ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Jurša, Mag. Diane jedan, mag. Bojana Muršič, Carmen Kozmus Ferrjan, Nik Prebil from 11.00 to 16.30, Aljaž Kovacič and Jani Möderndorfer. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 41. At the time of the day, this is for discussion on the response of the Ministry of Environment and the room of Mags. ANDREY VISAKA TO THE ENTERPRISE QUESTION OF THE BREAK GAME IN RELATING TO THE USE OF RESOURCES IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE NATIONAL SURVEILLANCE AND RESISTANCE PLAN. At its 29th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by the Minister of Environment and the Magi. Andrej Vizjak referred to Igor Pecko's question on how to spend resources under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I give the floor to Igor Pecko to complement the explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary will probably still be here. Let me explain what the main purpose of my proposal was to hold a debate today on the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The main reason is to identify the stage of the projects and how they are being implemented before the European Commission issues its first report; as we know, this is expected to be issued next month, according to European Commission forecasts. In the implementation of the plan, the Ministry of Environment and Space is still involved in the processes and implementation of most of the projects, even if we know that they must be based on the so-called green breakthrough. Let me recall, the European Commission has decided to introduce the so-called "do not harm" principle for national plans, which means that projects under the national plan should not harm environmental and climate objectives. This also affected the final preparation of our National Recovery and Resistance Plan in April 2021. The document has been prepared in such a way that at least 42% of the funds for the environment and climate change should be absorbed. In the LMŠ, we have already pointed out that the objective of future investments in the development of Slovenia should not be based only on infrastructure but also on investment in human resources and resources that will contribute to sustainable development; or, if I say a little differently, it is to pursue three objectives: economic, social and environmental. And on this last occasion, we have made very strong commitments: we have committed ourselves to reducing emissions emissions by 55 per cent by 2030 and we must become climate neutral by 2050. Unfortunately, Slovenia's Recovery and Resistance Plan is still linked to the development strategy adopted in 2015 and, given the new challenges identified, I am absolutely convinced that these strategies, or at least its frameworks, should be amended fairly. The questions I asked Mr. Minister were: Where do you think the reason or why we have spent so little money in the area of renewables is green energy? Slovenia only 5.7%, Finland for example 22,7, Croatia, our neighbour, 9,7, almost once more than us. What does Slovenia intend to do to achieve a higher use of green energy resources in the future? What larger projects have we already invested in under the Recovery and Resistance Plan? At the end of 2021 there was a significant rise in energy prices. With all these auctions and forecasts also valid for 2022, it is essential that we start investing in a low-carbon energy system. At the intervention of Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič on the implementation of the activities, a group of major European Commission researchers also pointed out that low-carbon investments could reduce energy prices in the long term. Indeed, it is not only the Ministry of Environment and Space that is responsible for the implementation of the plan, but, as I have already said, the Ministry of Environment and Space is still involved in the processes and implementation of a large number of projects arising from the plan. Given that the implementation of the national plan is both for the environment and climate change in the light of the commitments we have, I am very pleased that we will be able to discuss this issue today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to the Minister and by letter dated 14 March 2022, he excused his participation in this item on the agenda for international obligations. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Nik Prebil will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	Dear President, say good-bye first. Before I begin, I would like to invite you, President, see, this is not the debate that we Members have between us, this is a debate that allows citizens and citizens to learn what is going on in this area. And the fact that the Minister is not here, I understand that he has responsibilities, but please ensure that there is at least a State Secretary in this Chamber from this Ministry that we should talk to some Members. Because otherwise it's totally meaningless. Colleagues and colleagues! Well, hello to everyone who's following us! As it is said, I am pleased that this debate will be held, and I have hoped that there will also be stakeholders who are relevant in this area. Indeed, we are talking about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the projects involved. These plans are backed by strong financial support, which has not yet been seen in the European Union; plans that most Member States take extremely seriously, as they are aware that investments from these funds may be the difference between the exit or deepening of the crisis. Our government obviously doesn't understand that today. At the time of the covida-19 epidemic, Member States faced the closure of society, which also affected the daily functioning of an economy that had partially or, as we have seen, stopped completely. In order to promote the recovery and resilience of the economy of the European Union as a whole, the Fund has also been established. Slovenia has thus acquired the possibility of drawing EUR 5.2 billion, of course with very clear conditions. On this basis, it also developed first one, and then another, the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which was designed, as our current government, of course, knows well in secret; that is, in secret under the designation internal. Thus, non-governmental organisations from many areas, including the environment, could not be involved in the design that would contribute to a greener plan. In addition, it would be important for experts to give their opinion to help with solutions to the faster and more effective break-up of the Republic of Slovenia. The European Commission was very clear when adopting the criteria for this plan. Among them is one which has a strong significance of the whole project, this is a criterion called Dono Harm or Do Not Harm, which also affected that the Slovenian government had to fix the original plan. However, instead of being an incentive for more and better investment, our government has decided to reduce the use of funds. The final plan thus halted the use of €2.5 billion of the EUR 5.2 billion available, and these funds are being used too slowly and also among the worst in the European Union. Of course, this brings with it some problems. The biggest one will certainly be that, as long as the objectives of the projects we have set ourselves will not be achieved within a certain period of time, we will not receive any further funding for the implementation of the remainder, but the reason, of course, lies in poorly prepared projects, in that we are not thinking ahead, we are not thinking in the long run, and the same story is also in European cohesion policy. But let us now look at the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space, so green. Slovenia has decided between Member States to invest in clean energy in only 5.7%, which is much less than other Member States have claimed, which are already making strong subsidies in renewable energy sources, while Slovenia still has more subsidies for fossil fuels than to encourage renewable energy. Consequence: instead of creating renewable energy sources, we buy them from the Czech Republic! How, then, respectable, we represent not only work but also the full implementation of this plan and the achievement of the objectives of carbon neutrality. We have set these goals for ourselves — have we not? In the LMŠ we see the resources linked to the Recovery and Resistance Plan as extremely important. This should be to the fullest extent possible in order to achieve the criteria of climate objectives with independence from other Member States. In terms of climate change and, of course, the current crises are those that will have the most impact on the future, with which both state infrastructure and the economy are linked. In the LMŠ Group, we also believe that in the future we should update the vision for the development of Slovenia 2050 and the 2030 Development Strategy and prepare implementing acts in line with the European Union's set development and climate objectives and regularly monitor their implementation at government level. The strategy, therefore, is an integrated strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, but I speak from railways to road renovations, to the protection of the environment and our critical infrastructure, this strategy, respected, we have been missing for 30 years after what we see on our roads and in our environment. To conclude, respected, it is only an invitation to our government and, of course, those who are coming to undertake projects and reforms related to the Recovery and Resistance Plan across all ministries that they take projects very seriously after the necessary upgrades and, above all, make an effort to make these projects work that will help our greener and more digitally oriented Slovenia with a strengthened economy, of course, by the deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Dear fellows! Unfortunately, the government's representatives can't be greeted because they're not among us. President, I would really protest here, that we are talking about a matter where the government should be a representative – and I can understand that the minister is officially absent, but that is why we have secretaries of state. And I'm sorry, it just shows once again the attitude of the smiling regime of Janez Janša to the National Assembly and Parliament. President, I ask that you, as the first of the same, respond to this. Now I'm going to go on the subject, I hope the government representatives are listening to us. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	Comrade Koprivc, look, I'll react immediately, we'll give you five minutes back. What you have just said is a more procedural proposal to clarify the matter. It also seems to me that if the Minister does not attend a meeting which is intended for him or the Member State to question that this is disrespectful to the National Assembly, we have here an apology which has come to the National Assembly and is published in the system of 14.3. 2022. It has been said for quite a few days and we are all informed that the Minister will not be present at this meeting. At the same time, there was no proposal to move this point to another term when the Minister could come, so that the blame was on this salary, so to speak, on both sides. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] See, there was no proposal to move this, and this is the case: given that there was no proposal to move this point, we are just continuing it. As far as the proposal for the Minister to be replaced by the Secretary of State is concerned, this does not go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on sent questions, and the Minister must also take part in this debate, if anyone is already involved, otherwise the Rules of Procedure do not imply that a representative of the Government must be present. That's it. You have a point. Wait, buddy, let's just get this straight, there are still some procedural proposals to clear this up now and then we'll move on with the meeting. Procedural proposal, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	See, any President or President of the National Assembly may not allow himself to be discriminated against by the National Assembly. And, colleague Zorčič, this was your homework, not here to sell some bass about shared guilt. With regard to the answers to one of Mark Bandell's questions, the Secretary-General of the Government answered, if I recall correctly, so: good morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Don't hold it. This was not a procedural proposal. I'm a friend of Nick Prebil's.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr. Duck said it right. In view of the fact that an apology since 14, as you say, has been in the system, we could ensure from then on that the Minister has also waived his international obligations. See, the task of ministers – respected colleagues who come from the right there – is to answer this house in the first place. This house has placed them in this position and they are obliged to respond to this house; to all Members and Members of this National Assembly representing citizens and citizens. This is very disrespectful to us, and we have not seen this for the first time in this house, and I apologize, it is very difficult for Members to talk to themselves about matters that are of particular importance to our future. How we will spend money on recovery and resilience after the epidemic and now after the war in Ukraine, which also has consequences for the European Union. So, President, I understand that, of course, someone else answers the minister's question, and we have already seen it. We have no Members from the Ministry of All Information, and that is why someone is talking to us on the other side. I'm very sorry, but that's not the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	We've never seen this before. Comrade Koprivc, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	The President, look, I'm going to respond from the bench. I don't think there's anything, but there really is no need for you, President, to be acting as the attorney of this government. There's no need. The fact is, it is the first task of the Minister to respond to the invitation of the National Assembly. After all, the National Assembly voted on this government. And now looking for any excuses for that, I think it's unacceptable and unhygienic. And you are the first of the same in the National Assembly, and you should propose a change in the term when you saw and heard that there will be no minister. Once again, I would like to point out that it would be much better if there was no other way for someone else to come instead of a minister than it was practice, but no. The fact is, this national assembly is John Janša and his team out of line, and this is reflected in several points because they think they are all-powerful and can rule themselves. But they're wrong, they're wrong! 24. Four's coming. Thank you very much. And I ask you to stop such practices and to stop protecting such inappropriate activities or acts by the representatives of this government. Now I suggest we move on to content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	My colleagues, look, you have this apology on your desk for nine days, and you're working here today as if you've seen it for the first time, and you're all surprised. Please! Please! You had that apology on the table for nine days. Any one of you interested in this debate could propose moving this point. Nobody did it. Nobody [[…]] [[talk at the same time]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	President, this is your task and stop putting on others' responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Comrade Koprivec, I didn't give you my word. I didn't give you my word. [[advertising from the hall]] I mean, you're amazing! You've had this on your desk for nine days. You saw it for the first time today. How are you gonna argue if you don't read the documents that are in the system? You confirmed the agenda when you confirmed the agenda, it was already in the system, and today everyone's amazed, and it's obvious to me that I'm defending someone. [[…]] I'm not defending anyone! I think it is in itself disrespectful, but on the other hand we have received an apology for some international obligations. Of course, any explanation as to how difficult and justifiable these international obligations are to be left out of today’s session. But no matter what, you've been informed for nine days. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Lydia Divac Mirnik has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. While you can read the Members here, because we are not reading anything, the setting of the agenda is of course in your domain, you did it, indeed, we confirmed it the first day we started the meeting last week. But, in the meantime, you have learned that Mr. Minister will not be, because he has difficult things to do wherever he is and whatever he is doing there, where it is indisposable – I only hope that he does not buy any shares again, Petrol – and you would provide someone for him. If she could have sat here at the time, as was said to be the Director-General of the Cabinet of the President of the Government, then this is where the same lady could sit today. Or someone else that you would, of course, guarantee, because that's your job. That is why I find it extremely disrespectful, Mr President, that you treat Members in this way, even though you know it is the minister's task to answer to Members of Parliament. It's his only job here because he was put there because of this national council, and it seems to me that he's been strutting around about it now, you haven't seen it, and it's been in the system for so long. Look, if it doesn't work, just move on to this point, and the story's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal. My friend Moškrič has a procedural proposal and then [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only point out that the Minister has already answered this question, and some of you have voted to have a broader debate on it. And nothing else. All that is today is misleading, not questioning the minister or anything like that. It has been voted that a broader debate in the National Assembly will take place on this subject, and this will begin with a broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Colleague Sukič has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	Dear President, I ask for correction for a tapegram for the public; the Left has not supported the agenda. You can't say that we've all supported the agenda. So much so that it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	Okay, it's on a magnetogram. Comrade Duck, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	See, the outgoing President of the National Assembly, the College of the National Assembly confirms the agenda and you have proposed a agenda where I write: presentation of the opinion, Andrej Vizjak 5 minutes, Minister of Environment and Space Mag. Andrej Vizjak 30 minutes. In short, if anyone has to get a yellow card, if not a red card, it's you before you even open your mouth about the shared guilt. Just for a magnetogram and future Parliamentary historians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I'm sure they'll also consider this interpretation of your rules of procedure. Any other procedural proposals? No, no, no. I propose that we proceed with the debate, not least in the debate of Members and Members on the question of the Members, and once again let me say that the presence of ministers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is not mandatory. I believe you all have enough to say about this subject to make the debate more fruitful. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Procedural proposal, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	Comrade Zorčič, you forget, as a lawyer, that we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy and 110th Article of the Constitution ends with the “Government corresponds to the National Assembly”.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Absolutely! I don't forget that! Comrade Koprivc now has the word, we are going back to the positions of the members of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Minister not available [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	Unfortunately, he's not here. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Many times we can hear how many European funds we have already spent on various projects being praised by the rulings. They also boast that Slovenia is dedicated to a lot of limited resources and that we do not need to worry about the development of the country in various areas. What we can quickly find out is that I don't say it like that. For some time now, Slovenia has occupied the infamous cities of the lower half of the scale on the European Fund drawing performance scale, which has made it clear to us that we are all as successful as before. The SVRK or the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy has drawn up a National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which foresees projects, investments and investments that Slovenia would implement through grants and reimbursements. This plan, when presented by the Government, has made a number of criticisms and concerns, and the worst part is that the document has been prepared for a long time in complete secrecy, closed in government chambers, which is typical of these ministers. How important it is that we plan the use of European funds carefully and prudently and with all key stakeholders. The means that are and will be for us must be spent on projects and investments that will lead us to the goals that we have set ourselves and to which we also have commitments. One of the most important objectives is definitely a carbon-free society. We will have to achieve our goal if we are to survive as a society. The EU's refunds and grants to our country must be spent in such a way that the objectives set will be achieved as quickly as possible, and the consequences of the solutions that will lead us to the goals must be unfavourable for all our citizens and citizens. In the Group of Social Democrats, it is sad that we are on the country scale with regard to the effectiveness of EU spending and spending so low. Even though we like to compare ourselves with the most developed EU countries, we are, unfortunately, still far away. Countries that are exemplary and always like to compare with them are better at planning and spending EU funds than we are. Much better. The transition to a carbon - free society or so - called green transition can cost us all dearly if we do not respond properly and especially in a timely manner. The means for this purpose must be used wisely and prudently, and we must spend them to the greatest extent possible. This government and the next will still have to work hard and actively to ensure that the funds allocated to us are fully absorbed. Social Democrats have a plan, a team and a drive to improve and improve the current situation. Thank you very much. One more month, and it'll be over.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much, chairman. Good-bye! The fact that the Minister isn't here is exactly what it started. That's how it goes on. It began in secrecy, in conspiracy and continues as well. Of course, we will not learn from the Minister's mouth exactly what is happening to these projects. However, the leaders of the European Union have decided on a new Marshall plan or a European new deal. Accordingly, by 20 December 2020, countries had to send their national recovery and resilience plans to Brussels. As agreed, these plans should be digital and green. 37% of the funds must be earmarked for a green transition, 20% digital breakthrough. At the same time, the problems that the Commission has already pointed out in the past should be addressed. By the first Slovenian draft, the European Commission had been extremely critical, when projects were not evaluated at all, that there was no clear commitment to the objectives of the green and digital future, it drew attention to fragmentation and to the process, for example, that business projects were not even evalidated. Critics have shown that it is not clear what Slovenia wants: concrete reforms or only money. However, it was also noted that the Slovenian plan is mainly about municipal infrastructure management projects which, with the objectives agreed at EU level, do not have any common point. In other words, in Brussels they recognised that the Government was unable to draw up a development plan. They even recognized that she had framed them with a major pre-election program. But a much bigger problem than the first, not too happy draft is that they did not present reform ideas from the Chernobyl Service to the Slovenian public. Research institutions, development agencies, NGOs, municipalities, trade unions and employers' organisations have not received or been involved in their design despite requests from these documents. The secret bureaucratic engagement of the country's development breakthrough means that the Chernachevs have already collected projects from individual ministries with some kind of survey, and they have themselves sought to find justification that these projects are green, digital and take into account the criticisms of the European Commission. For railways, public passenger transport and alternative fuels, the Government has foreseen €285 million under the NNOO, while at the same time more than €800 million in investment in roads. Otherwise, it is true that not all these projects will be fully financed from the Recovery Fund, but also from other funds, 430 million euros will come from the NNOO and 370 million from other sources. However, this does not change the fact that the Government understands the green transition as investments in asphalt, where it has therefore intended to confuse EUR 800 million, eight times more than it has planned for long-term care. The label was not withdrawn from the document until 24 February last year. Of course, not because the government would have decided that it was finally time for public debate, but only because the document could no longer be hidden because it had been publicly published by the media. Of course, a few billion resources will depend on successful planning for spending in hospitals, maintaining employment, addressing the social distress of those who have landed on the road because of the crisis, solving the housing problem of young people who have lost their lives and facing an environmental crisis that threatens to break down essential natural systems. Planning the use of these funds is therefore, to the greatest extent possible, a matter of public interest concerning all citizens and not a private matter of the SDS party members, as of course today's debate should be a matter of public interest and not merely a private business of the SDS party. But let's leave. This government is fortunately saying good-bye; what it has done has failed. Let me focus on the green pass. In Levica, if they had a decisive impact on the planning of NNOO spending, they would have acted in a diametrically different way. We would propose solutions for a socially fair green transition of 37% of the funds, as requested by the European Commission. Climate change requires a swift and fair transition to low-carbon transport. The modernised rail network in connection with other forms of public passenger transport must be the backbone of mobility in space. It should be ensured that public passenger transport becomes time-optimal and cost-effective. Since costs should not be fully passed on to end-users and users, a shift in public passenger transport development policy by establishing non-profit public passenger transport in state or municipal ownership would be necessary. At the same time, efforts should be made to change spatial urban and landscape planning towards decentralisation, which would reduce the need for daily migration in the future. In Levica, we believe that NNOO should encourage the transition to public passenger transport by increasing accessibility, tactical timetables, increasing frequency, modernising public transport assets, setting up a transport network, and combining all forms of public transport. Public companies should be set up to provide affordable and efficient urban, inter-national and regional passenger transport and to withdraw multi-national concessions. Greater connectivity and optimization or so-called split modals should be ensured. And, of course, the expansion of the Ljubljana bypass and other expansions of existing motorways and fast roads and so on and so on should be stopped. Particular attention should be paid to a fair climate transition, as the environmental crisis threatens with an imminent climate crisis. The consequences of climate change on our lives are already quite obvious. We are increasingly threatened by extreme weather events, floods, droughts, heat waves. Slovenia is warming up twice as fast as the global average, as seen in the increasing frequency of extreme weather events that caused more than €700 million of damage in agriculture, forestry and the economy only between 2014 and 2018. Left's responses under the NNOO would be directed towards 2030, which means that during the coming two governments greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 60% compared to 2005, with the climate transition being fair. This means, on the one hand, that the burden of transition must be borne in the first place by those who have benefited the most from the existing capitalist model in the past and the least of the consequences left by the existing system poor and powerless at its margins. On the other hand, this means that we must not repeat the mistakes of past generations and solve the climate crisis through measures that will burden generations with their side effects in the decades and centuries to come. In the framework of the NNOO, the fight against global warming should be tackled by climate law, clearly defined targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the overall climate policy framework, by means of decision-making mechanisms and responsibilities to achieve the objectives and safeguards in the event of their failure, by means of means to involve the public in the adoption and implementation of measures, by providing financial resources and by requiring the fairness of natural measures. Part of the NNOO funding should be part of the 2% GDP financial framework to combat climate change, one of which would be earmarked for the carbon fund and the other for long-term adaptation. A fair transition should therefore be ensured within the NNOO for communities most dependent on the use of fossil fuels today. And so on. In short, in the left hand side, NNOO would actually pursue the objectives of a fair green transition that they have set as a priority in Brussels, and not like this government, which is both fair and confusing, without a clear commitment to the objectives of a green and digital future, to recruit fragmented projects that do not have much to do with the real green transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the question raised by Member Igor Peck regarding the use of resources under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which the Member has put to the Minister of Environment and the Magi area. Andre Vissiak, you have to give a few numbers. By the end of 2026, the recovery and resilience plan allows us to absorb a total of €2.5 billion, of which €1.8 billion is a grant for the investments of the country, municipalities and businesses. The Recovery and Resistance Plan sets out very concretely which projects we will implement and when time plans for reforms and investments are set. More specifically, there are 83 measures and 33 reforms and 50 investment areas divided into four development areas: first green transition, second digital transformation, third smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and health and fourth social security. A total of 209 milestones and targets should be reached by the end of 2026 at the latest. In accordance with the Regulation establishing the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, Member States must ensure that, in their recovery and resilience plans, at least 37 % of the available funds and 20% of the available funds are allocated to achieve the Digital Goals. The Slovenian Recovery and Resistance Plan foresees 42.45% of green targets and 21.46% of digital targets. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we share the view that the recovery and resilience plan will encourage a green and digital transition. Investments in environmental, transport, energy, education, health, social and other infrastructure will also be important, which can contribute significantly to economic growth in the coming years, consistent with the objectives of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. We are confident that with the Recovery and Resistance Plan we are following all these prescribed goals. In our vicinity we are witnessing Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, which has well mixed globalisation patterns of free movement of goods and services. By implementing the reforms of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, we will facilitate the implementation of investments to promote the use of renewable energy sources; for example, the remote heating system, the production of electricity from renewable energy sources such as geothermal energy and, of course, hydropower. The implementation of the reforms of the Recovery and Resistance Plan will also be important for strengthening the electricity distribution network and for improving the basic and energy productivity of the economy. In New Slovenia we are committed to sustainable mobility. The Recovery and Resistance Plan highlights the promotion of public passenger transport, the use of alternative fuels in transport and investment in transport infrastructure, environmentally friendly, especially rail. We are aware that we urgently need a responsible green pass. Investment for renewable energy sources and the transition to a carbon-free society are needed here and now. There's probably no man who wouldn't agree to that. The task of all stakeholders is to prepare projects professionally and cost-effectively. Of course, there is little time, so we agree that certain projects need to be accelerated in implementation. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe in our ministers, who are and will do everything in their departments to get the projects implemented in a professional, quality and time frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! Evidence that knowledge of the urgency of planned action in the economic and social sphere has also prevailed in the heads of the European Summit is a decisive Plan for the Recovery and Resistance of the Member States of the European Union. The plan aims to get out of the climate and pandemic crisis and lay new foundations for a sustainable Europe. It is worth €1.824.3 billion and consists of a seven-year budget and a temporary budget for the recovery of €750 billion. Slovenia has €10.2 billion earmarked for non-refundable and repayable funds. This money actually allows Slovenia to deal effectively with the three biggest long-term challenges; the social inclusion of all layers, the strengthening of knowledge and health and care for the elderly, green transformation and economic and social development that new technologies provide. In order to succeed in these areas, however, it is imperative to change the approach and tools thoroughly. A good hand and a cup of concrete won't be enough. The main tool must become knowledge, which is a fundamental condition for smart future planning. Knowledge must also be domestic, because home knowledge is the one that separates the masters from the servants in Slovenia today. This is the answer to dilemmas, where to invest more, in knowledge or walls, but the best of course is a healthy balance. In Europe, there is also a silent financial revolution in addition to the bold and resilient Plan for Recovery and Resistance. The Taxonomy Regulation adopted by the European Union will gradually introduce the biggest changes in banking since we know it. Taxonomy will mark the coming decade firmly; in the business world, profit and return will suddenly be no longer the main driving force of success, but it will be a green transformation. Everything that will be defined as sustainable will become desirable in the financial world and the tax system will, hopefully, also support this trend. In Slovenia, the Slovenian government is still asleep and still dreaming of the long-standing beliefs and orientations, with all the movements and importance of the aid. It still swears on free-market neo-capitalism and globalisation, which has pushed Slovenia into an independent position. Typical evidence that the government is planning the future irresponsiblely and without a systematic approach is the preparation and implementation of the Government's Recovery and Resistance Plan. For example, the original draft, which was given to a short public debate at the beginning of 2021, was entirely amateur material, without a vision and without taking into account EU guidelines. The plan, which was later substantially amended and supplemented and, fortunately, endorsed by the European Commission in July 2021, was prepared by the Government in secret, far from the eyes of the general and professional public. As a result, the adoption of the plan is still based on a lot of ad hoc solutions and on a list of some preferences collected in principle from the bottom up and the distribution of candy, not on long-term strategies and programmes that would really ensure a green and development breakthrough. As well as such a plan as the data show and today's debate, the Government or Slovenia is unable to implement satisfactorily. At the top of the line, it is not reasonable to draw up, together with the professional elite, complete development projects, including in the field of energy financing and all knowledge, and to draw up appropriate systemic practices. However, a real breakthrough would require additional resources, which should not be obtained through unreasonable debt, as the current government alone knows and can do. We also offered a number of solutions in the SAB. For example, the proposal for a budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure, which was rejected in 2020 in this house. By creating an infrastructure fund, we could direct the savings of our people who are now unproductively located in Slovenian banks, and these are mostly foreign-owned and thus do not serve anything. It's a lot of money, 25 billion. By issuing such an infrastructure bond, we could offer our citizens a return that they do not achieve with interest on deposits. Half the EU members have already done so. Infrastructural investments have been separated into a special fund and thus excluded from the integrated budget and thus avoided the limits of the fiscal rule. In order to finance the costs of climate change or decarbonisation, the German Minister of Economy also proposed so-called civil bonds, whose beauty is precisely in the absence of public debt statistics. Although we have a vision and development strategy in Slovenia by 2030, both documents are based more on beautiful wishes than on tangible strategies and programmes, how to actually do this. In general, these documents do not foresee, as is the custom for this government, some of the stable sources of funding needed to carry out the development strategies and major movements that are taking place in the future of the world in the light of the climate and pandemic crisis. The implementation of progressive reforms also requires a top team, but not just a few local party enthusiasts. The most capable experts should be hired and given full political support. This is also a lesson for Slovenia, a lesson to follow. At the moment, the government with the SDS party at the summit is obviously unable to offer Slovenia an appropriate development programme, but leads us to the spiral of debt. Every time Janez Janša’s government leaves Slovenia in a disastrous financial situation with irresponsible rule. This time, too, she created an enormous financial debt. In two years, Slovenia has been in charge of an additional EUR 13 billion, and only half of it has gone to deal with the consequences of the co-existence crisis, which of course everyone, and I am sure everyone else, we support. However, we do not support the remaining half of the funds spent on candy and candymakers and pre-election buying of voters, which at the same time undermine the situation of citizens, including pensioners, due to excessive indebtedness and overexpenditure. In the SAB party, we have already shown that we know how to do what is necessary in times of hardship and crisis, and you can trust us that this time in the new government we will also prevent the financial disaster that this government is leading us towards. I am confident that, with partners in the KUL coalition and in cooperation with the Movement of Freedom, we will form a strong left-wing government that will lead Slovenia back to the right path, normalisation and democratisation, and also towards a green and developmental breakthrough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan will certainly be a good start for the green transition. The success of the objective will be demonstrated by time, in particular the mid-term evaluation of the implementation of reforms and investments. It is also difficult to predict the impact of the pandemic on financial markets and on the environment and climate change, as well as the current situation in which the world is located. It is crucial for the success of the implementation of the plan to be carried out in synergy with other funds and funds. Our planned actions and reforms are in line with the European Commission's recent recommendations for Slovenia. The next development areas, which together contribute 43.45% to the green targets, have been included in the preparation of the recovery and resilience plan, 20.05% to achieve digital objectives. The development components of the green transition are renewable energy sources and efficient use of energy in the economy: sustainable renovation of buildings, a clean and secure environment, sustainable mobility and a circular economy, efficient use of resources. Digital transformation components are digital transformation of the economy and digital transformation of the public sector and public administration. The development area: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth includes research, development and innovation components: increasing productivity, a friendly business environment for investors, the labour market, measures to reduce the impact of negative structural trends, transforming Slovenian tourism and investment in infrastructure in the area of tourism and cultural heritage. Strengthening competences, in particular digital and those required by new professions and effective public institutions. The development components of health and social security are health, social security and long-term care and housing policy. In doing so, I would like to make it clear that the projects proposed are important for the recovery of our economy. They address the challenges of climate change and are key to resolving our specific gaps. With the proposed measures and reforms, we will achieve multiple positive effects on many environmental policies, such as flood safety measures, we will also contribute to the conservation of biodiversity, drought prevention, protection of water resources, groundwater enrichment and the stabilisation of high waters. Since this is an extremely cross-sectoral challenge, a systemic approach is needed. In doing so, we must be guided by already adopted strategies, such as energy and climate plans. In the future, it would be important to work intensively on policy-making to increase raw and energy efficiency and on financial support to attract private resources at all levels. Let me conclude that we are ambitious about climate and environmental objectives in Slovenia. However, sometimes a large number of unconnected stakeholders make it more difficult for us to move towards a more sustainable and low-carbon society. This challenge will also need to be addressed in the future for a successful green transition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the resources for recovery and resilience are well negotiated, adequate and that spending is effective, especially much more serious, and in the interests of the country, municipalities and businesses, as we have been accustomed to so far to draw on the European funds of the governments so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. One more nice hello to everyone. Colleagues and colleagues! As it is said, this debate today is of paramount importance. I am pleased that the issue has been voted on so that we can discuss the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is important for the future of Slovenia and also for the European Union as such. I wanted to ask the Minister today what he had already asked my colleague Pecek to explain why, given the traffic light that the European Commission regularly updates, we are once again among the worst members of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, and unfortunately there is no one else to answer that question. So I'm going to discuss what I think about the last one and where I can make things better. In the LMŠ we certainly support development and we want this development to be among the best, that it is as effective as possible and that is why our calls are now and also our calls before the plan has been prepared. Remember, in the opposition, we requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where I must say that we had a constructive debate about how the fighting was taken into account then, of course, little. But still. For all the projects that are included in the Slovenian plan under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there are, of course, some that are controversial, and I will now focus solely on the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Many stakeholders warn, in particular those who were not included in this plan, that it was accepted in secret, but we have warned that several projects, which are part of the development of the environment, are interfering with nature and are in fact in violation of this principle of "do not harm", which is one of the most important frameworks of the Recovery and Resistance Plan and the Green Breakdown Frameworks. And Mr Pecek, Mrs Zabret, and ourselves a month ago, a little less, we have submitted a written question to the Government from the framework of a means of recovery and resilience, today this answer has also come and states the following. In order to publish by the end of January 2022 two calls under the Recovery and Resistance Plan, two public calls by the Ministry of Environment and Space, i.e. the decommissioning and cleaning of waste water and investment in water resources, and further states that no financing contract has been signed under these calls. And it is precisely, respectable, that nature-protection organisations warn that these two projects are controversial in certain respects. Climate Action Network is also a European monitoring organisation and also examines these European funds for recovery and resilience in terms of environmental and climate damage, notes that Slovenia's plan lacks investment in renewable energy sources and some potentially harmful projects for the environment, and has also been pointed out, as has been said, in Slovenian NGOs. Why is that, I do not know, but I would like this matter to be corrected as far as possible. Well, the second part that I read – so that no funding contract has been signed yet – that means that these projects will be implemented just after a while, it will not be tomorrow – opens to me a key question of when, in fact, in Slovenia, we can apply for that next tranche, if I may say so, or when we will be freed of the following funds, given that all programmes that are in the context of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan need to be completed by 2026 in accordance with the regulation that was adopted. Because, as it is said, a relatively non-ambitious plan still has some investments that are not targeted in the future, but we have what we have, and we are trying to solve as much as possible, which is why I would be interested – in fact I will not get an answer to this – why these projects were prepared so badly that they are not being implemented today, but in fact we are only signing a few things and we know that these things will take a long time. Mr Doblekar said earlier in his position that drawing is now much better in terms of European cohesion policy, but only one thing would he point out is that the signed contracts and certain cooperation intentions have not yet been implemented. I see posters, but now the pre-election campaign starts, the parties of the current coalition are making a big announcement: this is what we're building, this is what we're building. I don't know, I'd like to see, say, one home for the elderly who's already building this moment, not just what's signed. And the same thing is, nothing is built yet, things are signed, but whether they will be our key issue by 2023, because if we don't have the key projects implemented by then, we won't get the funding for the further projects we have to do. This is what we want to warn you in the opposition. While we are still talking about the environment ministry, it is important to say that in the planned anti-floating projects that the Ministry includes under this plan, we are preventing further environmental degradation. I fully understand that we need to strengthen flood security, and I am very committed to it in the area of the Lower Savinja Valley where I was elected, and in the government of Marjana Šarca we have started this project, we have provided resources and it is right that it continues as well. But across Slovenia we cannot build dry retainers and just concrete rivers, perhaps even a more modern and sustainable development-oriented solution should be found. That's how I'd like these things to be defined by the Ministry, but as a matter of fact, it can't. Another thing that will also have an impact on the European Union's Recovery and Resistance Plan and further financial structure is the current war in Ukraine. We have committed ourselves, as well as the European Union, to reduce oil, gas and coal imports from Russia and to become energy independent of foreign countries as the Union. This is a purely political, not an economic reason, that is to be said. In fact, with the billions that we're giving by buying these energies, we're indirectly financing this Russian aggression. Of course, I agree that this must be prevented and sanctions made more effective than they have been so far. The Union's plan is ambitious, by 2027 we will have to work on this too. And even now it is said that funds that will not be spent under the Recovery and Resistance Plan will go just to ensure that. Again, we will miss the opportunity to carry out projects in Slovenia that are linked to a green breakthrough and, finally, to digitisation. I do not want to be just critical and pessimistic, but we these numbers that we are witnessing to them, and all that comes from abroad, do not arouse some very large moral ambition that these things will be carried out as necessary, and in particular carried out to the point of being able to obtain the funds that Slovenia badly needs, even in due time. That's what I'm getting at. In his reply to the Member of Parliament's question, he "sold bellies", as we say to young people, that he is not entirely responsible for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and that he is responsible at the Ministry of Finance for the SVRK, which confirmed the plan. Let me make it clear here for the magnetogram that it is the responsibility of the whole government; the government is the one that has adopted the Recovery and Resistance Plan; all ministries are involved or should at least participate. Final management – yes, it is at the Ministry of Finance, of course, because it is about using funds. Therefore, I am also concerned that the ministries in this area are not harmonised. The Minister of Finance said in one of the interviews that "in fact today he cannot predict the amount that will be spent by that deadline. Indeed, it is not clear how much or what objectives will be achieved by the submission of the application at all." But, Your Honor, this is crucial! We need to know where we are and what we will achieve when we file a request for the following funds. Or we surrender to fate and wait: if it is, it will be, if it is not, it will not be. This is not a way for me to work economically with a country and with European funds that help us go into a better future. Not only for the environment, but also for rail infrastructure and sustainable mobility. Here I refer to what I have said in my view that we have no strategy in the country for the past 30 years, or at least it is not good how we will develop the country in the future. One government is building roads, the next one is putting them into railways, the next one remembers that where the railway is now, it will build an additional lane of roads, and some additional passage, and what we cover with one end and another, and we do not have one goal in front of us. And what we have as a result – that everything is built just like that, on the average, without some clear plans, we are getting traffic jams, with the car you come three times faster than with the train, so that's exactly the opposite of what the Slovenians are also committed to when we enter the European Union. [[…]] And all of you, respectable! All: left, right, middle, anyone we stress that these things are important for the development of Slovenia. But I don't understand why the government won't take that into account when the opposition suggests it. I'll finish here. I believe that you will add a number of things to my colleague Pecek and Mr Lenart, who are well acquainted with this financial structure. However, I would like, as I pointed out in the conclusion of my position, to take the matter a little more seriously, starting with the Government's representatives attending the National Assembly meeting being present when we consider such an important subject that our calls are taken seriously and that our projects are accelerated and, if necessary, repaired or upgraded to this level so that we can also fully draw on the resources of the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not surprised that the minister isn't, because this government, of course, cleans up, spends its pennies, sets up its staff, not necessarily appropriate. The Minister will obviously place the head of his cabinet on an agency that will have over 200 million worth of low- and medium-level radioactive waste through the construction of the warehouse. There's a chance Minister Dickaucic will bless himself and his partner for the notaries. What else? UKC Maribor will obviously be the party hospital SDS warring, led by some slightly aged gentlemen and so on. And this will have to be done in some way of cleansing and rejuvenating the staff, I hope, under the next government. If I touch the NOO, I myself was the holder of that extraordinary session. Perhaps I have been most actively involved in the preparation of an alternative NOO, which the Government has not even looked at. Minister Chernač is so scrupulous that what's on so many pages? In doing so, he silently stated that one so-called programming is financial, substantive, while the other is those shekels and sheets which are just shared by the SVRK and the ministries involved and other stakeholders perform, write and deliver to Brussels, as they call themselves. On 1 May, we will become a full-year member of the EU, and we still often act almost as if we are not an EU member. This area has not been brighter, better, even under any previous governments, but, of course, according to the nature of this government, some catastrophicity has been achieved. Personally, I think that we should set ourselves a goal and say that Slovenia will, as soon as possible, wage a net wager in the European budget in question, and we will be proud of it, just as the proud Irish who fought it. Now those who do not understand that in this way you will get more money, more money, better GDP, better quality of life through some provinces, I do not think they should run for office or a Member, let alone deal with these activities! There's another story, you know, but green is smart. There's no way to separate and think separately. We are also prisoners of a sectoral division, then a party division comes here, some of you have already mentioned a Belarusian colleague from NSI. Yesterday I was on the ground, Kočevje and Ribnica and those places, all full of these posters my colleague Koražija said they resembled some gay pop gangs more than ministers. Let's stop! But since the ministers weren't there on the road, there were contractors on the road. And a little humble for all of us together. We know that, in fact, infrastructure is being placed in the space with us very slowly, and many of these things have started under Cerar's government or earlier; in short, the world has not started with each one of us and will not actually end. One of the key problems we have is what little Nick has pointed out, some such petty thinking about these matters. You know, that's the policy that's going to make a difference, and then he's going to brag. You know, with this kind of policy in the time of fat cows, one gets rich, and let's say, 19 remains dry; but in the time that we live now, maybe two, and 50 remain dry. That's not politics. You know, politics starts when you go beyond your partisanism. And if you want to go to the country, which I'm supposed to go to for the last 30 years, you need statesmen. We don't even have that. In most cases we fall here as tourists and the only long-term policies of Pahor and Janša cannot be an example to us. I recall that 2014–2018 term when I was three years old with a tumbal about a smart specialisation strategy, also because my friends in Brussels laughed at what Slovenia sent there, that then Zdravc realized little about the possibility of an important document – but he did not realize that it was necessary to write it properly. But you know, traffic lights up and down, no one will think for us and for us. We should work this green-smart transition in a way that, with less material, less energy, significantly more intelligence to work products and services that will have a relatively much higher added value. As I have said many times before, if you are going to the last Umar report on productivity, but Umar? The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development is Think Tank of every government, it says very clearly that if we look together our NNOO, cohesion 2021-2027, is in the field of smart transition – that is less or less, more or less it is actually this also of course packaged green and digital, worse than Slovenia only Czech Republic, which has a slightly related populist government, Malta and Cyprus. That's a fact. That's a fact written down by the government office! At the same time, I will reiterate that among those companies that have the productivity that we would need and what we want, only 9% of high-tech companies. And we have this third term of office, the eighth year of the Ministry, which should deal with economic development and technology. Not with, Marka Bandelli would say something already, "the rubber elastic masks" and – what do you mean? – "golfs for the price of passats", but you know. That is why, of course, you have to raise people who will understand such things. One activity here is, of course, Green, which I love you green. In this green that I love you green, you also have to think a little bit about where you're producing and how much you're going around people or not. I was just listening to a radio show yesterday when I was on the field. The panels are relatively cheap, they come from China, and then these local economies are probably too expensive for the final customer or, if you want, the energy sector hangs up. In the meantime, in the language of the people, we are told, the guest dies, which is biotically good, but sometimes often. But, you know, I look at the shadow side of Styria's wine road, where every Austrian municipality has almost a heating problem arranged in a way that is just to burn chopsticks with appropriate filters and thus warm up what we call public administration, state administration. And of course, this is how farmers shoot wildly, and at the same time, the economy produces these ovens, in their own words, do not produce them elsewhere in the world. These are some things you need to think about when you think about things. But with us, of course, certain parts of Slovenia are lagging behind in infrastructure and I will not say now that we must not build this basic infrastructure. [[…]] In Prekmurje, we had a water supply problem, if you remember, with water supply, and the congregations were still fighting a little. We like to talk about a multiplier, but in fact we forget how to think together about these things. If I tell you this, of course I'm for the third development axis, but if we're going to throw money at the fact that they're going to come from my birthland and from Koroška and where people came to Ljubljana and on Friday as soon as possible to whips, omits, grandmothers to the south, then we haven't achieved anything. We've been scattering money that, I don't know, my grandson's generation will be paying off their children until at least 2081, when the last half-billion sovereign debt falls. These are some stories, because I have to say, frankly, that even in the KUL coalition, I don't have much of an audience where I used to be, which I'm now in. There will have to be somehow beyond this, pre-eminently a little general place to roll, and here there will have to be somehow by way of Baron Munich's grip on the ears and look at who has been working on these matters, who understands these things, and who will form some team that will seriously start to deal with it. Of course, I have no illusions that there will be no sores here, that what will not happen will not happen, for example, in neighbouring Croatia, when the referee said that one who served fine money in some software in this area will no longer serve these money. Of course, they immediately threatened her with blood flow and so on. And, of course, Austria will also need to think more about the regional grapes of the economy. I'm basically sad about the letter! [[...]] How long has it been? For more than 15 years, when I was a guest of the Chamber of Commerce of Burgenland, Gradistian; one of the smaller parts of Austria, their Chamber of Commerce was against our stand and look! Also in the way of grapes and craftsmen and medium-sized enterprises and so on. And you're gonna have to know how to think about these things. Think also of the related overall programming of development finance. From NOO, through cohesion, through what we have in the state budget. There is little open question as to how and with NOO and cohesion in the light of the madness that Putin is doing in Ukraine, because until recently there are some information, serious, from Brussels they have somehow been cemented enough that NOOs are no longer possible to negotiate there to correct as much as can be corrected, as Janša's government has concreted, if so expressed, more space is essentially on cohesion. And those who have ever done cohesion projects know that, although we often take them as few as some ugly bureaucrats, DGs are, in some way, the European Union's ministry, if I may say so, so empathetic and insightful, that it is possible to annex projects meaningfully and in a similar way as we do at a budget meeting, to move some money, if one can see that some things are not going forward, into some other more meaningful things. And we, the next government, will face this difficult reprogramming, which will be challenging, which will also require a stronger team of our officials in Brussels who understand these things, because these stories are essentially happening at a higher EU medium level of bureaucracy. But you know that we will not then be locked up when it is seen in the budget, yes, the representation position in Brussels is too high, and then the Slovenian media will start beating this fat and cheerfully, because we are an unthinking society, what we really are. We must not forget, of course, that a good part, in particular infrastructure projects, is being implemented at a local level, where financial participation must also be involved, and we have accepted or accepted some income leave that will turn 700 million holes probably in 2022-2025, and this will be a problem; the problem was already for cohesion 2021-2027, from where the local communities will actually take their financial contribution. One problem that's a constant. I recall that when I was at the hearing – now for quite some time the former European Commissioner – I was reminded of this, because if we give Ljubljana and a couple of municipalities already, Maribor does not actually have the people who would run these projects in the medium, long term; in short, the stronger SVRK teams, which must become some serious ministry, not just a shifter in the field. One story, which is half-accidented, including regional development agencies that are not allowed to exist for their own wages, gets caught up in projects. Here we will need to find something that we sometimes called passive funding in science; if we want to have this intermediator, we also need to find budget pennies for wages, as I would say, and even this colloquial, that vegans and vegetarians should forgive me, in the way of that deerback that you're spraying with bacon, with people who can do it. A lot of these people are younger people, who for some decades have been living somehow on European projects also because it is logical: few European projects, that you will not have too good a salary in Slovenia, but that you will be able to make an average wage or not. It seems to me that some thought is needed here too, because it's some expertise that college doesn't give you, you learn through some of the projects that you've been thrown into. I have this experience myself, the first year of the day, you don't even know what you're talking about in Brussels, even if you're a student, and then we often forget some people who go through this ibungo; or else you'll give another authority to someone who has a real party book in absolutely excessive shoes. This is some meritocratic area, this is an area for which you have to recruit people, as well as for statesmen who will be able to think about the country and its infrastructure spatial development beyond some of the partisan interests from which villages or towns I belong. This is some difficult task that awaits us. This is some difficult task that we have to do in the next two mandates, I hope that in the left- centred government, the Slovenian right may finally be at war or the conservative side that we do not actually have at the moment. We've got Jansze's eyelashes, and we've got satellites. Maybe I'll make one conservative client when I get old. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. First of all, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief, but only a quick response, given what has been said or expressed so far, in some way in the views of the sent groups. As regards the well-negotiated resources under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, I think it is essential to stress the key. We had 5.2 billion at our disposal, and our plan contains 2.5 of these 1.8 non-refundable and 700 million in loans. Now, if this is well negotiated, then I can really ask myself what we are looking at or how we are looking at numbers. As for time and time components. A key question, which is, what has also been highlighted, the issue of taxonomy or sequence, or, if I say simplistic, the step-by-step classification of border controls and targets. Indeed, the plan has been adopted for three years, until 2024, with the possibility of pumping in the period N+2, as we would like to say for all these European projects, even for the multi-annual financial framework being the same, but here the NNOO is one significant difference and this difference is due to how certain tranches of money will be paid. In fact, speed will be crucial and important here, because it will be very difficult to report the project or start implementation, to implement the project in 2025 or 2026 and then to rely on money from the European Commission or the European Commission's approval of the project. In fact, the supervision of the implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Fund will be under the responsibility of the European Commission. This is a very clear taxonomy, as I have already said, and the fact is that the European Parliament can call on the European Commission every two months to report to the relevant Parliamentary Committee on the situation of recovery and how successful individual Member States are in implementing the objectives and milestones set. That's the key. From this, the question which was essentially raised to the Minister, on my part, is also crucial: at what stage or how quickly can we follow the assessments of the European Commission? It's not an interrogation. In no case did I picture today's debate as a hearing of the Minister. Far from it. It is also true that the Ministry of Environment and Space is not entirely responsible for the implementation of the whole plan, but colleague Doblekar said well, it is inter-departmental cooperation and the Ministry of Environment and Space has the greatest role to play in this regard. It is the issue of consents and permits, it is cross-sectoral or intersectoral cooperation, and here the Ministry of Environment and Space, if I say a little more domestically, can do the most. So much possible Aha, another thing about the finality of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, or how many of these projects that are now in the program are really concrete, as Dr. Duck says. [[…]] The fact is that the current position of the European Commission – or at least the current position of the European Commission was in February, when we have not yet witnessed the problems that have arisen between Russia and Ukraine – is that reprogramming will not be possible or, if I say simplified, projects will not be complemented unless certain changes are admissible and possible if this is already indicated in advance within a specific component. And in this case, it's only one case where this could happen. This is an example of the hydropower plant Mokrica and the linkage to the ability to accumulate energy from renewable sources if renewable energy sources fail to achieve sufficient effects. This was also the reason why I asked Minister Visiak about renewable sources. I am well aware, however, that renewable resources or energy fall within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and that the Ministry of Infrastructure will also be the one who will make the final decision whether anything will change in the field of energy, as far as EVE and HE Mokrice are concerned, as I said earlier. That's it, then later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. As Mr Peček has already mentioned, the question put forward was, of course, very much put on the table by the Minister for Environment and Space. Of course, the Minister of the Environment and Space has been authorised in his field and he has also made it clear in his reply that he will answer the question raised by the Member State concerning the Recovery and Resistance Plan only from his area, not from the whole, but also from the work that Minister Cernač and Minister of Infrastructure could or could answer. I believe that this was a question of the delegation and also a request for an additional broader debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and well-intentioned. But now that I have been able to see in my views and in some debates, this broader debate has already been slightly misused and is somehow already an instrument for pre-election activity. We could have already heard what was already proposed and imposed. Of course, there have also been a lot of different observations that the Minister of Environment and Space is not with us today, which the President of the National Assembly has explained well, and all Members and Members have been informed that the Minister is rightly absent due to outstanding matters. And I believe that the Minister would be very pleased with us, as he has always been, and he has always been very specific and correct in answering all the questions. These are questions from the Members, or a bunch of different interpretations, he's always been with us and he's always spent all the time and he's always answered everything. So here I really don't see any difficulty in working from such a family, and that somehow, I would say, is abusing this widespread debate on Mr Pecko's question, which I do appreciate very much, for such purposes. I have to say, when I heard that this debate then spread to different areas, I almost heard a lot about the Minister for Environment and Space, but the matter is really wide open and it concerns somehow the whole Recovery and Resistance Plan, that is, for all areas. I think that this is somehow not the case, but that we are extending some debate to all sorts of areas if the question of the mission was specifically addressed to the Minister for Environment and Space. By the way, when we heard from even one of the Members that the Minister in reply, as he said, responded with the pumpkins or that he was pushing the pumpkins in his reply, I have to tell him that it is not so, of course. The Minister is in his reply – perhaps this Member or someone else has not listened to this reply from Minister Visiak to the Member of Parliament's question, or it has been said maliciously. Therefore, I think it would be good for some of those who think that this answer was that they were pumpkins and so on, that this answer was not professional and that it was not in place, to somehow sum up the response of Minister Visiak, that you could all hear him again and that everyone accompanying this meeting today will also hear him, so that we would not be here in the absence of a minister who is rightly absent and also announced in time that he was absent, saying some things that are somehow out of place. In his reply, the Minister was very clear and actually touched on the whole of his field, but in a few things he also touched areas that did not specifically concern him. I'm just gonna quote his answer and the real mag. Andrej Vizjak said in reply to a question by the Member on the Recovery and Resistance Plan from the area covered by the Minister of the Environment, quote: “Thank you, honourable Member, for your question. Although I am not entirely responsible for the Recovery and Resistance Plan, it was created by the Government of Development and European Cohesion Policy and managed by the Ministry of Finance.” Before I go any further, I would really like to listen carefully to this answer and try to find these pumpkins inside, and then you can comment on them. I continue: "But I can gladly tell you about our environmental work, which weighs €156.2 million in grants and €380 million in repayments. It aims to reduce environmental impacts by investing in waste water extraction and treatment systems, promoting adaptation to environmental impacts and climate change by promoting rational water use, investing in water supply systems and supporting digital transformation. In particular, here I will highlight the EMOP project and increase resilience to investment in prevention or protection against floods and reptiles. So when you talk about pumping, we have already activated one of the first funds, and in January we issued a call for water and waste water treatment systems, which have never been co-financed by state resources in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in these smaller water pipelines and in smaller waste water treatment systems. The invitation to tender shall be open from 11 January. We have bid about €50 million each, a total of just over €100 million. It is an attractive project, which is now being speeded up by the municipalities. In the invitation to tender, we requested that building permits should also be submitted in the application, which means that we co-finance 50 % and 60 % of viable projects and this, of course, will significantly increase the absorption of these funds. The same is true of investments in flood protection. Here, too, through the Water Directorate, we are specifically implementing projects, as well as the removal of the rehabilitation of beaches. As much as we have co-financed in the recent period within the local communities to rehabilitate existing beaches and increase investment in flood security, this has never been done in the past.” He goes on to say: “So that Slovenia, at least as far as this work at the Ministry of Environment and Space is concerned, is making effective use of the resources for the problems that people actually have. Perhaps, unlike in the past, when very often cohesion funds were allocated to some studies, some analyses, various studies, which ultimately had no concrete impact in the space and on the quality of people's living, we decided to go along with some projects that had not been supported so far. I can tell you the case, there's still a big water supply gap today. Here we had a recent referendum on waters full of mouth protection and constitutional right to drinking water, while we were not helping to finance local water supply communities where they wanted to attach some villages to the water supply, to public water supply, and to provide water to these people. The honourable Member, it is my opinion that the exercise of the right to drinking water will be carried out: to allow people to join the water pipeline, to help municipalities, because this is usually a very difficult investment, because it is a matter of connecting some remote areas where the pipeline needs to be removed far away, that is, the locals may also be shaken up and there is a lot of water supplies needed. We have therefore used the means of the plan to recover and to resist precisely for these contents, as well as smaller sewerage. In this way we also protect water and water resources because we allow people to take measures to protect or remove waste water in some remote areas in smaller agromeliorations, below 2,000 population equivalents. As far as I am concerned, or the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are very pleased with these options of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is already under way. The absorption will certainly be important before 2023, but only 2026, when the deadline for the absorption of these funds is reached.« Respected and respected, this was the first part of the minister’s response — I quoted him as saying or reading the magnetogram — and from this reply is indeed more than clear what the Recovery and Resistance Plan means and why resources are being used. So, all in favour of people, the economy, in favour of local communities, municipalities, local communities; in short, people who want clean drinking water, not only written in the Constitution, but they want plumbing, clean drinking water, which will flow from their home taps, both for humans and for animals. And the management of flood protection, the removal of consequences, and that the thefts will be as ready as possible when the water catch comes. Essentially, of course, is co-financing of cleaning appliances, central cleaning appliances, small cleaning appliances, sewerages. In short, if that's not clearly stated enough and if that's not enough to make people happy, then I really don't know. By the way, the Recovery and Resistance Plan also has the following components: the Green Passage is what we all know. In this green transition, we have renewable energy sources and efficient use of energy in the economy, sustainable renovation of buildings, which is a very important, clean and safe environment, sustainable mobility, the circular economy, that is, efficient use of resources, which we are talking about all along. This also seems very important to me to stress several times that people will know what the Recovery and Resistance Plan includes. There is also digital transformation, digital transformation of the economy, digital transformation of the public sector and public administration, as well as smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. Here are research, development and innovation, increasing productivity, a friendly business environment for investors, the labour market, measures to reduce the impact of negative structural trends, transforming Slovenian tourism and investment in infrastructure in the field of tourism and cultural heritage, strengthening competences, in particular digital and those required by new professions, as well as efficient public finances. Health and social security are also included in the Recovery and Resistance Plan. Here too is the government and we Members have already changed a lot of things for the better, things are moving forward, moving from a dead point, moving from a state of study and speaking itself. And here is health care, which we know what is being done in health care and what is going to happen to us to finally move; social security and long-term care and housing policy. Therefore, the Recovery and Resistance Plan foresees using EUR 1.8 billion of available grants and a good EUR 705 million of loans. The extent to which reimbursements will be used will be possible to increase to the extent necessary and to the extent that the conditions are appropriate. According to the excellent rating, Slovenia is indebted at a negative interest rate, and the Member States can do so by August 2023 and so on. In short, you could talk about it for hours and hours. There's been a lot of time, effort, work here. And we can only say thank you to the ministers and teams in the ministries that have actually prepared these things, as necessary, and that they are then carried out. But I'm going to keep looking for pumpkins in the response of the Minister of Mags. A visionary on Member Pecko's question, which he made very clear in the first part – and we could also hear what I was just quoting. Let us look at another part of the minister's response, including a summary of the magnetogram. Well, that's what the mag said. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Environment and Space, in the second part of his reply to Member Pecko's question: "Dear Member! I really don't like going to foreign cabbages. Your questions also concern energy efficiency measures and renewable energy measures, which are in the energy directorate domain of the Ministry of Infrastructure. They have, of course, foreseen measures for these objectives under their Recovery and Resistance Plan drawing-up programme. But I'm not going to comment on them, because that doesn't belong in my department. I have told you what belongs to my department and what we have within the Department of Environment and Space. These are water supply, waste water treatment systems, flood safety and digitisation in terms of bureaucratic discharges, when we talk about obtaining permits, when we talk about environmental data, interventions to space and, lastly, also about obtaining and adopting municipal spatial acts and building permits. This is the responsibility of the Ministry, where we have also alocate the funds.” He continues: "But I fully agree with you that investments in both renewable energy and efficient use do not have sufficient acceleration and need further acceleration if we are to achieve ambitious goals supported both by the agreement in Glasgow and Fit for 55. This is the legislative package presented by the European Commission last year, which will also have to be reflected by the renewed NEPN, which is the National Energy and Climate Plan. The preparation of the updated National Energy and Climate Plan also falls within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as it will respond to how policies on efficient use and renewable resources can achieve these ambitious objectives in both the energy sector and the transport and industry sectors." Minister Mag. Vizjak continues: “The Ministry of Environment and Space is receiving one segment here, which is also not negligible. It is important, it is waste management and, above all, efficient and better waste management. This Parliament will be informed on Thursday of the new Environmental Protection Act, which, inter alia, represents important progress, in particular in the field of waste management policies, where we will focus on all the objectives to achieve these wastes that are being treated or disposed of as little as possible. For the first time, to prevent waste generation and then to all other measures such as reuse, recycling and so on. In short, Your Honor, I would love to answer your question in more detail, but I am not responsible for it." The end of the quote or the end of the magnetogram answers mags. Minister of Environment and Space Visiak to Mr Pecko for his question on the Recovery and Resistance Plan. I think that I have been clear enough and that it is right to read the minister’s quality answers more than once and perhaps — no harm would come to anyone — and this would also be a great benefit. When I also heard some discussions about whether it is being invested enough and if it is being invested in building houses for the elderly, in railways, in roads, in renewable energy sources and so on. Of course you do! Of course you do, because that's obvious, but at every turn. This can be seen by every citizen, every citizen, every citizen, every countrywoman and every local woman, that things are moving forward to make things better. If we just look at the railway, what developments are currently taking place on the railway with the renewals of the railways, with the renovations of stations, stations, railway crossings, approaches, arrivals, tunnels, the acquisition of new trains and so on. And how the railway and interstate bus transport became popular and how it is especially benefited by students, students who, among other things, have a monthly ticket or an annual ticket, which is very cost-effective: it applies to all trains, on all routes, with an unlimited number of trains. And it can benefit and trains are full and buses too. Also pensioners, pensioners older than 65 years of age, war invalids, athletes after all and that is that, this is the contribution of all these investments and investments and the good legislation that we have endorsed in the National Assembly, at least some Members, but not some. But it's okay. Things are moving on. Homes for the elderly, the sight of how many houses are built. Of course, homes are being built, of course it was necessary to prepare invitations, it was necessary to adopt a strategy at all to invest in building houses for older citizens, as we know so far, we know that it has not been and thank God that this is happening now. And in advance, a call for proposals and then all the documentation for the construction of these houses, including building permits, is ongoing. This isn't in a month. This isn't in a month! And the congregations have been well prepared and many contracts have been signed, and many homes for the elderly are being restored when the elderly were inadequate, when the rooms are too small, when the rooms have no bathrooms, when they were not sufficiently bright, when the rooms were not sufficiently ventilated. It has to be said that these things are being done and are being renewed and homes will be being built and concessions for 2 000 300 beds have been granted over the past two years and 93 million Euros of grants have been reserved for 18 homes for older citizens in Slovenia. That's the data, published, that's the way it is. And it's right that we're finally moving, that we're not just going to stay in the study and spend money on those studies and the actual pumpkins. These are pumpkins. I can see with us, in my congregation, in Lithuania, when we had to build a home for older citizens and protected dwellings by ourselves, citizens and citizens, from the municipal budget. And if such a home is 12, 13 million, imagine that the municipal budget also has 12 million euros, then you can see how much debt needed to be paid and how many citizens and citizens had to give up a project that was urgently needed in order to build this house. And today it is full and we have protected apartments full and in this facility also a protective work centre. This is a recovery and resistance plan. I think that's the right thing to do. It is also being restored to the home of the elderly in Thessa, and people are eager to come to new places. As far as the railway is concerned, we know very well how many kilometres of tracks have already been restored, how much more will it take, how much more time the station has updated. We also hope for a nice reconstruction of both the railway station and the parking lot as well as the installation of anti-group fences. And that's it, it's in the Recovery and Resistance Plan that you've been talking about, but after all there's nothing and there's not going to be and so on. Renewable energy sources. So far, very little has been done in Slovenia in this area; very little. Above all, we have not been prepared for this and today there are great consequences of this incompetence: obsolete electricity infrastructure and we are all talking, yes, but we will put solar collectors on the roof or we will have our own electricity generation, we will be self-sustaining, and finally we will find that a bunch of transformers, mainly in rural areas, and I can say just across the country, will not allow people to acquire photovoltaics because they can put it on the roof and they will not be able to attach it. Here we are. Now we can talk, and what candidates are going to run say that solar energy is the future and let's put all solar power plants on the roof. We can say this, but we don't have the conditions. And here we have to ask ourselves, and here we have to invest a lot of money and resources so that we can even use renewable energy. So there's some talking, and there's some real data, and there's some real picture in the field. To conclude, I am pleased that this kind of debate is today in the National Assembly. I am pleased with the Member of Parliament's question, Mr Pecko, and I was also very happy and delighted to hear the last response from the Magi. Andrej Visiak has provided all the data on this question, when he has given an actual answer, as is necessary. This is where I personally and what I have also expressed in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group – we see no problems. We do not see any problems in drawing, we do not see any problems in implementing this Recovery and Resistance Plan. And I believe that all three ministries – for environment and space, the Government for Development and Cohesion Policy and the Ministry of Infrastructure – will continue to work so hard that this plan will also live in practice and that from this plan and from all of these European funds envisaged for all these projects, in particular, the people and the economy, citizens and citizens, country women and countries will have the most right. And that seems essential to me. However, I will continue to be pleased to hear the debate below. So much for me. Mr Vice-President, I conclude my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Procedurally Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Mr President, see, please remind Mr Doblekar. He began very insultingly, attacking how we left the Members and Members talking about things not only the Minister of Vision and the environment, but then he was making noises and planting pumpkins all over the living, not to mention when he stumbled by this pumpkin, that he was talking about homes there fat and wide for the elderly, about everything living and very little about the environment. He read us the magnetograms of what we have all heard, and if Minister Visiak's response was all right, perhaps Member Pecek would not even have proposed a broader debate. So blah, blah, blah, let me apologize for my insults, how we do not discuss others specifically with regard to the Minister, and how he then allows himself to do exactly the same. I mean, it's upside down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Of course, as chairman, I really appeal to all colleagues and colleagues to try to discuss the content on the agenda, without intolerance and without offense. And to mention a lot of things that are not the subject of today's debate, I really don't think it's right for all those who sit here and listen. I believe that's what everyone has heard. Igor Peček has the word. Here you go. As a proponent or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Look, it's not about being impatient. For I could only respond in certain parts to the debate of my colleague Doblekar; also from the point of view of the Minister's reply. If I were satisfied with what I heard or with what I could ask, I would probably not even make a procedural proposal at first. I said what was the purpose of my procedural proposal. However, believe me, I am very well aware of what the Minister's mandate is and, as a result, what his responsibility is. That's what I said in the opening statement, and then I said it again. The Ministry of Environment and Space is most involved in the implementation of projects. In particular, from the point of view of the issue of consent and permits, I thought these issues were crucial and entirely on the spot. After all, colleague Doblekar himself said that the implementation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is under way for interdepartmental cooperation, and I am absolutely in agreement with that here. Once again, it is not an intolerance or a challenge to anything that has been said, but some of the statements made have been a little covert. It was not a matter of activating resources, but a tender was issued in January in the field of drinking water supply and wastewater treatment. That's what I think we all understand. That's an essential difference. And I hope it will be as soon as possible, and I wish there would be a contract signing as soon as possible, a building permit, but I'll let it in a little bit later. Secondly, there is no specific implementation of projects under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. More. That is why I asked the Minister what those projects were. Today we have received the government's response to the system, where it is precisely stated that projects are not yet being implemented. However, I would like, given the relatively limited timeframe, not to be comforted by the N+2 period and the 2026 period, because in 2025 we will not be able to report the projects anymore, so we need to hurry. We do know, however, that the procedures for complementing projects, obtaining documentation, obtaining consensus are long-term and that obtaining building permits, and that I have so much experience personally, can be very confusing. And it can happen that given that the principle of allocation of funds in the National Plan is different from in the VFO to the next tranches, we have received an advance of 231 million, 13% of all countries have received it. Spain, Italy, Luxembourg, these are the three I know have already received the first tranche. Next, after the advance. However, the report, which will be issued by the European Commission as regards the monitoring of targets and milestones, is likely to come in April. As far as debt at a negative interest rate is concerned, I am already satisfied with that, but I apologize for the expression. It is true that we owed a billion and a half at a negative rate, 18 million in the state treasury or in the budget as soon as we tendered the bonds. However, if we look at the situation, especially the growth of the required yields on bonds, which is already and which we are looking forward to in the future, we can worry about that, so I really do not want to discuss this, not at all within this issue. If the Minister were here with us today, given his response to the Waste Protection Act, we know that the law has been passed, but here would be the first thing to ask him how he views waste, and this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space as a source of recycled raw materials, and why the Republic of Slovenia does not have set targets, how much waste per category will we recycle, which is a very important question. Thus, the separation of plastics, electronics, textiles for recycling and all that then from the continuation of the law, because this is one of the first or I think that even the first measure or reform in Project Part 3 concerning the competences of the ILO is also written down. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Now that I've heard all this, of course I can't go beyond this, this word “bubbles”, which has also been mentioned several times, and today these beeches have been further strengthened in this hall. And this has encouraged me even more today's debate that I will probably point out and say an additional matter in my debate. No, I don't care where and how we use these development funds from the Recovery and Resistance Plan. After all, all the countries that benefit know that this is the opportunity that will then go forward. And Slovenia must make good use of this. If not, it will be further behind development on average in the European Union. However, if we know how to use these funds properly, in development, even today, in these new situations that have emerged from the war in Ukraine; in addition, things are changing strongly and certain countries are already taking action. On the sixth day following the attack on Ukraine, the German Chancellor told the public that the new German government had been surprised by the crucial decisions. Of course for energy; indeed, for Russia, the return of nuclear energy, the acceleration of renewables. That was the key. And the goals by 2028 to 2030: they want to be self-sustaining. Germany! After reading this, of course, I heard it, I said to myself, yeah, but now I can expect what our government will do. Nothing! We read in the paper: something's coming. And what you're saying today, these pumpkins you're selling forward, which the minister said was not responsible for certain matters. How competent he is! You said so today! If we want to make good use of these funds, all ministries must participate, otherwise there will be no effect. The SVRK can only be the coordinator, and the Ministry of Finance can only be the custodian of the finances, once it is accepted together, but all must be coordinated in government and all must cooperate. And if it is already said that someone is not competent, the Minister should say that, since the question is broader, I will also bring the Minister of Infrastructure, the Minister of Economy, and the Minister of Agriculture to this meeting today, because it is very important how we will benefit from it. And we're saying, we can increase the additional billions to see. In today's presentation, I'm going to be very specific and I'm going to ask the key questions, and even though no one in the executive branch is here today, they're going to listen to the public. Because I'm going to be very critical of certain matters. See, from the Recovery and Resistance Plan, this ensures sustainable and development investment, green, digital; today we can also say the path to self-sustainment. And on this subject today, there should be a full hall, all the ministries, to tell us how we are going to develop further with these resources that we can use, not only irreparably, but also with duties for future generations. Very important! But I'm gonna come out of this. Look, this government has dedicated – all of it touches this area – 200 million for energy vouchers to help people with energy expensiveness. Everything's nice and good, of course, because we're surprised because we're not ready for it. And I wonder what we'll do in the next few months, three months, six months. Are we going to make another 200 million out of the budget, from the taxpayer's money, to help people? Will we do so? On the other hand, I wonder how the Government is acting in a sustainable, developmental way to alleviate this irritation and lack of energy, which we are also using for heating. How much resources we use from the Recovery and Resistance Plan for this area: for renewable energy sources, for sun, water and biomass, which is also crucial because Slovenia is rich with this resource. We have already found out several times today, only 5.7%. Even less, if the LMŠ had not convened a meeting for this area of forest-forest chains, wood-processing activities would have been devoted to this and that the first project is already approved in Koroška today. But this is happening too slowly, a lot of these things should be known today. That's why I added an energy chain to this forest-forest chain. Today we know about this war, the gas is already on the move, three times, four times, and it can run out. It is therefore necessary to immediately add energy as a sustainable energy supply for Slovenia. Today we have to ask ourselves if we know how to use it. I'm gonna keep doing this work today. What I said before is this bad cooperation, even because the forest-forest chain is essential for energy, for biomass. And I'm going to go back to what's in this action plan 2014-2020 when we're expecting what's going to happen. How did it end? Your former Minister, Pivcheva, said in the middle of the woods in Koroška: “No, wood centres are not profitable, they are not profitable.” That was the conclusion. And that's when I got up and told mine, if we're really going to export the cold to Austria, where once they have a more expensive labor force, it pays them off, but we don't have it in Slovenia. This is where I'm gonna keep going. That's how it ended. And at the meetings, there were almost seven meetings on this subject, I found that in this action plan the ministries responsible for this, agriculture and the economy did not participate in each other in seven years, and there was no meeting. And even today, if a minister says so, that is not my responsibility — that is the easiest thing to say! In the companies where I worked, if someone said that it wasn't in my jurisdiction, it wasn't in my line of work, I said it wouldn't be bread, and we replaced the member, and then the matter went forward. Without that, there is no progress or development. See, biomass, which is an alternative source, sustainable, self-sustaining, circulation of CO2 in nature. Our forests, which are almost 60% in our Slovenia, grown, not with forests, are very poorly exploited. And if this dive, as we call it, is to consume as much wood as it is growing, we have done no harm. But the problem is that our raw materials, our natural resource as an energy source, we don't know how to use you. Why not? We're cutting a lot less than we're growing up. Secondly, we don't know how to make use of it, we have wood left in the woods, and we mostly export more than half of it; we leave it out, to Austria, to the Middle East, even to China. Since it is essential that the forest and forest chains work and that they do more in those seven years, or even in the last two years, today we would have 5.6 balls about the size of Austria, cut wood at home, and 35.40% of biomass in this waste. This is how we export for refrigeration abroad, and others are now heating up on this account, with this biomass that we can't take advantage of. And I said there's plenty of waste left in the woods. Here you see this scheme, heat-heating remote heating. This is important. We can warm up to a gas that is now three times more expensive than it was a year ago, gas than it was. All customers from private houses to schools to kindergartens to factories to hospitals to multi-housing buildings. There are more of these connections. It's more economical. And if we're warming up to gas today, the government should have all the plans on the table today, how we're going to go to the transition, to the renewable resources that Slovenia has, and we don't hear it. I've read a lot of stuff lately, and I haven't heard it, and I don't see it anywhere. Even when the Minister was visiting a good week in Koroška, I will not say which, he said that we do not have the right alternative to gas. When I heard that, I said, "The end is with us." In the middle of Koroška, in the middle of the woods! And in the middle of Koroška, where Slovenj Gradec started an investment in biomass last October; from gas he switched to biomass and today in Slovenj Gradec no practical heating was encouraged. And who today is the most expensive warm-up in Slovenia? The level in Koroškem is the ironworks behind, Trbovlje – mining, Jesenice – ironworks. Do you wonder what the reason is when you know, when you know theoretically know how to speak so beautifully, how everything is well solved, how your government has done everything? I didn't hear any answer to that. These are the areas that are least developed where wages are lowest, where added value is lowest. Where is the Government taking action? Where do you see this? We, as Members, have to keep this in mind and the government has nothing to do with it because it cannot cooperate. Some excuses. It's sad. Our hospital, which you can see here, I spoke to the director. I told you how you're warming up today, how you handle it. He said 350 percent went up because they have their own gas station. But Slovenj Gradec has biomass for remote heating. I said we could join the biomass, and our director of the community already has the task of doing it. But we're wondering if the government is going to use the Recovery and Resistance Plan of the additional resources, the means to make these investments possible. That's what they're asking, and no one has an answer because no one's ever thought about it. This is that we do not know quickly towards Germany to react and discuss. Even in Koroška, the minister comes and says we have no alternative. But it's because we don't know how to think about it and work. Review of the status of distribution heat systems in Slovenia. I pulled this from the Energy Agency, and I talked to them, and they didn't have anything special to say to me. They said it was all under the authority of the ministries. Look, 45% coal, 36% gas, wood biomass only 15.64%. 15% is just biomass in the middle of Slovenian forests! Today, prices went wild and the government distributed 200 million energy vouchers. Are we going to spend every month covering this? See, 2018 I concluded as the President of the Supervisory Board of the Municipale Slovenj Gradec, and before that we have adopted a business plan, an investment in heating with biomass. I said before, the opening was last October, when the price of gas growth started and Slovenia Gradec was saved. This is a fine example to follow. That these are the solutions for Slovenia! Absolutely. We need to see this and we need to save it this way, and of course the money is enough from the NNO; but it needs to be properly installed. I can't see anything. This scheme, our forests, the rich, the woodshed. The saw's too small. The biggest sawmill in Slovenia is 100,000 cubic metres a year and in Austria a million and 500 thousand more. It is said that there is no competition for them here, but we could have a nice job, and then we could sell the cut wood more expensive, more money, more value added, and all the remains that fall away, from 35 to 40 percent, could be used nicely for biomass, which is the condition. But these centers haven't come back to life in nine years, and the goals have been spelled out correctly. Biomass was also in between and all this stuff. No! No! It's moving awfully slowly. Here is an example of an energy station on biomass, which today is a solution to this crisis instead of gas. See, at the end of the 40s after World War II and in the 50s, Slovenia exported wood raw materials: after Drava, after Sava. We know where this is going. Today, of course, this is no longer for rafting. So that then Slovenia could develop after the war. There were no saws – small saw sawmills and went for sale in order to restore Slovenia at that time. What about today? Look, it's going on, and today this is how our wood goes even to other continents, and what we look at together, and we don't know how to solve it. This is a scheme that the Energy Agency renews every year. This one's from 2000. Look at her! Where it's yellow, there's gas, where it's green, there's biomass, where it's black, there's coal, what we said before. The government should have this scheme now ahead of it and solve it; it should only solve half of what you have now dedicated to energy vouchers, invest in development in order to permanently solve this problem in order to be self-sustaining about what Germany is doing. No, we've never heard that! And today we wanted to talk to the government about it, but they're not here. What are they doing? Do they share energy vouchers, carry them around houses or something? [[advertising from the hall]] These are the solutions! Yeah, that's it! How to use the good in the Plan for Recovery and Resistance of Financial Resources to be self-sustaining, so that we can solve things not with vouchers, but with sustainability, with development; about what you say so much, but you just don't see it. And that's the grief. Once again, if the government, if the ministries do not cooperate, talks with each other, Slovenia will not develop. And of course, if you don't see it, you don't know, we're just going to approach the next government differently and start solving things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Doblekar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. First, when you talk about pumpkins, look at your fellow Members. The pumpkins were discussed at the first meeting today by your Member, Nick Prebil. That's the first thing we can do with this. I just picked him up. The first to come forward on the subject of pumpkins was your Member Nick Prebil. Did I make myself clear? I hope so. [[advertising from the hall]] Let's move on. Lecture on biomass and energy supply and energy poverty at the point on the Recovery and Resistance Plan. I can't see the connection, I can't see! I was previously warned by a left-wing Member who obviously did not understand me well. Of course, as soon as you tell the truth and what is true, you are immediately attacked on a procedural basis, that you must not talk about it and that you must apologize. However, I have not been with a single word that is neither offensive nor incorrect, but I have only said what I have heard from others, I have taken it up and, above all, I have relied on the question of Mr Pecko, who, once again, I very much appreciate. That's all I was talking about. And I read the Minister's reply magnetogram, which I thought was a good idea, because there were different interpretations of this answer. I believe, and I've been talking about renewable energy myself. I did not go into so much detail here with a presentation on the exploitation of biomass and so on, nor did I talk about what the Member before me stressed that it is necessary to stop these vouchers to help people with energy darlings or that they should not be given, but that this money should instead be earmarked for the detection of hot water or for biomass now in these difficult times. It's about time, my dear fellow. You had a government, and you've done virtually nothing in this area. You had a government, and then it was time for such a debate. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Your Honour, you have a replica and not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	I was misunderstood, so I'm also replicating, Mr. Vice President. And then it was time to discuss biomass, not now that it's all too late. But I also know that in the field, things are moving in the right direction, including in terms of renewable energy, including biomass, forest maintenance, wood use, forest cleaning. Among other things, we received a high recognition in Lithuania the day before yesterday, the oglar, Mr Medved, the highest recognition for the best forest manager. That's how things go, and I'm glad they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	Once again, you, colleagues and colleagues, I call on us to be worthy of Parliament. And so do you, Mr. Lenart. To hurt someone by wearing house vouchers and stuff. I don't think that's appropriate, those words of yours. Well, maybe you can say that at a pre-election meeting. Lydia Divac Mirnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, I still have plenty of time. As has already been said, in the LMŠ we see these funds linked to the Recovery and Resistance Plan as extremely important. We have highlighted this several times, and this is also highlighted by the fact that colleague Igor has asked this question and has received the answer that he has received; in style, yes, you know, it is the responsibility of others, the Ministry of Finance and the SVRK, although the SVRK should be the one who only implements the matter, of course, after it is coordinated among the various ministries. This obviously didn't happen. In the LMCA, we believe that we should draw as much of these funds as possible in order to achieve the criteria for climate targets, with independence from other EU Member States and climate change and, of course, the current crises, which are now absolutely affecting the future of both state infrastructure and our economy. This money, this 2 and a half billion, is, of course, enough money to make it very effective. Perhaps it is only that I do not forget what Comrade Doblekar told Jože earlier about his discussion of biomass, that it was time for him to discuss biomass earlier. This is what I am doing, as it is also time for what projects will be put into the Recovery and Resistance Plan before, and you will not believe it, this government has hidden this matter internally and has not communicated externally. It was very difficult for the opposition Members to come to know what was in that first plan, which the European Commission then returned to us because it was completely out of our hands to understand each other. And then they found ours, of course, on the government, that they wouldn't be able to do all the mayors of their Rondo, but I don't know what sidewalks they had in mind. This is a basic problem for us to understand these things very differently! We look forward to the LMŠ and are aware of what digitisation and green will mean and all these transitions and self-sustainment and independence. This current government with mayors who sent projects from the field, and they would have climbing walls, specifically there in Styria they wanted to work and Rondoje and sidewalks. Just so we're clear, I don't mind ronds and sidewalks. This recovery plan is designed for something else. So as a result, with that 5.2 billion, we've come to draw 2.5 billion if we do, because at this point it's showing us worse. But what's even worse is that this green is obviously what they decided at the Ministry of the Environment to be pumped into 5.2%. For example, Croatia has decided, just to say the exact figure, that it will give 9.7% for the transition to green. Our government has decided only 5.7. And you know, these are the things that we've been alerting us to in LMŠ all the time, and we've also been referring to this subject, so that we can hear where we want to go in 10, 20 years, and that this money from the plan would really be pumped up for the next generation that the way this government would totally owe, to have some of it. But no. The document was hidden, and the document should not have been discussed as such, because of course it is wrong. Even a sustainable, developmental government did not think the most, because it is thinking about tomorrow or the preferred part of this pre-election candy, and it thinks that it will win elections in this way, but forgets the need to think about sustainable and self-sustaining resources that will be even in the light of what is happening in Ukraine today, the most important source for us to survive at all. And about the fact that this government wanted to build peripheral projects or circumstantial projects [[adverts from benches]] land thanks Robi for help, with that law that I do not even begin to explain, because obviously business friends are more important than our water, clean water, which we must leave for our craftsmen, because we can be happy that clean, drinking water flows from our taps. And these are things that are sustainable, and we should talk about this, and we should also talk about this when this plan came about. So we didn't. Why? Because this government would rather hide everything. Mr Igor, when he asked Minister Visiak, of course, wanted to point out that it would be necessary to speed up the process of obtaining documentation, as well as with all other procedures, so that I could actually draw 2.5 billion. And don't count on us to have until 2025 and 2026. That is why this debate is today. That is why I am now pleased that gentlemen who may or may not tell us something have come because they are from the financial [[…]] [[background advertising]] Yeah, well, they're from the Treasury. According to the Minister of Vision, they will be most able to tell us about this because he is not in charge of it. Then we would need someone here from the SVRK to explain to us where we are now with these projects and what actually is already or will actually be consumed with this first tranche or advance that we have already received, 213 million. Otherwise, I fear that this is another plan that will not be implemented. However, despite this, in the LMŠ we believe that all these projects need to be speeded up, that this documentation needs to be obtained immediately, so that we can carry out the real projects that have been recorded in the plan. That, finally, including voters and voters, people in Slovenia and our researchers will have some of the money that we have actually received from the European Union. So much for a start, and I'll probably come up with something else next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the speaker gets the floor. Igor Peček has the word as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. However, at least a few things might apply to projects concerning the third component or component, which falls exclusively within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. In fact, even because of the obvious, it has been said that in the past only studies and plans have been made, and now it is being specifically built. I'm just a mechanic, and I know that it doesn't usually happen without plans; but if you do, then the project is usually much more expensive – and this is happening because of fragmentation – or if it's falling on some kind of core and it's not going anywhere. This is because I would like to highlight the reform part of the Ministry of Environment and Space plan. Indeed, it states, as one of the key objectives of the reform work, the adoption of the Plan to reduce flood risk, the adoption of a new resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, the preparation of two operational programmes for each economic public service. And I agree that these resolutions and those plans are absolutely necessary, especially because the investment part must then be carried out. And if I jumped on the investment part, very quickly, I'd just point out one thing. The biggest item in our NNOO is the reduction of flood risk and the reduction of risk to other climate conditions, the accidents here I think mainly of reptiles, and the minister also said that this is their jurisdiction. In fact, it is 335 million, of which there is a non-refundable work of 55 million and 280 million return work. Thus, the return work is five times more than irreversible; in all the other components, it is one-to-one, irreversible-return. The thought that came to me personally in this regard is mainly because I am surprised to see why so high a share of loans, if I may say so, or the return on funds, because I know that loans have to be covered. Each part of the investment plan, which is also supported by the financial plan, shall include coverage. But I couldn't find an answer to how these projects would cover themselves with a loan. This would, for example, ask the Minister today if he would explain to me why, in all projects, for example, the ratio is one to one, but the biggest ratio is covered to the greatest extent by loans. When I watched the report on the implementation of the plan under the Slovenian Water Directorate – this is a completely fresh report with 18. 3. In this respect, he says, I will quote one sentence, “investments will aim at a comprehensive resolution of existing and threatened areas and will mainly interfere with the arrangements of high water retention systems with dry, wet maintenanceers” and “the establishment of spilly surfaces” and, ultimately, “the priority will be given to natural and green solutions following the concept of Nature-based solutions.” When I went to see the projects, you see that a few of them were more than 30, and the layman would have found out from the original description that it was exclusively construction operations. In fact, because the words of building a wall of resistance, raising a hill, installing a retainer, and nowhere did I find them in any project, it is very commendable that 33 of them, where they would write the arrangements of the spilly surface, such as urbanization of spilly surfaces; what is written in the strategic or reform work. I don't want anyone to get the wrong idea that I don't support these projects. Reverse! But then we happen to the Costanjevice case, as it happened two months ago, and everyone is well aware of what's going on now. The project is financially unsustainable, and the use in terms of maintenance costs is likely to be too expensive and will be difficult to afford, but let us leave the content. Thank you all very much for the debate or participation in the debate. I just can't thank the Minister for the answers, but I will certainly, if there's only a chance, if I have a chance to ask him about these issues. Nor was the purpose of my procedural proposal to question and call the Minister to account, far from that, although in some way I have a duty and a right when I was entrusted with this seat, in which I am now sitting to do so. But once again, that wasn't the point. The goal was to get answers to the questions and concerns that came to me when I was dealing with this national plan — and believe me, I had dealt with it a lot — to get answers to those questions that I could not find answers to or had not had the knowledge to answer myself. However, this seemed right to me that if I had the opportunity and with regard to such a substantive and financially demanding plan as the NNO, it is certainly in place. But what happens sometimes or too often in this house is that many times knowledge is just hearing that the hearing of the listener is probably not about losing words with which category I would then define such knowledge. Again, thank you very much. My assessment of the NNOO is also beyond the environmental work alone that it has not been sufficiently ambitiously prepared, including from a financial point of view. Let's give it a rest. The time has been very short and we cannot tell the government or the preparers here, but I can tell them that the answers to certain questions would probably be easier to answer if more people answered them, the professional stakeholders were too small in this preparation of the plan, and therefore the ambition resulting from the plan to achieve all the goals that we have set ourselves in our country's strategy; not only because of this plan, not just because of this government, but not just because of the opposition, but because of society and the country as a whole. That's how I looked at this debate from the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you, too. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that there is no interest, so I conclude the debate. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Host Kališek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today's re-examination of the bill, which has recently been dealt with in the National Assembly. The new bill removes the main concern that you rejected the previous bill, while also taking into account some of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in the previous legislative procedure. First of all, I would like to point out that, by means of a proposal for a new law, the powers of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering concerning the processing of personal data do not change substantially or remain to the same extent as in the law in force. The Anti-Money Laundering Office is not a law enforcement body but an intelligence activity. However, in order to carry out this task effectively, sufficient powers must be available in accordance with international standards and European legislation. Although the Office has access to a large amount of information, it is not a service for other state authorities that would like to easily access this information, but it exercises its powers only for the purpose of preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. Any access to data shall also be recorded and there must be a legal reason for inspection. In addition to the tasks performed by the Office as a financial intelligence unit, the Office shall also have inspection powers in respect of the debtors carrying out measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. They therefore verify the legality of the activities of the debtors as business entities and not as individuals. With regard to the powers of inspectors, it should be clarified that the current proposal follows the law currently in force concerning the powers of inspectors to prevent money laundering. In the interests of clarity, a new, eighth paragraph of Article 159 is added in the new law, which provides that the debtor may refuse entry to the premises of an inspector who does not have a court decision. The adoption of the urgent legislative procedure is necessary because the Republic of Slovenia has already received official warnings due to the irregular transposition of the two Directives, namely EU Directive 2019/1153 and EU Directive 2019/2177, into the Slovenian legal order, which may have significant financial consequences. The main purpose of the bill, which is therefore before you, is to transpose the three European Union legislative acts on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing into Slovenia's legal order. In addition, the proposal for a law on the proposal of the debtors and the supervisory authorities also contains some improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the first meeting of the 71st Emergency Meeting on 22 March this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In the course of business, qualified applicants did not table amendments to the draft law. In its introduction, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance said that the draft law followed certain comments from the previous legislative procedure and took into account some of the concerns raised in the previous hearing. As the main objectives of the bill, it highlighted compliance with the acquis of the European Union, improved risk management of money laundering and more effective control. With regard to the consideration of the draft law under the urgency procedure, she highlighted the European Commission's official comments adopted by Slovenia on the delays in the transposition of the directives into the national legal order and, in this regard, pointed out the potential for major financial damage to the Slovenian budget. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that only their technical comments were taken into account in the draft law. It further presented three sets of substantive comments. These sets relate to disproportionate interference with the protection of personal data, include comments relating to the broad powers of the inspection authority and comments relating to the issuing of different orders and need to be issued in an appropriate procedure. The representative of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering provided more detailed explanations on the tasks and operational functions of the Office. He stressed the key task of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which is a financial intelligence unit with specific powers for effective timely operation. In particular, he pointed out that the Office has been operating with similar powers since 2016 and that the same practice applies in other Member States of the European Union. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee pointed out that the proposal for a law was almost identical to a law that was not adopted this February. They highlighted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Information Officer and pointed out that there was a possible discrepancy with the Constitution in certain articles of the proposed law. They considered that there was a possibility of misuse of personal data that the Office could obtain, process and, in their view, store for too long. On the other hand, other members considered that it was a transposition of two directives and one regulation for which the deadline was already in the previous year and mentioned the potential European Commission's penalties for delays, which could amount to up to EUR 1 million. They pointed out that most of the solutions already in force, which are controversial for some, already exist in the law in force, which was adopted in 2016. They felt that it was essential to ensure that suspicious transactions were also actually investigated, as otherwise the consequences could be very harmful. The following detailed the powers of the inspector, how to manage records and report to the Government. With regard to the inspection powers, it was clearly stated that the inspector could not enter the private premises of the debtor without the decision of the competent court. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Given that the Committee on Finance, as a parent of the labour force, has not adopted any amendments to the draft law, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! After they failed their first attempt, we have before us a new government an attempt to inadmissibly extend the repressive powers of the state authorities. The need to act decisively against the perpetrators of money laundering and terrorist financing is expected. Again, this law does not establish an effective money laundering office, but establishes a political and financial secret police with extensive repressive powers and unlimited access to personal data under the cover of prosecution of serious crimes. Our sharp words are only a response to the reality and a concrete proposal sent by the Government to the National Assembly. For the second time, the Government has proposed a law to replace the current law without coordination with key stakeholders and the professional public. It reduced the time for public hearing to a minimum, but it did not even take into account the comments adopted or explain to the applicants why it rejected their proposals. The powers conferred on the Office by the proposal for a law shall constitute the right of unlimited collection, storage and processing of a variety of personal data for which there is no real and reasonable reason and shall not be permitted by the general rules on the protection of personal data. Even if it is the Office for a Repressive Authority, the implementation of the bill would incorporate abuse into the system as the basic way in which the Office operates. This could control any citizen without his knowing it or there being reasonable suspicion of it, let alone a court order. All of this follows the logic of the operation of this government, which feels strong only when it takes full control. In the National Assembly we received extensive and concerned responses from the Information Commissioner, the Accounting Services Chamber and the Consumer Union of Slovenia. All draw attention to the excessive powers with regard to the collection and processing of personal data. The broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service attaches to exposed criticisms and draws attention to disproportionate, excessive and unjustified interference with human constitutional rights while at the same time demonstrating that there is a government reference and coordination with European directives for common lie. Most of the prescribed content of the law has nothing to do with European regulations, and it is also clear to the legal laity that, if adopted, this law will be found to be inconsistent with the Constitution in the Constitutional Court and repealed. We hope to say that the rulings are also aware of this, who, after the Court's suspension of non-conformity, will again spit on the so-called guilty verdict, which will not allow them to make order in the country as they imagine; as the intimidation, subjugation and silence of all those who disagree with the rulings. Experience has taught us that in the meantime the rulings will use every peak and branch of the Office's exceptional powers, not to prosecute crime, but to deal with all those who are disruptive and competitive with that authority. Everything is in line with their political patterns from the east of our continent, which give friends everything and opponents the law. Respected colleagues, colleagues, money laundering and terrorist financing are serious problems for the conflict, with which coordinated and extensive repressive powers are indeed needed, as well as extensive data collection and processing. It is also true that the existing system is not ideal and an upgrade is needed, but the content and method proposed by the Government only means more mistrust, illegality and inefficiency. Government insistence on urgent procedures and the adoption of non-harmonised content only further undermines confidence in the integrity of its purposes. For all these reasons, we will stand unitedly and firmly against the implementation of this bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! The proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism allows for too much interference in the protection of personal data and extensive powers in the inspection process. In Levica, of course, we will not agree to this and, if the law is passed, we will challenge it in accordance with all available options. As it is said, it is already a second proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing after the National Assembly of the previous January meeting rejected it. The new proposal is practically the same as the previous one. The government has made only a few cosmetic corrections, corrected the number of paragraphs, wrong references and the like, everything else remains practically the same, the only substantive change is in the 159th article, where a provision is added that a debtor who does not have a decision by a competent court may refuse entry into housing. There is no secret that one of the first targets of the SDS was after the change of power of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The office took over Damjan Žugelj, Janšev's man, and unfortunately began to transform him more than apparently into a tool for political accounting with opponents of the ruling party. Right before the elections, the coalition wants to further strengthen its power, so this law, which would put the largest database in the country and greatly increase the office's powers. While the revised version does no longer allow inspectors to enter their homes without a court order, it does contain all the remaining controversial articles. The President of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering would still have access to virtually all databases in the country, and the Minister of Justice could determine who and what will be investigated and what not, an incredible database would be collected practically on every citizen. The Office will be able to collect data from virtually all records in the country, irrespective of the extent to which it will need to carry out specific procedures. It will have access to data from Banka Slovenije, Financial Administration, Central Population Register, Geodetic Administration, Maritime Administration, District Courts, Central Depository Companies, ID cards, travel documents and driving licences, pension and health insurance, criminal records, central databases covering rights from public funds, and so on. They will be able to store data on individuals for 12 years without revealing to them why they needed them at all. All of this opens up a large room for data abuse for political and other purposes. The staff of the Office will thus be able to provide the information obtained to other authorities if they request financial information and analysis from the Office, to which authorities, under the proposal of the law, would be assigned a troika of ministers of finance, internal affairs and justice. So in the current government, Shircelj, Hojs and Dikaucič. They are not bound by any criteria to decide who will be able to obtain this information. If we add to this the fact that Žugelj employs SDS members at the office, since there was no condition in at least one call that no registered candidates should be members of any party, even though the office under the European Directive is considered to be an extended term for the police, where such a condition applies. I quote: “The office had no employees with a client card for 20 years. This makes it possible to abuse, especially if this comes from a party that has itself been involved in problematic financing in the past” at the end of the note, this disclosure for the media was commented by the former director of the Office of Klaudijo Stroligo, who referred to it as a mini-state coup in one body. The Legislative and Legal Service and the Information Officer have also repeatedly warned that the law contains a number of provisions which are not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the General Data Protection Regulation and the rules on the protection of personal data. The opinion of the Legal and Legal Service is a long 17 pages. While we do not object to strict control over money laundering and terrorist financing in Levica, such control must be transparent, it must have clear legal boundaries and must not tolerate abuses and arbitrary measures by the Government. The strengthening of control over money laundering and terrorist financing must not be an excuse to tighten human control and to account for the ruling political caste with its political opponents. That is exactly what this law is and is therefore to be rejected. In Levika we will do everything, everything, within the framework of the permissible, that such a law will never enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A new Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism has been re-examined. In fact, the main objective of the bill is to transpose European directives into the Slovenian legal order. The law contains a number of improvements and does not affect the concept of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. We point out that by removing certain inconsistencies and uncertainties, the smoothing of certain requirements and the introduction of additional tools in the implementation of the measures by the debtors and the control mechanism, it is ensured that the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing by the debtors and the exercise of control by the supervised authorities is more effectively managed. In addition to complying with the European Union's secondary legislation, the bill in some parts provides a slightly clearer regulation and simplification of certain procedures. Among other things, a less stringent way of identifying a customer without a personal presence will be introduced if the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing is negligible. The requirements or conditions relating to the execution of video electronic identification and the proposal of the Strategic Council for digitisation will also be limited under certain conditions to allow other safe remote control or electronic identification procedure. The changes will also allow for the false exchange of information and data. Upon final consideration of the bill, many harsh words came from the opposition regarding the inspector's powers. NSI Group leader Jožef Horvat explained at the time that this article of the bill was almost identical to that adopted in 2016 at the time of the left-wing government, the amendment was only in two style corrections. Nevertheless, some of the left opposition protested loudly against an article they had adopted a few years ago. The sharp responses against the same article of the law show double criteria for responding to the same content in two different governments. In order to make the matter even clearer, the new bill in this part adds the sentence: “The debtor may refuse entry to residential premises to an inspector who does not have a court decision.” Ladies and gentlemen, when considering the proposal, it is worth reminding us that there is a key and irreplaceable role in the area under consideration for the detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which must carry out their part of the responsibility for the prosecution of offences of money laundering and terrorist financing. That this was at least a major problem in Slovenia in the past, the Farrokh case is well illustrated when between 2008 and 2010 a billion dollars traveled through an account in a state bank to thousands of anonymous addresses around the world. He's a mag investigator. I would like Pezdir to point out that this is the biggest financial scandal in the history of our country, and I quote “firstly because it is billions, and secondly because it has never happened in the country before that something that bears the suspicion of a crime remains practically buried until years later a completely unrelated commission happens to be excavated. It's a frantic thing. At least we knew about any suspected crime in this country, and we didn't even know it happened. The frantic collapse of institutions in handling this problem smells like a billion dollars. All of this constitutes the biggest financial scandal in the history of the country." That is why we need to change the law or amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Members of New Slovenia will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On 2 February 2022, 51 Members rejected the proposal for an identical law because of its apparent non-compliance with the Constitution, the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. 31 Members, mainly of the SDS and of New Slovenia, supported this law. The Government of the National Assembly is again forcing the adoption of a substantively identical law in which it has fixed the dots and branches, the exact number of paragraphs and the wrong references within the law; nothing else. The Government did not intervene in its substantive shortcomings and constitutional non-compliance, so the indications on the harmonisation of the text with the Legislative and Legal Service are misleading. The Government has only apparently corrected the contested provision allowing the inspector to enter private premises without a court order in such a way as to state that the debtor may refuse entry into the apartment if he does not have an order. This is simply sand in the eyes, as no substantive conditions for issuing such an order have been laid down, but it is not stipulated that a debtor who is a legal person may refuse entry into premises which are protected in the light of privacy in the same way as natural persons. The entire legal profession has responded strongly to the proposed amendments. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has reiterated the reasons for the unconstitutionality of such a law, which it has also supported by a number of jurisprudence. The information officer shall also remain fully in his position. In doing so, the proposer wants us to believe that the law brings improvements to the functioning of the system, more effective risk management and control. But it's not like that. It is about stepping up this government's farce in relation to constitutional regulation, the rule of law as a whole, and the ambition of political submission. Legal solutions are totally against the constitutional and legal arrangements for the protection of personal data. They allow the maximum concentration of data from natural and legal persons under one roof. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism is given unlimited powers to manage personal data, which opens the door to abuse and to interference with privacy. The Office will have all the records we have in this country, either your health, family, financial and property status, bank transactions and criminal records. And watch out! The fact that the Office is processing your data will never be known, since the Office is never obliged to inform you of this and even less to explain why it has taken place. Your data will also be transmitted by the Office to other authorities with the permission of three ministers. If such a situation occurs tomorrow, the fate of your privacy will be decided, think Minister Aleš Hojs, Minister Marjan Dikaucič and Minister Andrej Šircelj. The Office, which is part of the executive branch of the Authority, is not obliged to report to the National Assembly, but only to the Government. An information officer who is independent of our personal data will have no control over the office. All the above-mentioned black-and-white witness that the adoption of this law will interfere disproportionately with the privacy of our citizens and allow political accounting with opponents of the Government. Who, then, will benefit from the anticonstitutional provision? In the SAB, we have always warned that the law, the task of which is to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, must be in line with all relevant stakeholders, with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The unconstitutionality of this law means that money laundering and terrorist financiers will be successful in judicial proceedings. In the SAB Group, we believe that we have not yet achieved such a degree of control in Slovenia that we could be satisfied with. The above shows a number of money laundering affairs that have not yet received their epilogue. We recall a loan worth nearly half a million, which today's ruling SDS has enabled Dijan Djukić, who is supposed to have been shut down by NKBM, allegedly due to difficulties in explaining the origin of money. The SAB Group will oppose the proposed legal solutions due to unconstitutionality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you, too. The views of the Group will in particular be presented by the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, everyone else is present, very nice greeting! I have to say the following in the introductions, although it is not the subject of a debate, in particular the proposal to present a position. Somehow, in this matter, he is constantly misleading, both present here and the public, so that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering will abuse the so-called data, personal data related to his jurisdiction. This must be strongly denied, and that is not true. The Anti-Money Laundering Office will process and monitor data linked to previously obtained data transmitted by the debtors. This is how it is clear and clear to the public that it is not all the data that is presented in individual opinions. We again have before us the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which, on the one hand, introduces additional mechanisms for the implementation of control measures and, on the other hand, eliminates certain inconsistencies and uncertainties in the previous law. All of this with a view to preparing a basis to enable more efficient management of the risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism in our country. In the Group of Members, we see in particular the main reason for amending legislation, particularly in some of the shortcomings of the existing law, which may cause confusion in the debtors due to a lack of clarity. The purpose of implementing the new law is also seen in the preparation of the basis for the introduction of certain EU directives into our legal order. These include, inter alia, guidelines and rules to facilitate the use of financial and other information for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation and, ultimately, prosecution of certain crimes. At the same time, the proposed law also provides for certain new tasks and obligations of the debtors in areas where it has been shown in the past that the risk of money laundering has not been adequately managed. The main purpose of the bill before us today is therefore to transpose the three legislative acts of the European Union. The additional proposal of the law, proposed by the debtors and the supervisory authorities, also contains some improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system itself, such as the mitigation of certain requirements for debtors, which are now stricter than the requirements of the European Directive, the possibilities for video-electronic identification are expanded and new tools are introduced for the exchange of data between the debtors and the supervisory authorities. The proposal also lays down new offences with a view to improving the performance of supervisory tasks and the level of fines shall be adjusted to the amount of the revenue of the legal entity. In the Group of Members, we are particularly convinced that the proposed innovations do not change the essence of the current system of money laundering prevention. It is therefore only minor corrections made in order to improve the functioning of the system concerning both the conduct of the debtors and the exercise of the control of the competent authorities themselves. The regulation of the money laundering and terrorist financing system is essential for the operation of all social subsystems. This is particularly true for the economy. In our view, therefore, each country should strive to find the optimum balance between the standards of control over the money flows of people on the one hand and to hinder the economic participation of individuals through bureaucratic other obstacles on the other. We believe that it is possible to establish a robust and effective control system that will effectively detect incorrect actions while acting discreetly and will not affect people's everyday lives. In the Group of Members, in particular, we will also support the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Act, which was adopted in 2016, has transposed into our legal order the European Directive, which was adopted a year earlier. The current law thus lays down measures, competent authorities and procedures for the detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and regulates the inspection of the implementation of its provisions. The intensity of developments and changes in the international and domestic business environment requires a new law. The proposal for a new law follows the following basic objectives: harmonising national legislation with the European acquis, improving risk management and more effective control. It also introduces some improvements in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system proposed by the debtors and the supervisory authorities and eliminates certain inconsistencies and uncertainties in the current system. It is proposed to mitigate certain obligations of the debtors as they are more stringent than the requirements of the Directive and other international standards in the current law and are therefore disproportionate in view of the risks identified. New tasks and obligations of the debtors shall be determined where there has been in practice a perception of insufficient risk management. New institutions or tools are also being introduced to help the debtors to implement more effectively the legal obligations and to manage the risks of such offences, while the supervisory authorities exercise more effective control. Additional powers shall also be conferred on supervisory authorities, criminal provisions shall be adapted. The categories of debtors providing virtual currency services will be aligned with the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. However, the provision concerning the data obtained for the purposes of the register of virtual currency service providers and the addition of serious infringements of this law to be deleted from that register shall be supplemented. The bill also provides for the replacement of European supervisory authorities with the European Banking Authority. An unregulated review of a customer without a personal presence is being introduced in cases of a minor risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. The conditions relating to video-electronic identification shall be deleted. There are limits to cash transactions on payments above the statutory threshold, as well as exceptions to the application of the provisions on the limits of cash operations to banks, savings offices and exchange offices. Money laundering is all procedures and processes for the use of money or property acquired through criminal offences aimed at obtaining the characteristics of legally acquired property. It is a crime that the state must prevent and suppress. The draft law complements the powers of the Office in order to effectively control the implementation of the obligations of business entities. The legal basis for access to the data of the Office by the primary supervisors is also laid down for the purposes of carrying out control based on the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. Therefore, recommendations and guidelines will be issued in respect of which a new Regulation will be adopted, which will further regulate the way in which these data are anonymised and transmitted. The bill interferes with the existing system and significantly improves it in order to better manage the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is also undeniable that in Slovenia we have the Inspection Control Act. Under this law, which has been in force since June 2002, 20 years therefore, it is clear that the inspector cannot enter the private premises of the debtor without the decision of the competent court. The quality of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing will depend on operators, employees at the office and in the other eight supervisory institutions, and from the Bank of Slovenia to the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! As you know, the National Assembly has already amended the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism twice in this mandate, for the last time in 2020. The proposal for a law that we have already considered in this National Assembly and that is being re-examined today does not yet constitute a transposition of EU rules into the Slovenian legal order. This is a completely different text as mentioned. In particular, from the comments of key stakeholders, we have been informed by Members that the Government has incorporated into the law new solutions that have nothing to do with the transposition of those Directives, but are even contrary to the EU's basic money laundering directive, namely Directive 2015/849. Moreover, contrary to the Slovenian and European Union rules on the protection of personal data and to the requirements set out in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular as regards the urgency and proportionality of these measures, they are incompatible with the practice of the Court of Justice of the EU and also with the numerous decisions of the Constitutional Court of our country. On the basis of those warnings, in particular the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Information Commissioner, the National Assembly, at its 29th meeting on 1 February 2022, rejected the draft law. Since the day the National Assembly rejected him, it has not been a month since the Government wants to reintroduce a slightly revised version of the law. It does not contain the most controversial anti-constitutional provision that would allow inspectors to enter our homes without a court order, but all of them remain the same. The proposal in question is, in the rest of the text, absolutely identical to the rejected proposal, except for some commas. Thus, violations of the rules of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia remain in the text of the law. All of this shows that, above all, the ruling SDS obviously wants to force itself before the April elections to adopt solutions that would make the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering run by its Director a supra-national body with more powers than the police and Sova combined in the area of data collection and processing. However, the powers of the Office regarding the processing of personal data and private interventions will be virtually unlimited and will, as already mentioned, exceed the powers of all other public authorities without having at all adequate safeguards to prevent abuse and to protect the rights of individuals in the operations of the Office. Through the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, the SDS will be given the largest database in the country, which will allow it to pressure opposition politicians, entrepreneurs and economists, individual journalists and, in particular, anyone who hopes to criticise their authority on the basis of anonymity. In addition, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we cannot agree that someone should designate an Information Officer for citing the 'unclaimed', as well as the fact that he has not been invited to the meeting of the Committee. The information officer shall be the independent and independent authority responsible for the supervision of the protection of personal data. We also point out in the parliamentary group that the Office's representative has been misled, who argued in the debate that the Office must have such extraordinary powers and that it is not a fugitive with such arrangements. Following international comparative reviews, the Republic of Slovenia has an exemplary legal order to combat the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and follows international standards, as only minor recommendations have been made on the necessary improvements in the final evaluation of international bodies in the area of money laundering. Those who have read their recommendations know that they do not require the creation of such an intelligence monster as the government has imagined because of some other needs. In fact, the trends in the functioning of these organisations in the world are even downplaying the supervisory powers that our office received in 2016. In the Group of Non-Related Members of the Law, in which the Government's staff, without adequate justification, have imposed provisions which are clearly inconsistent with EU and Constitution regulations, we will certainly not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, secretary of state and everyone else, colleagues and colleagues in the hall! The problem of the prevalence of organised and financial crime in relation to money laundering is becoming more and more urgent, and the risks in recent years have increased various forms of financing for terrorism. Criminal activities seek to create illegal property benefits. Money laundering poses a serious threat to the stability and integrity of financial institutions, undermines the stability and reputation of the financial sector of the country, threatens the internal market and its competitiveness and, above all, undermines confidence in the democratic institutions of modern society in the long term. The final objective of money laundering is the gradual inclusion of laundered money or assets in normal business flows, which form part of legitimate business activity or investment in existing or new criminal activity. In doing so, the people involved are very skilled, as we have seen in the case of Farrokh, who was sweeping under the rug. For this reason, Slovenia also joined in solving the problem and adopted the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act in 2016. With this law, we have transposed European Union rules on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing into Slovenia's legal order, which further regulate at the level of the European Union as a whole. It is based on EU Directive 2015/849. The provisions of that Directive have already been transposed into Slovenia in most cases by the original law. A proposal for a law that would continue to transpose the rules of the European Union into our legislation has recently been considered in the National Assembly, but has not been adopted because of the concerns of some Members regarding the powers of the inspector. With this bill, however, according to the representatives of the Government, these concerns are being resolved and the implementation of European regulations continues and improvements are being made in the functioning of the money laundering prevention system with a view to preserving the key principle of protecting the Slovenian financial system from the consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing. Most of the solutions are already contained in the 2016 law in force, which was passed under another government and therefore the members of the current opposition did not object to the adoption of this law but today they object. Understand who can! Thus, the Anti-Money Laundering Office has been operating with similar powers since 2016. A new paragraph is added in today's bill, which provides that a debtor who does not have a decision by a competent court may refuse to enter the premises. In this case, the inspector must obtain the court's consent. The following solutions are proposed on the basis of the comments and proposals of the debtors and the findings of the supervisory authorities: the completion of the dictatorship of certain existing provisions and new provisions that eliminate uncertainties; the mitigation of certain obligations of the debtors which are more stringent and disproportionate in the existing law; the completion of tasks and obligations of the debtors; the introduction of new institutions or tools; the additional powers of the supervisory authorities; the adaptation of criminal fines and the editorial improvement of the existing law. Money laundering is strongly linked to the financing of terrorism, which has become an extremely serious threat to peace and social development both at European and global level. It is therefore important that marriage solutions be distinguished at the highest possible level of the community. Money laundering is also problematic for tax evasion, making the state budget poor. It must therefore be mentioned and eradicated. However, since money launderers are actively engaged in innovative work, the law needs to be amended in a direct manner and so actively respond to the new situation. Although a number of comments were reiterated by the opposition Members on their persistent commitment to the work of the Government and were also made in writing by the Information Officer and the Legal and Legislative Service, we are of the view in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the representative of the Anti-Money Laundering Office has made it clear enough that the Republic of Slovenia is committed to taking into account international standards and recommendations of the international organisation for financial action, thus providing us with access to relevant international financial, administrative and other information, as well as to avoid that Slovenia would not be subject to a significant financial burden of up to a million euros, since we have already received two official warnings from the European Commission due to delays in the transposition of directives into the national legal order since the deadline for transposition was already in the previous year. For all of this, the proposal for a law on the prevention of laundering and financing of terrorism will be unitedly supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The law we are considering is almost identical to what the National Assembly rejected at its 29th regular meeting in February. As stated by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, it is substantively identical to the previous proposal and takes into account only comments relating to the warning concerning false convocations, the numbering of paragraphs and other similar shortcomings. However, there was nothing to take into account the extensive substantive comments on the proposed law at the time, except that paragraph 159 has now been amended, which provides that the debtor may refuse entry to the premises of an inspector who does not have a decision by the competent court. However, it still contains a number of provisions which do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the General Data Protection Regulation. In its broad opinion, she reiterated this point by the information officer, who was not invited at all. Thus, we have received only a unilateral representation of the facts by those who have prepared the proposal, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Office itself. The Office will still be able to collect data from virtually all records in the country. Banks, savings banks and other payment institutions will have to report to the Office all cash and non-cash transactions over €15 000, whether or not they are at risk under the criteria of money laundering or terrorist financing. The Office will report only to the Government and to the National Assembly, and at the same time it may reject the transmission of data to the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office and the police. The staff of the Office will also provide the data obtained to other authorities if they request financial information and analysis from the Office. To which authorities, three ministers would be appointed according to the bill; this is the Minister for Finance, Home Affairs and Justice. They are not bound by any criteria to decide who will be able to obtain the data. Your Honor, all of this opens up room for misuse of data for political and other purposes. We can already read that the new Head of the Office has decided to move the documentation on the matters that the Office has led in the last decade and a half. Moreover, it is increasingly said that employees should be pressured to deal with people who are not at the will of the ruling party. We will therefore strongly oppose the proposal of the law in the LMŠ and we will also vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the previous and final provisions have been tabled. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 42nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 42. On the agenda, this is to discuss the response of the Ministry of Culture, Dr. Vaska Simonita, to the business question of Sinter's support in relation to the provision of social security for self-employed persons in the event of an epidemic period. At its 29th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question sent by Primož Siter concerning the provision of social security for self-employed workers in events during the epidemic. I see A's here? [[…]] [[Yeah.]] I give the floor to Primož Siter for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, good afternoon! First of all, I should like to thank the assembly for having confirmed my intention to vote after an extension or debate on this important issue concerning the survival of the economic sector of the event activity and, on the other hand, the social situation of workers and workers in the performance activity. The covida-19 epidemic has cut into all seasons of society, including in the economic and creative field, and perhaps this is the most damaging part of the economy or the performing economic sector. Why? At the beginning of the epidemic, in March 2020, the venues were closed first. Today, after two years of the epidemic, the sites are still not fully open and cannot function in their full strength, and the people who create this industry cannot enjoy or create it, cannot work, cannot afford at least a handful of the social security that this type of employment offers. We have a very specific case ahead of us, although we also have a very uncertain employment sector, which is a performance activity. Under normal circumstances, without an epidemic, employment statistics are bad there. As many as 90% of the workers and workers in the showcases are on a permafrost basis. So, in a job that does not allow social security, in a job that does not allow credit, family planning, housing and so on. So, in a very precarious situation, the epidemic has hit so much more here with all its consequences. Of course, the organizers of the event, performing, actors, musicians, technical staff, lanterns, sound tones, producers and so on, the government gave up their fears, their concerns in this uncertain time, said that the concerts did not say that the rules for limiting government infections were unclear, inanimate, that no one listened to them, that everything they had was a ban on association and that otherwise the industry was living, as it said, on the shoulders of precarious employment with workers and workers living from project to project and did not know how they would survive already in normal circumstances, but now especially. According to the opinion of the organisers themselves, which were associated in such and other initiatives, in interest associations and so on, this figure is brutal, the decline in all activities in the performance industry was somewhere between 80 and 90 %. As a result, between 80% and 90% of job opportunities fell and the social security of all employees in this sector fell in between 80% and 90%. They addressed a number of initiatives, questions to the Ministry of Culture, to the Ministry of Economy, NIJZ, and the competent institutions played pinpong with them. One sent them to the other, the other to the third, and they were not answered. Like the organizers and workers in the performance sector, we have remained in the oral question to Minister Simoniti without answering, and I hope today that the answers to how these people should survive and how this industry should now be put on its feet after the epidemic. I am glad that we are talking about this at a regular meeting of the National Assembly, but I am sad that it was only at the last session of the Assembly that such an important topic came to the final session; at the last meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you there, too. I give the floor to the Minister for Culture, Dr. Vask Simoniti, for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor! On this issue of social security for self-employed persons, it has been said that many times, it has been said, not least that I have not answered the oral question, which, of course, is true. In the oral question, I have shown very clearly, without a doubt, what all the measures the Ministry of Culture has prepared to facilitate this time of epidemic, which has affected everyone, of course, including the people who are involved in this activity, which has been discussed; that is, the events and, or self-employed in general, which are in the culture of our district. This was also answered by Minister Restorationšek in his written reply to the Member, and there have already been discussions in the Committee on Culture, so it will not be possible to add anything new and special. We'll probably get to know the same things. I would just like to say that, in addition to all those measures or activities carried out by the Ministry of Culture during the normal period of operation, that is to say, all public institutions, all of them received all the payments, all of them paid, all of which was a huge sum of money. In addition, the State has adopted 9 anti-Korona measures, including those with special attention to self-employed persons. These are those directly addressed by the Member in his previous statements that there are 10,000 people involved. But these are those who are employed and who are also self-employed, so of course these are much less. This is an area which concerns the number of people by at least 40% less than the Member has stated in his previous questions and performances. This is, of course, a much smaller direct impact on people, but they received all those ratings as well as others in accordance with anti-Korona measures. Thus, the Ministry of Culture, in addition to all the funds made available under the integrated budget, has provided a total of 110 million additional funds during this period. However, it is for people who represent, in fact, around 3.4% of the working population, who have also received such funds. Here's a whole bunch of things that we'll probably open up in the debate. I would also say that this position, this position of self-employed in culture, has been much more privileged or better than, say, in neighbouring Austria or in Germany. Therefore, the country has entered this area in an inappropriate manner and has been aware of all the problems associated with the epidemic and has acted responsibly, both within and within the Ministry and, of course, the Minister. In addition, the Minister of Economy is 31. 1. 2022 issued a call for applications for reimbursement of all costs that the organisers of this cultural industry may declare. And, of course, there is also a space here that will restore the possible impact of those who have been or have been affected, but will have to prove it with certain evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't you want to introduce yourself? That's what they wrote us. Okay. Let's move on. The positions of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. At the last regular meeting, a proposal was put forward for a debate on the question of the question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Vask Simoniti, concerning the provision of social security for self-employed persons in the event activity. The Minister of Culture has already stated in his reply the measures relating to self-employed persons in general culture and culture in the course of the epidemic, and has also mentioned measures in the field of events. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are pleased that we have been able to present and adopt a record-high budget for all segments of culture this year. We are aware, however, that some areas of culture remain undernourished and that more resources should be allocated to them. This is mainly the area of audiovisual art, which would require comprehensive legislative updates in addition to financial resources in order to follow the situation in the European and global markets. Following the example of neighbouring countries, the scope of the mechanism should be increased to provide monetary returns for investment in domestic and foreign audiovisual production in Slovenia. Slovenian culture is a treasurer of the creativity and identity of the Slovenian people throughout the centuries. Without Slovenian culture and Slovenian language as its identity core today, we would not have a country of our own. We promote cultural creativity and enable effective communication in a modern, interesting and opinional very diverse society. Our cultural policy is committed to freedom of expression and to allow access to the widest range of cultural offerings. To this end, balanced care is needed for the central cultural institutions and the decentralised network of theatres, libraries, galleries, museums and other institutions throughout the country. Support for amateur cultural activities is also extremely important, as it plays an important role in the development and quality of life of an individual in local environments and greatly contributes to the construction of the public. We advocate to regulate the status of self-employed in culture by improving material possibilities for their operation. As part of the payment of contributions to self-employed people in culture, it is necessary to introduce a distinction between promoting excellence, quality and social adjustment in the payment of contributions. We must not compare that cultural workers and self-employed people in culture are social problems. For those most vulnerable who are hungry, do not have a roof over their heads, money to pay for contributions, we have social work centres that can take care of all those who cannot help themselves to survive the worst period, and then they stand on their feet and take care of themselves and their family. The payment of contributions to culturers and artists must not be a social correction, but is intended to promote their creativity. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken care of all those most affected by the covida-109 epidemic in a variety of ways. In the framework of the CAP, self-employed people in culture were provided with basic monthly income, paid social security contributions and allowed all citizens to use tourist vouchers in 2021, which are still valid, for culture, cultural events, book purchases, show tours and so on. In addition, the Ministry of Culture has provided and even increased funds in relation to funds before the epidemic for the functioning of the cultural sector, where self-employed people also belong in culture. All programme and project calls have been made in the same or even higher financial scope for NGOs and self-employed in culture as they have been in the past. In the light of the covida-19 epidemic situation, the Ministry of Culture has also taken into account all adaptations to the implementation of the programmes, for example, the performance of the performance through digital platforms, which we know represent a much smaller financial contribution, even though we agree and realize that this results in the quality of the activities carried out. The Ministry has also offered job scholarships for self-employed people in culture. The tender was concluded in early 2022 and provided for 52 work scholarships. The response of self-employed people in culture was poor, since not a third of the scholarships awarded were registered. During the course of operations, ongoing calls were also made at the Ministry under cohesion funds, which provide additional financial means for self-employed people in culture. However, the Ministry of Culture has also advocated culture and cultural activities in the area of the release of measures to combat the covida-19 epidemic, as Slovenia was among the first countries to allow cultural activities, museum visits, galleries and libraries, of course, under certain conditions. In view of the above-mentioned facts in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats note that the Ministry of Culture, during and after the covida-19 epidemic, has devoted a great deal of support to self-employed people in culture, culture and events, as it has devoted much more resources to them than before the outbreak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the SAB Group, we do not blind ourselves to the fact that the Ministry of Culture in the case of self-employed persons has not done much with all the numbers that have been set up by the record GDP and the budgets with which government advocates boast. Culturers are living, and at this time the Ministry of Culture has destroyed the media landscape, has placed their unqualified people at the head of public media and public institutions, has financially exhausted the STA and other institutions and NGOs in culture. A systematic rejection of dialogue with culturers or a lack of elegance was avoided. Just rejecting the dialogue is one of the main shortcomings of the current tendering policy of the Ministry in cultural projects. The level of funding for the non-governmental sector has been defined in proportion to the government's opinion on its non-diggage status. In this denial of the need for a non-governmental sector, we are aware that NGOs are not an alternative, but a legal form of organising a civil initiative. We do not agree that NGOs are treated as some kind of addition to the scene of the active country by the degree of autonomy, but we see them as key stakeholders of the cultural landscape, designed by four, of course, different but pillars: public institutions, NGOs, self-employed and amateur culture. In the SAB party, we estimate that the Ministry's responsibility for decisions is completely misplaced. The members of the Commissions appointed by this Government shall not suffer the consequences when they make a negative decision and the Ministry shall be in breach of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture as well as the Law on Administrative Procedure. However, because of the intentional fog created, it is not possible to determine who is responsible for the Ministry's decisions when the notifier considers that he is injured. For example, the Regulation of Minister Simoniti provides that members of the original committees and copies of documents must not keep the application either physically or electronically, so that anyone can later correct the opinions of the committees and its members or withdraw part of the documentation. Such a system, which was prophetically described by George Orwell in his 1984 novel, allows for the intervention of vengeful tendencies, protectionism, and rematchism. The Minister shoots at all these slogans, turning the Ministry into a social correction, not being inclined to do so, because he believes that the Ministry is primarily a strong supporter of creativity, while other ministries are primarily responsible for other things. It also deletes the provision to make public decisions after the decision of the expert commission has been completed. For a transparent procedure, the opinion of the Commission should be published at least online. Isn't it paranoid that in a country that has a prioritization, cultural digital silence becomes its solution? The cultural-creative sector with its dual nature, which is cultural on the one hand and economic on the other, had to close its doors first and was the last which it has not yet fully opened. Therefore, normal social security is far from possible for all employees, let alone self-employed. Self-employed persons are the most vulnerable, have no social and financial security, are discriminated against in the area of hospital compensation and how income is dealt with and their situation deteriorated during the epidemic. Transport in the cultural-creative sector has fallen dramatically. The self-employed are employers and employees at the same time, a quarter of them earn less than the lowest wage, and the hospital's pay of 25 euros a day is extremely low. In the European Union, the question is no longer whether it is advisable to support the creative and cultural sector, but how to ensure that its effects also affect economic growth. However, the Slovenian government does not hide its dilemma why it supports the cultural and creative sector. The Ministry of Culture, as if it did not know the measures taken by other sources, wrongly claims that culture was one of those sources that was clearly identified and financially strengthened in the pandemic situation. There is nothing more than a finding that the Ministry of Culture is dealing with a problem that should otherwise be well-known and addressed. The consequences of the epidemic are already showing up in this area, and the escalating expensiveness may cause Slovenia to lose its creativity. The latest innovation of the Ministry of Finance is with the silent assistance of the Ministry of Culture, so that the social contributions of self-employed people in culture will be added to new incomes, higher government backlogs and transfers. Over the last two years, life for self-employed people in culture has become an unforgivable struggle without hope of victory. More and more of the other industries are working again, employees were receiving compensation or working from home during the epidemic, and they were paid when they had children in quarantine. Since July 2021, self-employed people in culture have not been entitled to any assistance, although the activities with which they survive have been disabled all the time. Public cultural life is merely awakening from a two - year - old’s death. Among the self-employed in culture are artists, some of them top artists, young and mature, on which we are proud, who before the pandemic were successful, financially independent and lived with their work and creation. There are many of them all of a sudden before they are in a serious crisis of existence and creative spirit. The fact that Slovenian artists are barely living means the convulsion of our culture with the ignorance of the government and the department. They gloat over their agony when they preach through Twitter trolls to revenge for participating in Friday’s protests. Between us, in the National Assembly, a culturally unsympathetic, culturally unsympathetic, culturally offensive coalition majority on the Committee on Culture will not allow any decision to be taken if it is not ordered or approved by the Cabinet of the Government. Therefore, any progressive proposal instead of adoption has only become a rejected proposal, even though we have been throwing ourselves at the opposition to the teeth to justify the necessity of its application. In the SAB, we did everything we could under such unrelenting circumstances. We have achieved that all employees with severe diseases and injuries and, as a result, with longer hospital stay from work will receive payment after 20 days, instead of 30 days. Anyone who finds himself in a situation where you don't know how you're going to survive and if you're going to survive in the future, those 10 days paid that he doesn't have to provide for himself are worth it. In the SAB Group, we are aware that the accessibility of Slovenian culture is the essence of a creative breakthrough that will bring about the development of each of us and society as a whole, so we want to enable artistic creators, especially young people, to develop their potential. Among them are the most self-employed who have suffered under this government mass retraining from academic artists to food dispensers. We do not want a repeat of the cultural policy led by this government, and we will not support the grave political recruitment in the public cultural sector, which has translated culture into the colour of non-culture in just two years. One thing is certain, however, that neglect, defiance and suffering of the culturers does not leave no consequences or for a short time, but only in the long run. Like the unfortunate food deliveryman who ate the burek, as well as without the mask, the 400-euro penalty will be met by the government coalition on April 24th, with a song of no less than 400 thousand throats. What song will this be, when Studio City was ordered to be suspended, was announced by Marcel Štefančič; Bella ciao is a musical wish that will come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. It will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Good-bye! In his reply to Member Primož Siter's question, Minister Vasko Simoniti said what was happening during the period of coronary disease, which affected all sectors designed for self-employed people in the event. For self-employed, a basic monthly income was allocated, a return on social security contributions; as you know, we also introduced cultural activity vouchers. We know that the resources for culture at the time of this government are the most in all the history of Slovenia, and a high share is also devoted to self-employed people, who must be admitted that they did not live very richly before the crisis. Surely, the epidemic has affected them, like everyone else, and we have tried to alleviate these hardships by means of measures. We estimate it's a success. Indeed, there were no events during the Coronavirus epidemic, so many found themselves, had concerts online, performed concerts for smaller groups. All those who are employed in events that set up lights, stage lights, techniques, whistleblowers were assisted in the form of a basic monthly income to survive the time when there were no events due to the coronavirus. As you know, we have adopted 10 anti-Korona packages in the National Assembly to help all employees in different areas, including self-employed ones. All calls for proposals have also been made for self-employed persons to apply for the event activities. Various forms of work scholarships have been awarded, but the invitation to tender for self-employed scholarships in culture, which ended at the beginning of last year, at the beginning of this year, pardon, showed an extremely poor response to self-employed persons, as not a third of the 52 job scholarships signed up. Additional funding of €86 million for culture from the Recovery and Resistance Plan has been provided, which will also enable self-employed people in culture to have a number of planned projects. In the SDS, we believe that the question raised has been answered and that is why we did not vote in favour of the discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Chairman, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The problems faced and faced by the creative and cultural sector have been pointed out in the LMŠ practically since the outbreak. We have systematically stressed that, in particular, the event activity is in the dead course, so targeted measures are needed not only at the end of the epidemic, but also today in terms of revitalising such an important area for the country's cultural pulse and its economy. More or less, we have stumbled upon deaf ears than, of course, we are accustomed to this government, even though our proposals were based on a realistic basis, but they were particularly well-intentioned. So, not only as primary, this is true for the opposition, we have called on the government's actions, but at the same time we have brought proposals to the table creatively. What are we talking about? We felt that the government representatives did not want to hear us, but often also that they simply did not realize the magnitude of the problems, how many people from the industry have been seriously affected by the crisis. The underestimating relationship has also been reflected in the complete absence, in the notes of course, of a specific meeting plan for the industry, which would provide for specific practical measures with changing epidemiological proportions both by the organisers and by the aid of the State. The planners would also have a clear view of the planned measures in view of the epidemiological picture for a longer period of time, which is of course crucial as events take place several months in advance. While some countries have already recorded the growth of visitors with similar epidemiological images, our decision to implement cultural events has been constantly changed from one day to the next. Finally, in November 2020/21, they increased disproportionately a few weeks later, which, of course, turned people away from participation and caused an even deeper crisis in the event sector. Even then, we warned the LMSH that this was not the best. From the mouth of government representatives, we have listened to more or less bureaucraticly framed mantras on the continuous financing of projects and programmes of public institutions, where self-employed persons from the sector are also contractually involved. Which is okay, and it is true that despite the initial incomprehensible financial balance sheet, the Government has taken action with a basic income to qualify for the aid due to the loss of revenue. However, the Government in LMŠ resents the fact that the cultural and creative sector has creatively paralysed it and put it into hibernation and provided it with state aid through the chapel, despite the fact that the sector earns more than half of the money on the market and that national calls and EU funds amounted to only 10% of all revenue in 2019. Thus, the employees were completely out of work, many specialised personnel had gone away and would never return to this industry again. This will take much more time to recover, as human resources are simply lost. Let me also mention that it would be quite enough if the Government, for example, only looked at the border edge, where countries such as Finland, Ireland, Spain, in addition to replacing income shortfalls, have also developed so-called specific funds that have enabled and encouraged the creation of adapted formats of events and have sought to strengthen the community in the area of culture. Nor can we in the LMŠ be past the fact that the Ministry of Culture at that time has not been able to overcome any autonomous reserve mechanism to help the areas under its auspices, but has left them to the economic expert group. So we are still listening to a plural professional community that can study and propose crisis measures for the cultural sector competently. We need strategic reflection, but if you want a measure of security, the state will also stand for organisers. As it is therefore a major market activity, when we are speaking of the event sector, competence is divided into the Ministry of Economic Affairs in addition to the Ministry of Culture. We have often been faced with the passing of the ball between one and the other department. In LMŠ, we will also forget hard how government representatives each pushed their own heads into the sand to block funding for Slovenian film production for a year, despite orchestrated calls from the opposition and the interested public. Following experience in dealing with the Coronavirus epidemic, it would be logical for the responsible government to expect that it already has pre-prepared measures to help individual sectors whose operations are limited or banned and to enforce them in this situation, for it itself has prohibited them with illogical, new decisions every other day. With the resurgence of the infections that we are witnessing again, the problems will come back to life, and I hope that we will not have to say again that we have not learned anything from this. It is therefore high time that we approach this with a greater degree of responsibility for emergency measures and, on the other hand, that we devise long-term measures for the sector's resilience in the face of critical situations. I will not talk about all possible versions of the measures in this place, and I will not repeat them all. However, I would just like to point out that, in addition to the basic measures for social security and, secondly, the liquidity of enterprises in the industry for LMŠ is also very important for the recovery of the industry with dedicated start-up capital, which will restore people's confidence and faith that it is worth staying and working. Not even the ones left in this industry. Finally, if you do not listen to the opposition, listen to at least the people who live in this work because they deserve a greater degree of seriousness in keeping their promises and, above all, outside the framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Sonibo Knezak will be presented as the last position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Two years ago, we experienced what no one in the darkest dreams had ever dreamed of – the outbreak of a virus that spread at an incredible rate around the world, affected everything, regardless of status, social situation, race, skin or color, national or religious affiliation. An epidemic has been declared. We were imprisoned in homes, congregations, and regions. Schools, kindergartens stayed closed, public transportation stopped. Public life stopped, and so also the event activity, concerts, cultural and sports events, performances, meetings, congresses over the night as the first economic activity was inextricably closed. Today, in March 2022, it is only slowly awakening and with uncertainty looking to the future. At the January meeting, a fellow Member of the Ministry of Culture and Economy raised questions relating to the possible effectiveness of the aid strategies for the event industry and its workers, and what effective mechanisms the organisers, businesses and employees can expect and benefit from for survival. As I have already mentioned, employees in the meeting industry are slowly reviving their activities and therefore there was also a question of a colleague on the ground, which is the industry's prospects for a return to normal start. Throughout the epidemic and the government's response to the consequences of the epidemic, social democrats have drawn attention to the meeting industry. According to the data of the affected industry, the organization of meetings of events in Slovenia is directly linked to 15 000 employees in industry meetings, including more than 20 000 self-employed entrepreneurs, self-employed part-time workers in culture and creativity whose work and activities are mainly related to the preparation and implementation of events. According to the business sector, at least two thousand jobs in 350 companies were directly threatened during this epidemic period. In response, the Minister of Culture indicated a number of measures for self-employed persons: basic monthly income, reimbursement of social security contributions, cultural activity vouchers. Over the past two years, all current funds have also been provided for the functioning of the cultural sector by self-employed people in culture, to a much larger extent than before the epidemic. The Minister also stated that all planned programme and project calls for NGOs and self-employed people in culture were equal or even higher than in previous years. Public institutions have received all funds for planned programmes, including for the implementation of planned contracts with self-employed people in culture. During the duration of the covida-19 epidemic, alternative forms of online events or in any other adapted form were taken into account in the implementation, irrespective of the smaller number of visitors. And if, at the Ministry of Culture, they have really followed all processes so carefully and responsibly during this two-year crisis and with financial injections and with great attention to self-employed people, we wonder why this sector is still fighting for survival. Your Honor! At this point, it is right to warn or recall how industries were dealt with at the time of the epidemic and how the rules changed, while the rulings violated them. The absurdity of government understanding and action finally spread to last year's Slovenian cultural holiday, when Minister Restorationšek and his colleagues for the place of official business to business meeting chose a guest restaurant. Following media disclosure that the number of participants has exceeded the restrictions on food services, the ruling violators have made excuses for official duties and exceptions to government decisions that should allow for business activities and meetings and for joint feeding in closed premises, if only the purpose of the meeting is true. I cite only one of the many examples of how the ruling team has steered and played among its own rules and measures, or, as individuals, have even been enriched by government measures. Meanwhile, many employees and self - workers humbly asked for help in surviving themselves and their families. The two years-long epidemic has affected many deeply, and it has changed many lives, as have the self-employed in the meeting industry. It would therefore be right for both the Ministry of Culture and Economic Affairs, together with the affected, to have an interview and to take the path of revitalising the meeting industry together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Before moving to the list of speakers, the motioner, Mr Primož Siter, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much also to all, the Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, for these devoted views on this important subject. Let me respond to some of the things you've said, especially Minister Simoniti at your address. We have two problems ahead of us — as I pointed out in the original parliamentary question. One problem when we talk about the social situation of workers and workers in performing is how to survive this epidemic. It is said that when everything fell to the ground, when the scenes were closed and still not fully opened, how to bite this period and survive: how to pay the bills, how to buy, survive the children, how to pay the credit, rent or anything. And now, Minister, I will answer you – and I haven't really challenged you –; the question is not what the Government has done here at the PKP level, at the level of the contributions paid, these are the measurable things that you can always serve. Also, Minister, your client colleague, Alenka Jeraj, served the information that this year's budget on the cultural agenda is record-breaking. And that's quantifiable data. No one can contradict you here. But the question here is, how did all of this move into the life of culture? In what way did they have any of this — who? – people who live in culture, who create culture. I think we have a structural problem or structural misunderstanding here when the government sees culture's life first in bureaucracy, infrastructure and so on and then in people. In Levica or the democratic opposition, we have actually put this thing on its feet and we understand that people are creating culture. That is why so much emphasis is placed on taking care of them first, their creation, their social security and their security. And that is why there is a criticism at the point of why investment decisions, aids, anti-korona packages and so on have not been invited in the field of culture and have involved people living in these problems in dialogue. That is why my original question, Minister, was how the Government participates in dialogue with organisers, organisers, performers, players, musicians, technical staff in solving this current and acute problem of sector survival. I asked very carefully how many meetings you invited them to, how many meetings they sat with the Ministry, and what conclusions they reached. And then I move on to another point of how, if, in this dialogue, a broader consensus has been created – which is also one of the previous speakers pointed out – whether it has been raised how, at this time, this sector has been so brutally poor since the epidemic, when it has not been living or breathing on gills for two years, it has been said domestically when people were going abroad, or in other professions, or on bicycles to drive for Wolft or anything; a highly educated and professional cadre when infrastructure was sold out when there was no new start-up. So, how do you find this new launch? This, I think, is two key issues that remain open here, or at the same time critics from the cultural map, people who live and create culture, to the government. Of course, the absence of this dialogue and the absence of evaluation of the work so far, the absence of asking someone, "Hey, it's okay, but you can do it, but you can do it, you can do it as a self-employed worker in culture, can you, as a owner and manager of a company that lives in this sector, be able to do it? This question, this feedback ministry has never received by its fault; not that the terrain itself would not want it. And people with good ideas came along. I believe that a few more debates will open up now and I will be a couple of testimonies if you want, or a few calls that have occurred on a cultural map among culturers who have fallen into social distress, I will also mention them. For now, let it remain on this question, which I did not get from the Minister, originally. So, in whatever way, to what extent did he participate in making any decisions that would help cultural and cultural people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The first debate will be by Mrs Violeta Tomić, which will be prepared by Mr Jožef Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All present, Minister! It is not surprising to me that Comrade Siter has not received an answer from the Minister, because we are constantly facing this total arrogance of this power and, above all, one such deplorable, hostile attitude towards culture, but especially to cultural creators who are not to their degree, do not understand them and do not want them. It's the kind of thing you have to suffer. We must be aware that we are all always connected and, above all, all sectors are connected. You can't head one sector and expect others to prosper so much better. As the meeting industry says, it must also be seen as one branch of the economic sector, which is linked to many others. Where the festival is, we know how to encourage tourism, overnight stays, how agricultural products are sold and so on. So, for ideological reasons, it is completely irrational and incomprehensible to toss one economic sector. And all these other sectors that I was talking about, after these two years of epidemics, somehow, more or less, got picked up. For cultural and creative activities, especially for self-employed people in culture, the state of the crisis continues because the Government in its anti-Korona packages has completely neglected the area of culture, cultural life has died, performing and performing workers and concert activities have lost their jobs and income. And it is clear to all that the cultural and creative sector urgently needs a recovery strategy. Now, of course, when coalition MPs boast with a record budget, because they got UTD, it's too much, too much cynicism and shame on cultural creators. They want to work, and you give them 700 euros, from which they can't not live or die, and you wash your hands and the record budget gets nothing back. If we had invested and had wisely guided cultural policy, which, of course, there was no way in this mandate, as any investment in culture would have many returns, it would have a multiple multiplier effect, and there would have been something out of these record budgets. And the fact that Minister Shircelj, Minister of Finance, here replied that this UTD bailout would not go into censorship, would not be taxed, but then it happened that the self-employed in culture did not know where they belonged: whether they report it or not, whether it was taxed or not. At the same time, of course, the extreme right foot in hand with the Roman Catholic Church, which at the time of the crown, when there is no work, has also received, as well, every church employee of EUR 700 as self-employed in culture, and allow me to compare because they belong to the same sector and the culturers are so much stigmatized towards these others. Religious employees have room for their exercises, do not need to hire them; they also have room for performances and do not need to hire them. They live in buildings where they do not have to pay the bills, of course they do not have the censor, as do self-employed people in culture who lose the right to pay social contributions when they exceed some 20 000 euros a year. And they also do not need to prove any excellence that self-employed people in culture have to prove. Tell me, a respected coalition, where justice is. Where is a normal attitude towards citizens and citizens in such discrimination against self-employed persons? The non-governments that this coalition is so entrenched, it discredits and yet it creates. Not only are we represented abroad, which is not so in the case of the foregoing, because foreign corporations are at home in the Vatican, but they also pay taxes, respected citizens and citizens. All the NGOs that this government is spitting so hard! And let me tell you, I don't know, but the Delak Institute and the Laibach, which is world-renowned, is not good enough for this government. Why? Because they don't listen to Laibach. I'm sorry, I don't go to church either, and I'm not gonna say that like Metelkov, the whole regiment of Nun has to be moved out. They'd go crazy! You'd say we're totalitarians. We're dictators. And you're not dictators? No, they're not, they're not! Dictators aren't totalitarians. The cultural sector, which by default is critical, which always holds the mirror of every authority, does not like this government. Just like this government doesn't like the media. The media, which is when we read the report of your Urbania and the analysis of RTV reporting, is “a unilateral display, it’s an obvious abuse, a unilateral display ” I mean, where have we fallen in these poor two years? [[…]] And of course, the covida epidemic has helped this government, the totalitarian government, say bob beans, to completely destroy the cultural and artistic sector. Involuntary. For where did the money from the record budget go? The creator can't, if you release the action now, perform tomorrow. The work process takes time, theatre performance, concert, requires three months of organization. Who doesn't understand? And if he doesn't know what the action will be, he can't sign the event in three months. We, in the opposition, have called a huge meeting of the Committee on Culture, which we have even seen. We have proposed many conclusions, we have voted many conclusions that should be binding if we are still living in democracy, if this National Assembly has a function at all. But nothing happened. Minister Vasko Simoniti is pushing his screw and he doesn't care what we think if he doesn't like it, he even gets up and goes and says he can't listen. And no strategy was offered by the Ministry, no plan, no legislative package in the cultural and creative sectors, and no financial assistance for self-employed people in culture is given to me about the UTD, about the charity of €700! You go live with 700 euros a month! We creators need an incentive to create her. That's not it. I'll throw you a crust of bread and be quiet. It's a disgrace to have this relationship with culturers! And nothing about the opening of cultural institutions, nothing about adequate compensation for the loss of income from the sale of tickets in the cultural and creative sectors. There were actually a lot of calls, and Minister Vasco was nothing. And regardless of all the opposition's efforts and all the conclusions taken, this government is completely autonomous and deaf to anything that is not ideologically subordinate to their interests. That's a fact. This is a fact and let's stop pretending to be in democratic order! Let's stop because she's gone! And concerts, events, performances, meetings went out at the beginning of the epidemic and, of course, will be the last to be fully activated. Companies and establishments, organisers and their employees have been completely out of work for two years. Although the events have partly recovered, the organisers estimate that the sector has been crippled by around 85%. 85% of the industry went irreversibly to nothing. When someone tells me the Ministry supports creativity, it has some creativity!? What is creativity for you? The institutions where you set up your directors this is not about supporting creativity, it is about supporting some institutions that, by inertia, thank God, have been preserved. And jobs in these institutions were preserved, even though people had no jobs, but they had a normal salary. But there was a suicide among the self-employed. Genocid. And it is not negligible that events in this area employ about 10,000 people. And we can't just forget these 10,000 people. We can't just erase them! And these are highly educated, profiled people with international references. That's something that's unacceptable. In no country in Croatia had production all the time and took care of its own, and it is very close. [[…]] Only in Slovenia, in this poor, two million-dollar country, where Janez Janša, who received his 200,000 votes, has to kill everything and leave the burned land. Who's gonna solve this when he gets here? The next government. How? Of these 10,000 people in this event sector, which we are talking about today, only 10% of these workers and workers are regularly employed, while everyone else is busy in leisure, seasonal, project. And you, who have so much family value in your principles and words, do you know that these are also single mothers, single parents, families that live on it? In short, nine thousand workers and workers and their families are at risk. For their survival depends on attending these events, because it is their work, it is not their hobby. When you talk about culture, you always talk about certain hobbies. We have, I don't know, a drama ring. But wait! These people are educated, experienced, certified, and this is their profession. And every profession has to be paid with dignity, everyone. Who's gonna dig you for free? The roads won't dig if you don't pay for them. In short, this sector is totally dependent on attending the events and the conditions for their execution, or on some structural assistance from the State to that sector that was not. The worrying information is also that more than a third of the self-employed in culture lived under the poverty threshold before the crisis and lived between 500 and 1,000 euros. Net. Now it is a pure disaster and too highly qualified and internationally recognized actors are looking for their survival in retraining in other professions, as Primož says, they ride bicycles with Wolf food. But these people can be used in a better way, you know. They need to be given a chance. I don't know. Are they being punished for what they did to you? [[…]] Because that's how it looks. I'm sorry. This is doing irreparable damage to the entire sector, because, you know, it takes generations and generations and long years to train integrated creative teams. You can't drive food through Walt today, but tomorrow, say, run a show or be a good sounder at a concert. It's not working. I don't know how you don't understand these things. Apparently, you have been sitting too long in your messes, and you are confident that it is only reasonable that you should come here, read something, get your salary, and set up a destiny for other people; honest people, workers who pay taxes to sit here. I'm sorry, but this is terrible and unacceptable to me. The epidemic has not only revealed all the practicalities and underpayments of cultural workers, but has also revealed generational inequality, as younger creators have particularly difficult conditions for creation – these are birds that can never take off. Now imagine that you have a child who is gifted, good, working. It's hard to get, like, to the Academy of Theatres, Radio, Film and Television. You have to do acceptable, it's not enough that you just and then you can't do anything, get no conditions, get no status, because you didn't do enough and so on. [[…]] This is what Mrs Romana Krajnčan told you in her letter, which I saw in a television show that she has such a talented, miraculous son. Many artists also signed this letter and called on the Ministry of Culture to regulate the situation of self-employed people. Minister Vasko, nothing! I don't know, but if you believe in God, he'll judge you. These are ruined lives, destroyed families, destroyed young people and their prospects. It's hard for me, you know, in this debate, I feel really bad. In addition to the Ministry of Culture in the last two years [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] So please don't talk, go out and talk when I'm talking. I keep my mouth shut when you're talking, buddy. Seriously, please, it bothers me and deconcentrates me. SDS only when they like it, they all sit here like puppies, and when they don't like it, you make a cow. I ask at least so much respect for us, who are constantly in some subservient position here. In short, in addition to the fact that this Ministry of Culture has not done anything in the last two years to protect the sector, but has often done exactly the opposite. We know how many times we have had meetings on the problems of gaining self-employed status in culture, and the NGO distribution on Metelkova. And the whole calvary with the funding of the STA when the journalists had to work for free and when they were forced to kneel. In short, the problem with the media call is that it adopts rules on professional commissions without the consent of the profession, but we still have no dialogue groups and so on. But the special status of the yellow vests, the neo-Nazi organization, that's what we've given up! And they got the status of a special social interest. God help us, Slovenia. Really. This is probably one of my last speeches with you here in the National Assembly, and I will allow myself to say: God help us, Slovenia. You're awarding neo-Nazis as creators. Our educated and top-notch creators are being punished, treated as budget parasites, stigmatized. That's terrible. In 2022, unlike neo-Nazi Yellowjackets, a number of organisations in the field of performing art were left without the financial support of this Ministry, led by Mr Vasko Simoniti, who has a record budget. Where did the record budget go? I have asked this question many times, but I have not received an answer. But she did a great job of mutilating culturers, NGOs, and we've been listening to harsh propaganda against NGOs all the time, if the cultural-creative sector is highly dependent on the means that they're stuck on a state nursery, and in fact, it's just a lack of hatred. These same neonations of yours walked around the Metelks and wanted to beat up the creators. And if the extreme right had been able to look at the facts instead of extreme propaganda, we would have seen that, for 2019, estimates show that on average the whole sector earns 62% of the money by selling its services. 62! On the other hand, you have corporations that the state adds to the minimum – do you know how many? - but that's okay. In short, this sector does not depend so much on public money, but it needs some start-up funds or an understanding of the ministry that is supposed to take care of the cultural sector. My time has run out, and I believe some people have not been pleased to listen. And I thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, we have a procedural proposal from our colleague Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, colleague Tomić had a completely well-founded discussion and please, if you can calm down that nationalist circle there. I don't know if there are 10,000 people fighting for survival to ask questions about the social survival of culturers; that's what we're talking about today. [[…]] These are the questions we're looking for answers to. If it's worth yawning, smiling, and other mermaids who don't know exactly what they mean. Look, we have a key cultural, economic and social issue ahead of us, how the whole industry will survive today and what conditions it has for this epidemic to come out at all. This is not a debate to be answered by the groaning and mocking of other fellow Members. This is a debate to be answered with measurable answers. And the measurable answers are all we expect in the reasoned debate, as we expect from the Minister in the final stage, and we have already asked him four times the same questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. If you have addressed this procedural proposal to me by your colleague Siter, I really do care that it is in order when I lead. I've estimated that so far there has been no disorder in which I should have intervened, but I haven't noticed through the masks what you've noticed. So my interventions, then it's clear that she wasn't there. So far, we have a very correct debate, at least that's how I assess it. I suggest we proceed with it. The following is Mr Jožef Lenart, Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. So, the debate is on the subject of the crisis in the meeting industry, on the oral question of fellow Member Siter, who is 31. 1. At its 29th meeting, he actually asked the Minister how to ensure that the events were revived, and he also, of course, pointed out that there were many workers and also those who had a separate activity, espouses, in the crisis, after the events had actually been suspended for a long time or the so-called meeting industry. I must say, the Minister is already at this session 31. 1. Somehow answered, answered qualitatively, and also denied the claims that everything was wrong. We know that during the epidemic with the PKP, measures were, of course, prevented a number of social hardships, including those of cultural and independent artists, if we say so, of course, of culture, that at a time when their activity or nature, including cultural art, was stopped due to the spread of the disease that ate and took lives, that it also helped with the payment of contributions and, of course, those basic incomes. That is, it was human life, for ours and for yours, the proponents, and, of course, for the protection of the lives of culturers, artists, creators, organizers of events, including workers in all kinds of industry meetings. And, of course, it is for these that fellow Member Siter has somehow taken up himself today and then with that oral question of the Member of Parliament. In this way, I must say somehow that the first measure of all ministers, and also this, was to restrict enlargement by measures. As he said at one of the meetings where he was convicted at the time, since we had more – I think we were together with the filmmakers here, he said nicely that at the Ministry they are trying and that culturers and also filmmakers are not alone, but the problem is being solved. Of course, all the measures that were exposed could not be solved overnight and their consequences could not be solved overnight. Thus, somehow, the rise of infections gave rise to some measures, incursions that closed the activity: cinematographers, other events, theatres, and, of course, to a different situation called covid situation then also opened up. So I will say that it does not seem fair to me, because we all know that quite a bit at the time, in respect of these measures, there was some way of looking over their fingers and also saying that these measures would not be respected. If we respected each other, there would probably be a lot of events today in an ever-increasing start, and now it's showing with a finger that it's all going down again. But believe me, everything doesn't go down, that successful artists and also successful event organizers will survive. I'm going to say, with the epidemic getting so angry that we can go back to concerts, to movies, to theatres and other events, that this basic matter was somehow provided by this minister and by this government. Of course, it is very important that we have good economic growth, that we have good employment, that working people work and that these working people also have money to go to events and that they go to cinemas and, of course, spend more when they have money, and that will certainly make things better for us in a short time. Of course, somehow the government can, by certain measures, and we can, somehow help to that basic extent, but I cannot possibly understand that it is also expected from the proposer that this minister will also mitigate those parts of market activities that do not fall under his ministry. And not this Minister and not Mr. Restoration, Minister of the Economy, no one can actually help much to make a good artist capable or incapable of somehow surviving. This is how I respect this government, and I also respect the proposaler's opinion that he is trying to protect the cultural sphere, this event organiser and so on. But if we are discovered, even in any other industry, including entrepreneurs, even farmers, there have been various emergencies when someone, I don't know, had a year or two open espa, but it's almost impossible not to experience any downturns and some extraordinary conditions. I don't know if, say, he had a financial crisis, or an economic crisis, or maybe some natural disaster that had driven him off the track, but he had to get back. Thus, the Minister of Culture and we here cannot buy tickets for cinematographers, where movies do not go around, we cannot buy tickets for events, different concerts that do not take place, but we can be partially cushioned. When I went to work here today, I met with a farmer, we talked quickly about the subject of today's meeting and said: “Yes, because it is right that he somehow cares about everything, including culture, but see, when we lost our sugar factory in Ormož in Styria, we lost half of our income in Styria during the night. No one told me at that moment, but now you're gonna get some compensation, but I had to adjust and start sowing something else overnight. I think 10,000 hectares were planted with this, and overnight there was no more redemption." Thus, if we are to be honest, somehow the ministers' working team has also spent many hours here because of some unrealistic requirements, and I must say that sometimes, of course sometimes, sometimes, not always – even this time probably would have been better for us and for the culturers in this loving country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Get ready for her, Mrs. Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Hello again, everyone! Comrade Lenart, the minister is paid to listen here to the Members, because we put him there, given that you said earlier that you could do something somewhere else smarter, but okay. I don't have much time. I'll try to be very short. I will focus on the event activity, which is the meeting industry as such, not on everything else, but some things still need to be said for starters. Indeed, measures at the beginning of the co-crisis have shown a complete lack of understanding of self-employed people, even in the event activities of this government. In fact, at the beginning of the epidemic, only those self-employed who could show a 25% reduction in income in March compared to the month before or at least 50% reduction in income in April or May compared to February were entitled to aid under the intervention law. That's how it started. Now, given that most self-employed people in culture do not receive the same amount of income each month, that they are also paid for projects, some even once a year or even for a season, such a balance sheet was completely inappropriate for them, as we also in the LMŠ immediately warned the Ministry. What happened? Nothing. Then all those conflicts started, if you remember the NGOs, where the LMŠ said the Minister should have stepped down immediately, and I will also list why we said that at the time: precisely because of his attitude towards self-employed people, because he was clearly in violation of the legislation. And I'll list it because you've probably forgotten, Minister, what you've done. The Ministry has violated Article 87 of the ZUIK and the related provision in the Regulation on Self-Employed Persons in Culture, which provides that individuals who submit both applications at the same time must adopt decisions for both status and right. You've done it a little smooth. Plus you broke the ZUP because you had to make a decision in 60 days, and you didn't do it either. Well, then there was that famous attack on culturers, I'm specifically talking about Zlatko, where a legally totally flawed decision was issued and, of course, to a variety of culturers because he was not the only, irreparable personal damage caused. That is why, when we monitored and watched all this and at the time when we were preparing the LMŠ 2022-2026 programme in LMŠ, then explicitly noted the improvement of the position of self-employed and non-governmental sectors in culture. Indeed, the non-governmental sector and the self-employed in culture, which contribute to the greatest extent to the diversity and diversity of cultural sector creation, were in a very vulnerable position before the epidemic. The epidemic and then those famous measures with those decrees at the night sessions, when 18 people terrorized two million people, of course, led them to a break. Therefore, serious developmental and systemic changes or measures are needed in this area. There is a need to establish a balanced relationship and reciprocity between the development of all four sectors of culture; these are professional, amateur NGOs, self-employed, public and private sectors. All of this needs to be balanced and, of course, taken with the same degree of respect. Secondly, it is also necessary to establish a fund to remedy the consequences and a targeted scholarship policy for employees to help address the consequences of the epidemic for self-employed and NGOs. This is our next plan in the LMSH program. There is also a need to draw up a umbrella legislation for NGOs in the field of culture and to adopt regional strategies for the development of NGOs. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Can you just give me a second? Can't you, colleague Jeraj? It is totally inappropriate for you to yell in the debate at the Member of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	I apologize to my colleague Jeraev. NGOs, not NGOs. You are right, we speak Slovenian in the Slovenian Parliament. At the time when Minister Simonita became Minister, I was actually hoping that the self-employed would devote themselves to saying that there were some better times, because he himself said in the past that the current system of self-employed people did not work and that he was creating state poverty in culture. What I agree with him, so I also said: “Bravo! If anyone does, Simonita will safely resolve it." Well, of course I was wrong, because what Minister Simoniti said at the time was somehow his way if I translate – first look at who these disruptive elements are, you deal with them one way or another, as I said before, that he was obviously in violation of the legislation and then make changes to the legislation in the model of the media package, if you remember three days, over the weekend, without public discussion of course. And then, of course, it turns out that Minister Simoniti speaks one language and does another, as this government does, of course. In fact, at the Ministry under this direction they do not understand that self-employed people in culture are not engenderers of the state budget, as they themselves say and encourage all those who support them to speak, repeat, and then, of course, spread such lies, but are an important part of cultural life, although culture is financially undervalued, they work and, of course, are not in the sight of the unemployed. I would just like to remind you that even at the time of the covide, these same self-employed people in culture read books, we could also watch a variety of shows, we could listen to music, they created on balconies, they created in front of homes for the elderly and so on. This is what these same parasites did to make it easier for people who were locked up in nursing homes at the time, even the first wave. At the Ministry under this direction they do not understand or want to understand because I am sure that the Minister understands this because he is intelligent enough, they do not want to understand the diversity of Slovenian cultural space and want to introduce cultural hegemony with the doctrine of shock. They stress that they have completely broken ties with civil society in the field of culture and cultural workers and workers, so their intervention in culture is accompanied by the weight of luggage in a way that is charged with non-governmental organisations, personnel cleaning in museums and continues its course. That's the one. Even if they have no competence, even if they have no skills, even if they have no education, there is no connection, they ignore the expertise in museums, they don't set up dialogue groups, that the long-term default on the debt to film makers and all those meetings that we had to force here, I don't even speak. The Ministry also clearly does not understand that the role of the State or the Ministry of Culture is to ensure cultural plurality, with its institutions, to support the diversity of expressions, but not to act as one that determines cultural tastes, i.e. as a regulator or even a repressive body. I would just like to recall that all cultural policy has so far sought to involve civil society in its decision-making and to bring together cultural artists and artists of various ideological views, because this way we can preserve the cultural plurality of artistic production. Now, every day, we have the feeling that we are witnessing rematching and choosing on the basis of purely and exclusively political colour, which, of course, we strongly condemn in the LMŠ. They also somehow do not want to understand that their intervention in the autonomy of artistic production and the suppression of the critical attitude or active citizenship of artists is based on the simple discrimination of the second and the attack on the highest civilisational achievements associated with racial, sexual and religious freedom. After 30 years of independent Slovenia, what has happened to us, of course, is what we strongly condemn in the LMŠ. The Ministry also obviously does not want to understand that as they want self-censorship from the media, and of course we can see it every day, even more and more on RTV – they also want culture and artists; they systematically create an artificial conflict between urban, rural, between the city and the countryside, and this is actually shown at all levels, especially in culture. Cultures want to take away the comprehensive meaning and modern post-modern culture or art want to display in any way as one who undermines the expected social order because of its independent criticism. According to them, we do not need art that is socially engaged, but we need only art that is relaxing in terms of leaving politics to politicians, and that art and culture should only be relaxing after hard work. And for the record, I don't have any problem with entertainment culture, but in LMŠ we think that culture is something else. And then all these things around the PKP happened and all the activities that we addressed in the LMŠ in somehow solving this industry of meetings and the creative cultural sector. We have already proposed in PKP 3 that the government should also take care in this package to keep the Slovenian industry meeting, because, of course, we expected it to pay particular attention to measures to keep companies operating in this key sector of Slovenian tourism, since it has closed them down, cut them off from today to tomorrow. Of course, you know what happened to all the PKPs and all the proposals the opposition made in all 10 PKPs. The effect was nothing. Because they didn't want to hear the opposition because they didn't want to take any of our proposals into account, but really none of our proposals, the LMŠ would expect the government, after two years of dealing with this epidemic and with all the known things around the epidemic, to have pre-prepared measures to help individual sectors whose operations it has actually banned. But of course we were wrong. Since it is totally unacceptable for the LMŠ to have been completely overlooked by the meeting industry and the fair activity and that the Government and the competent ministry must be repeatedly alerted and called for the necessary assistance for the survival of these sectors. We have not been heard, which makes me particularly sad, because the industry of fairs and meetings combines both congress tourism and the organisation of events and fairs. As we know, this has been completely closed, of course, things are now slowly opening up, but given the way this government has always acted again, it does not necessarily apply. Well, it is true that now is a new moment; it is called elections and that the President of the Government is going to be a soldier and a hero and he has no time to deal with domestic affairs because he has to solve some other things. Obviously. In this industry, by the way, about 15,000 people are employed, and in addition to this industry, about 20,000 other creators of so-called creative content depend on it. 90% are self-employed in culture, especially in the event area, which, of course, all of these epidemiological measures have been hit most and very strongly. The 14 months were completely closed and on average, according to data from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, so the company from this activity is recording a 61% drop in traffic and predicts a 63% drop in traffic in 2021 which we will of course see and now we can see when they submit these financial reports............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This means that a lot of people have actually left this industry, a lot of people will never return to this industry again, which means that we have lost a very important know-how that has been building for years and years and that we are very likely not to get it back. Many have also gone abroad and will share their knowledge there because we had no understanding. In the LMŠ, we have already offered and once again offer or propose a special fund that would allow and encourage the creation of adapted event formats, in the event that the case will be closed again, according to the number of infected people every day. I hope not, but it would be nice to think about it. And perhaps just to conclude, the minister said at the beginning of his presentation that the position for self-employed people in culture was inappropriately better than elsewhere, compared it with Austria, and said somehow that the country had taken a generous and generous approach to help all these self-employed people, and I am just adding, yes, because probably because you think well in your heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next debate is Mrs. Mojca Škrynjar, for whom Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much. My predecessor said that culture is different, and I agree with that. Of course, the culture of expression is also important. I see that the culture in this hall on the left has progressed from naming fascists to Nazis. Now we're more current Nazis because Putin said that all those who disagree with him are Nazis. It's also a culture of expression, yes. Also, in this hall, where the Slovene is a sacred thing, although we may be familiar with the English language, we have NGOs, NGOs, not NGOs, plus this is not a Slovenian term. Thus, if we are already discussing culture, let us be united and respect it fully. Personally, I think that when we thought about how important this is, in the coalition we also tabled the so-called ZOFVI, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where we added the objective of education for European values and Slovenian culture; many on the left then opposed us. But education for Slovenian culture also means that both self-employed and institutions are so self-sufficient that culture no longer needs to be taken as something that needs social transfers, but that culture is so valued that people like to enjoy these values. To decide whether to buy more beer, cigarettes, a better car or buy more books, pictures, subscribers in Philharmonic, undisputed and lean on this other side. And this is a matter of education for Slovenian culture, which is still missing in our schools, despite all efforts, because if it wasn't missing, then people would actually spend more money on culture. In fact, it is also known that things are changing, values are changing, because I am a member of two cultural institutions in Ljubljana, and I must say that the International Graphic Art Centre works very well. At first, I was very pleased that the Minister had provided this centre and other institutions with enough money to make people pay, that there was no problem that things worked. However, this centre has also created a lot on the market, so much so that I do not want to tell you how much surplus they have had and how good work performance they will now have. Of course, it is about how teams running such institutions also respond to how creative they are, they are good, and some really have to be commended. The cost of my taste is not a problem, at least not as much as the problem, what values we have, what we appreciate, what culture is, what it means to us. In fact, in a small nation like us, education for Slovenian culture is also the other side of the coin called patriotism. If we buy a picture of a Slovenian painter or a book by a Slovenian writer, we go to see a Slovenian film, which also contributes to the development of culture. And here's what we really should be working on. I'd really have a hard time reading something to the minister. I am even convinced that this is the best Minister for Culture that Slovenia has ever had. Look how long it's been preparing to build another, an additional part of the National University Library. How long has it been going on? And now it's in the government's agenda, and now things are about to actually start happening. We will get a new NUK, an additional building to our beautiful library of our world-renowned architect Plečnik. He protected Plečnik's stadium. According to plans made by Ljubljana based on a truly illegal cultural agreement that this Minister has removed, this Plečnik Stadium is supposed to be lost in a glass track near a hotel that is overshadowed by a shopping center. Look, this is not a respectful treatment of cultural heritage. The minister resisted. However, it did not do so uncultured, but very culturally; investors are, of course, talking about how to do things justly for them and fair to Slovenian culture and respect for the greatest, most famous Slovenian architect, Plečnik. We will also get the Museum of Slovenian Independence. This may not mean much to someone who did not have an intimate option in Slovenia, but it may be too much for him, but it is also a great achievement of this ministry. And as I say, patriotism is just the other side of the coin on the first side of which is culture. We need to make sure that culture lives on its own, that it does not depend on social transfers, because it is not worthy. This is not worthy either of culture or of us who enjoy culture. Not spiritual poverty, but spiritual prosperity is what we must desire. I think that Minister Simoniti has actually played an extremely important role in all of the meanings that we have mentioned today, which I am truly grateful to him as a Ljubljana girl. Thank you, Minister, for what you are doing for Ljubljana, of course even for all of Slovenia, but as a born Ljubljana girl I am expressing you deep respect and gratitude for what you have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Runczek dropped out of the debate. I don't see the next two debaters in the hall either, so I'm giving the word mags. Eleni Zavadlav Ušaj, Mr. Janez Moškrič is preparing for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings from the minister and colleagues and colleagues in the hall! Since this government, we've always heard the problems with culture the most. Even though this minister, Dr Vasko Simoniti, had dealt with culture in this way before, and he knew what the problems were in culture, he was also aware of the problems that have been faced by cultural people at all, not only this group we are talking about today, namely, self-employed people in events during the epidemic, and he also tried to come across them. But we are still at the end of the term and we are hearing that nothing has been guaranteed for them again. Dr Vasko Simoniti is the minister who provided a record budget for culture in 2021 and 2022. There have not been such high funds for culture, despite the fact that you are full of mouths in the opposition to KUL and we are always listening to how we should do something or what this government should add in the field of culture. A number of projects and investments are also being implemented in the area of culture, which for many years have not even been perceived to be in the budget, let alone in order to be implemented, have started under the mandate of this government. And the self-employed in culture have earned the same income as the rest of them at EUR 700, as well as the payment of social security contributions. However, it is necessary to recognise and look at the other side; as in the economy, so it is in the field of culture. The state cannot ensure that certain transfers are made indefinitely simply to support social security. It is necessary that, like the economy, other activities in the economy, some have had to be redirected, not to say that those we are dealing with today must be redirected, but rather temporary solutions. Temporaryly, if someone sees that his activity is inadequate or unable to survive with it, they simply need to help themselves. So it is in business, so it is in the economy and it is the same in the business of culture, not to say that this minister did not have a hearing for this group of people. Because I will not repeat myself and will not say again what was invested, whose investments were made, and how many times have we sat here in the National Assembly on the subject of various groups in culture. I would just like to emphasise that at the end of the term, let us at least acknowledge that it has been done as much as you did in your term of office you did not even think what you could do, but not to do. That is why I would also like to thank everything, including what the Minister in Nova Gorica has done in the direction of the European Capital of Culture, because in 2025 the Municipality of Nova Gorica, together with Gorica, will be the European Capital of Culture. Also with neighbouring municipalities, a cycle of events will take place throughout the year and are already intensively communicating with both ministries and with the congregation, what will be going on and what will be needed for infrastructure in that year. This way I see no reason here at all for today's debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Janez Muskrič, followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you so much for saying that. Today's agenda item discusses the social security of self-employed people in events during the epidemic. It is said that at the time of the epidemic, which affected the whole world, including Europe, Slovenia, there were limited events everywhere where people gather mass in halls of larger, smaller, concerts and so on. So, Slovenia shared the fate of the whole world. What about our culturers? Thus, our culturers and those working in this area, because this industry is accompanied by many others, but not on the list, if I may say so, of the self-employed in culture, all of them have suffered consequences. All of you. Above all, those supporting where classical especies and they were dependent, truly dependent, on the problem of non-executing their activities. But that, too, has been said to have been taken care of in the first PKP laws. But when we talk about self-employed people, in Slovenia we have a high degree of regulation in this area, where we can either be proud or even work against what we want from cultural workers. It's hard to judge. I've been tired of not understanding this culture many times, but still. The numbers speak for themselves. Facts are, I'd say my buddy Siter. The fact is that we have a large number of self-employed people in the culture that this country takes care of in the area of social security; what has also been the issue. By the way, what's this all about? The point is that these people are paid by the state. I've been a practically independent entrepreneur myself, so I know what it means to pay for my contributions. You get paid, you don't get paid, you have a job, it doesn't matter. Well, and for these contributions to self-employed people in culture, during the time of the minister and these governments even rose. So, from 402 euros to 425. So, social security has risen. The amount of contributions rose during this time, as all indicators went up in the country, thank God for the positive, they went up in this area. Therefore, we cannot say that this government or even this minister has lowered these standards. Not at all. However, as with existence, this National Assembly, the Committee on Culture below, will have to ask us, not now, five, six of us who remain here, whether it is right to have, say, 840 people working in the field of architecture and design and who are self-employed in a culture where they are limited in terms of their business. In fact, if they exceed this amount, which is now 20,000 and something else a year, then they no longer get paid by the state. That's what they're limited to. Why do I have to work, then I have to put it there, then I'm free on the market. These are questions for continuation. And that's in every art, performing art, we have 600 again and so forth, totaling 3 000 200. Here we have to ask ourselves, who really is he: young people at the beginning of the journey and maybe the high ones, and then in the end there is the problem with artists again. [[…]] And we've already figured that out. In the most intensive part of cultural creation, when man is at the height of creation, he does not need to be treated differently from the state, but rather to be co-financed by something. Because for him, the Euros don't mean much to you if he's an artist, it doesn't matter what field he's in. In the beginning, in the end, that. How long is this – this will be for the next meeting of the National Assembly, because here I think we have problems with comparisons with neighbouring countries. Because I know. At first, when I was an entrepreneur – okay, yeah, up to 25,000 you're not a taxpayer, great, great. Yeah, well, then you want to create, the business develops, and then you don't ask yourself if you're going to be a taxpayer or not, let's move on. And so it is in art, certainly, in all areas. These are questions, not social security. Social security in this country is so far well taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. In this year and next year, we also record a record number in the budget for culture. Let me remind you that in 2020, EUR 189 million was allocated to culture, EUR 2021 238 million and EUR 238 million for 2022. This means that, as in other areas, there is much more funding for investment in culture as well as for all programmes, scholarships, self-employed persons and all those working in culture, museums, theatres, galleries and so on. We know that in the past we have also had discussions about what culture is and what culture is not. If we look at the video, the performance by Jaše Jenulla, the main protestor in the country at the Ljubljana market, I wonder if this performance would be in the theater, how many tickets would I sell for my performance. Probably nothing. You can just jump and say half naked in the market, and that's one performance, that's culture, if you don't understand it, God help. I won't worry about whether it's a culture, whether someone would watch it or not, if they weren't forced to watch it when he went to the market to buy a salad, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, you'd obviously pay for a ticket to a show like this, I wouldn't. And we're different in this, and that's why we can look at different things, so it's right that culture is diverse and co-financed. However, as far as I know, Mr Jaša Jenul has the status of a solo artist and is, I think, even co-financed, so the state is paying him contributions. As it is said, there are enough resources, many of them, but they are always committed to what they should be. This is the case in all areas, and if one government decides not to spend any more money on certain things, it will be for what we really need them for, for example, for the homes of older citizens, for investments in health care and so on. It's just that it depends on every government what it spends its money on. This government has decided to give quite a lot of money for culture as well, and, of course, I support it because I, too, am a lover of culture as many others. At our meetings of the Committee on Culture, we have heard many times that there is little love culture without connection, that there is an alternative and I do not know what culture, even though there are many times more viewers in the culture than there are others. But, as it is said, for all cultural areas, for all, I will say, types, types of culture need to be provided and provided by this government. We guarantee them because we have voted in favour of such budgets, such a high budget for culture that we have never before had in this country, because money for Slovenian film, for theatres, museums, galleries, amateur culture, for self-employed people in culture and all those who work in culture. As I said in my opinion, I think it was answered. It was said what was done during this period for the self - employed. At times, however, some people feel more free to create, as they themselves think, and this is just one of the forms that this country supports. I think it's right to support her. In recent years, however, the number of self-employed people in culture has increased considerably, and it is also likely here that the criteria are appropriate, whether they have been distributed slightly in beautiful eyes and something similar to elsewhere; someone who may have met the conditions and earned the status did not get it, but someone else did. I wish that the budget for culture would remain high and that we would devote the resources it deserves to culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of reported debaters and are moving to the final part of the debate, in which we will give the floor to Mr Minister and the proposer in this order. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Yeah. Here you go. And if you put the microphone on.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. There are a few things that I'd like to replicate at least a little bit, and then there's something else to say about what's been said, with a little more accurate data, so that we can know what we're talking about. First of all, Mr Rajić said that it was not enough for the self-employed. I will answer that very much has been done for the self-employed and that during this time of the epidemic they have been insured, but of course it is placed in our country as if self-employed are the only problem. For two years, I have been listening here to a whole series of these cultural committees, which revolve around self-employed people, in particular by Levice, who collects cheap points by understanding cultural creation and cultural politics in some part of the labour struggle and some liberating struggle of the working class, and in this spirit challenges and potentises what is a small segment in Slovenian culture, about 3%, as we have already mentioned. So Mr Rajić also said that there was no dialogue. Of course, we are different here in different positions as to what dialogue is probably. Now, some people think that dialogue is that you talk to them and then they put in place what they think is right. In particular, this applies to Levi, which is impatient and impossible for any dialogue, but to dialogue in culture, which was large, very large in the ministry. As I have already mentioned, at various levels and levels of the Minister of Culture, there is an ongoing dialogue with the parties and all the problems are detected, they are carefully examined and tried to oppose. It is therefore the Ministry's responsibility to respond to the challenges and to go against those who need the country's concerns to say so. Self-employed funds have increased over the last two years. The Lord also said that the members of the Commission bear no responsibility. I'd like to hear if someone has been able to list someone who's been on a commission for the past 10 years and has taken some responsibility for something. I claim that the members of the committees of the Ministry of Culture are all competent people, highly qualified and responsible for their profession. But nowhere in the world does the Commissions publicly dispute with such affected parties and dispute about what is right and what is wrong. This is not done anywhere in the world, perhaps in a wall, where there were various manifestations. To break ZUJIF and ZUP – that is not true. The gentleman also said that the records were falsified, that all the possibilities and grounds for falsifying the minutes were at the level of understanding of the gentleman, how he understood the dialogue or the public word. These are, to put it calmly, mere teasings that can't withstand any real confrontation. With regard to self-employed people in culture, I would also like to say this, as my fellow Member, Mr Moškrič, has very nicely pointed out. We have about 3 thousand 500 self-employed in culture, 2 thousand 400 we pay to talk about, not exactly the exact number, but I can also serve them, but for about 2 thousand 400 we pay all contributions, of which, look at it for miracles, there are 860 architects. So let them ask themselves a little bit about their positions and ask themselves, in particular, those architects who, in fact, – interestingly, those who are insanely concerned with social rights never expose – many of these architects here, paid by the Ministry, pay in various offices for 5 euros an hour. I've never heard of any, so I'm going to say, guardians and psychiatrists for social justice and equality to stand up for anything like that. But it's strange and terrible that one third of the people, the architects, the ones we pay. It's incredibly strange. This with the art and the predominance and the culture that we're talking about and what is often said and when it comes to industry or event art, the architects don't have anything to do here. He just shuts up in here. They already know each other. It has also been said, I do not know that there is a great deal of neglect and misdirection, it has been said, so by the authorities, the government, of course, that there will be tax bases, that people will pay from those contributions paid by the State, the tax base, I think that is not the case. That, as far as I am aware, it has been adopted vice versa; that mandatory contributions are not counted in accordance with Article 56 of the DHO-2 Act, i.e. in tax-recognised revenue. So, about Mr. Rajic. For others, a whole series of things have come together. They say that we have not arranged anything for the self-employed, that they are left to grace and mercy, and that we are machete. I would like to hear from all of these, especially from the Left, who knows and knows everything in detail, I would like to hear how they will save. Publicly here, I hope they're recording to tell us once how they're going to solve the problem of self-employed. And why do they not find it surprising that it is only so-called or true artists who are obliged to receive these privileges, which the state pays more than in any other country? Earlier, Croatia was mentioned to have taken care of it. Croatia takes care of a thousand 428s, pays them self-contribution. Interestingly, though, it does not seem worth asking themselves whether there are anthropologists, ethnologists, historians, sociologists, or psychologists, such as if the unemployed were to be paid? How come only artists? For which Mr Moškrič has been very troublesome there, he has been very wisely troubled for how long. Is the man you pay him ten times the lowest base a top artist? Is that true? Ask yourself. I've got one message here before, I've been watching, from one man from a foreign country, an artist who actually lives alone. Slovenian. In addition, I would say that Mr SD spoke there, and it was also repeatedly mentioned that there were 15,000 employees in industry and, indirectly, another 20,000. All employees in the cultural sector were 29 thousand 825 in 2021. Under the event sector, what does not belong to the Ministry of Culture, and I would also like to hear clearly from the representatives of the opposition whether the event industry, i.e. the cultural industry, will be taken over within the Ministry of Culture. Let them say in public that after the elections we will know exactly – if they do not, but win, that they will arrange it and in what time. Are they going to take the cultural industry within the Ministry of Culture or are they going to do a little motivating and talking again? You don't hope that! Well, they say it was 15,000 and 20 grand. I wrote it. I'll tell you right here. All employees in the cultural sector 29 000 825. Under what you said, under the event sector, these are artistic performances, accompanying activities, artistic creation, the operation of objects, cinematographic activities belong here, listen, 6 000 586 people. And from that, these are employees and self-employed. So this problem you're talking about is very small and just propaganda weird, but at the same time you're not offering anything to really fix the problem that it is. Someone also talked about changing the law that I was talking about. Yeah. It is necessary to amend the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture – absolutely – and the problem of self-employed people should be properly addressed, not abandoned, certainly not, God forbid, many deserve this attention. And there are also different kinds of art that some cannot live, and they must be, and therefore they must be supported. But it is necessary to arrange in ways that are already very clear and quite well regulated in Croatia to a certain extent. And there are also some models in Europe that talk about how these things are arranged; in particular, to take responsibility for who comes among the self-employed and what privileges they will enjoy. But then maybe it will clear up and we will get that core, creative and creative that will be worth all the attention and that will ultimately earn enough for its worthy survival and which part will certainly also receive national attention, I will say; not support. Since these are not support, these are creative means for actually the excessive things that we refer to by the word art either at the amateur level or at the level of elite culture, if you want. I've already talked about the dialogue. That's not what we're talking about. I'd like to tell you a whole line here, and I'd like to talk to you about the guys on the street, and I want to talk about the guys on the street, and I want to talk about the guys on the street, and I want to talk about the guys on the street, and I want to talk about the guys on the You need to know that there are many directors, many professionals who serve and have espouses at the same time, and get money. After 10,000 euros a month, some also earn and do not give up on self-employed people, such as businesses. That's just the way it is. But it's okay, because [[…]] On the Austrian model if you want, I will tell you further how much the state finances. I have accurate data here, including on the German model, on the Croatian model as well. Let's say half less Croatia, twice as many people as we do and about 4 million people give 900 thousand for self-employed people, while our country has 11 million. And there are a thousand 428 people in Croatia, say, which is the neighbouring country. So it is always necessary to take, look at neighbouring countries and then some smaller countries in Europe, which are roughly the same, and come from the same countries, to say, with the same historical burden, because they are also in many ways damaged by democracy, and of course also from some countries that are long-term, but that should always be taken as a reserve because you cannot just about take Denmark because only cookies are sold as much as we have budgets. To talk about the impact of self-employed people in culture is therefore quite dull. Painters and sculptors, artists in the field of visual arts do their work individually, so they could work perfectly normally during the epidemic. Most self-employed are in the field of architecture. The gentleman said between 800 and 960, I have 944. In view of the exceptions to the investment momentum that we started with this government, from Murska Sobota to Nova Gorica, from Vrba to Žužemberk, if you like, culture has also entered here with one strong swing and also justified because infrastructure has been neglected for the last ten years. Here it comes from archives that no one wants, because they don't bring points, but it's a fundamental thing for identity and history. This is, say, Prešeren's house, which has been neglected for 50 years and embarrassed by the shame that no one has found as much attention in the last 20 years. And so on. That's what we said, maybe I'll count it. So the self-employed, the writers, the editors, the writers could do their work peacefully, the journalists — undisturbed, despite the covidus, the cultural creators in the field of cultural heritage were able to carry out this work smoothly. The question of the cultural industry remained open and Mr Restorationšek replied qualitatively in his written reply and so did I. Once again, say responsible, clear and precise whether you will be a cultural industry - which you think is responsible for culture, but the minister thinks you will not - whether you will accept them as the Ministry of Culture. How, when, by what means, and how will you replace these matters? Mr Restoršek has done his duty to them to a very qualitative extent with these PKPs, by means of these anti-korona measures, which included tourism, in which this cultural industry was also involved. On 31 January, he also called for all the affected to be able to enforce the possible fallout and so on. In this regard, it has been very large and responsible and extremely careful and completely comparable or even better than most or, at least to the best of my knowledge, better than in other countries. As far as nothing has been done, I would simply say that after five years with your extraordinary ability, the National Programme for Culture has been adopted. I hope that you have read it, not as you do not read your political programmes, but I hope that you have read it, i.e. the National Programme for Culture, where there is a financial definition at the end. I hope so! And that was accepted after five years. Then we also adopted a fundamental strategic act, which is extremely important, perhaps invisible to the eyes, but extremely important, also financially valued from the item to the item almost. This is the resolution on the national language policy programme for the next four years. We, therefore, and the people of my party, are not ashamed of the Slovenian language, and we think that it is the foundation of everything; the foundation without which it goes and therefore this resolution is adopted and quality, and it also has before it the entire Slovenian space; if you want both a place and a home. Then we adopted an operational and awarded with a financial large enough injection the so-called Cultural Euro Act or the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes for the years 2021-2027 with an additional 122 million. These are the things that are so important and of course stand. Then colleagues from the Republic of Slovenia Archives took the initiative and initiative of a man who cares about what happened after the end of Yugoslavia, who takes care of the heritage What is it called? [[…]] Mr Pogačnik is worried about this success, and with him we managed to win it, then others started bragging that they arranged it — of course nothing bad — that we got 13 films from Belgrade, important classic films that we didn't get before, and we paid certain funds for it. [[…]] We have established the Museum of Slovenian Independence, which I hope will be made, and the construction of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia has now begun. In Maribor, a large investment began, which was not previously made, the center of Rotovž with the library, in Murski Sobota, the Murskoboško Unit of the Regional Archives, the so-called Muralist, Auersperg ironworks at the Court of Žuzemberk, we made the foundations for the reconstruction of Dornave, Turjak, Viltus and so on. In Nova Gorica, it has already been said, we helped, but we helped, whether we favoured becoming Nova Gorica the European Capital of Culture. In this regard, we also went to the theatre to get a new amphitheatre, a new theatre building, and so on, not to mention because it is still a whole species. [[…]] Finally, we have begun to rescue the most deserving artists in exceptional pensions, which we will continue because there is still a long way to go, because these are some processes that need to be solved. We have saved six, seven of these requests, which has not continued since I finished my first term. There have also been considerable efforts in this regard regarding the EU Presidency. In view of the intervention relief given by covid, we went with exceptional assistance in the form of a monthly base income of EUR 1,000 100: €700 and €400 for contributions. An extension of the compensatory payment measure for waiting at home was the remuneration for waiting at home for applications from November 2020 onwards. Then we partially covered the fixed costs of the most affected natural persons, the measure of temporary compensation for the loss of work was applied, the religious staff were also granted the benefit of covering the contributions, the Single Price Act of the book was frozen and also provided for various other matters. After all, the cultural voucher was used for books, textbooks and tourist vouchers for cultural events. With regard to whether this matter will open up, we have discussed how the cultural space will now open up, and this has been addressed in particular by a responsible and clear and carefully prepared report on this by the National Council on Culture. I'd say so much and thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you, Minister, for this self-sing. That was really awesome to listen to, but we've been listening to this for basically two years. On all committees, at all meetings of all members of the coalition, only to celebrate the glory of the work of this government. And when you look at the ground, everyone says - what? And this is the question that I raised with the oral question in the previous meeting. And this is the question that remains - let me speak in peace. Thank you. - open today. Government, Ministry works well for employees, for self-employed, for workers and cultural workers. But when you ask them, they just grab their heads. But they're on the verge of survival. They don't know what they're going to do in this particular industry, the event that we've lit up today, they've been biting from post to post office for two years, and now they don't know what to do, but the minister says it's okay. So much for starting off in response to what the minister said. Data number of self-employed, employed 6 000 or 10 000. Look, you have registered employees and self-employed in this particular performance sector, which is probably the number that is valid. But are the lanterns, the caterers that depend on events, or are the technical staff registered as self-employed in culture? Who are self-employed in culture? Players, musicians, okay, also some technical staff, but it's much easier to get formal status if you're a simple espa or working through a contract. And we're talking about the plight of these people! Then, well, here we just laughed, on this side of the tribune, when you said - well, this one was really happy - that journalists could do their job smoothly. [[…]] Are you kidding? I mean, if there's anyone, the press has been unable to do their job smoothly over the last two years. Ask anyone on STA, ask anyone on national television. During this week, a group of news shows fell off the government's desk, of course, under the pretext of not knowing what, what, what, what, what, or whatever. Well, it's just some new practice. And I mean, who do you think you're talking to, the coalition and Minister Simoniti? Who do you think believes you? Journalists did their work without distraction! And, well, this is where I get to the core of my criticism. The dialogue at the Ministry of Culture, such as the Minister, took place all the time. No, there was no dialogue! Maybe there were some meetings, and then I'll base that on the number that there weren't as many as you say there were. But if there had already been some approximate meetings, since there were no arrangements, it was unilateral. Has anyone at the Ministry of Culture ever taken any proposal into account? You mentioned the National Programme for Culture. This is where we combed it long and thin. The cultural factors came, gave their opinion – a negative opinion – and was taken into account by architects at the Ministry of Culture? You can wave with your hand as many times as you want, I can only be here and only a lawyer of cultural workers and speak for them and everything we've talked about today has already been spoken of from their address. Okay. Now a few responses from Members and Members of Parliament, which you discussed before the Minister, are OK. [[…]] One such common denominator of understanding culture in coalition MPs, you observe culture through the eyes of its entrepreneurial value, through the eyes of its value on the market. If a movie attracts a lot of people to a movie, if a lot of people value their enthusiasm with money, then this cultural product is okay. If a music performer attracts a large number of fans and listeners to his concert and so on, who evaluate their enthusiasm or approval with their positive rating with a paid ticket, such a project is okay. All those who fail to meet this condition are given market value, are without connection and deserve nothing. And we've seen, in this mandate of this government, it doesn't even deserve specific social support, pillows if you want. I repeat again what colleague Tomic said before me; 700 euros is not a support for culture for a high-level creator. And the question is, if the person you're paying for the lowest contributions is really a great artist, which is what the minister pointed out. I am addressing this question, aren't we: Why do we have top artists in Slovenia who are not paid by the country other than minimum contributions to which the state is giving them charity? The same paradigm of understanding was also opened by Mr Moškrič, i.e. culture and entrepreneurship. I'm not going to comment. Mrs Jeraj, you are not surprised either by your comments by protestor Jaša Jenul and, of course, by snorkeling with your finger that the country is paying for it. As far as I am concerned, one protestor of the Yase Jenull format has brought together 10,000 people, Slovenes and Slovenes, users and users of culture, which your government has never done; on the contrary, you are also paid by the state budget. You're paid by the state budget and you're tearing people apart. What else have you done in this term? What else have you been doing with your media since you've had them? This is how I see in this action the play of Slovenian culture from the title of the current ministry, especially the political statement. My apologies, Mrs. Shkrynjar, a statement is an English term. I see a political statement that marginalizes culture, one that is not “our” - in the notes - pushes it to the edge and looks for some substantive or ideological reasons why it is okay. Why it is wrong that some protestor who does something – and I think Jaša Jenul has never undressed on the Ljubljana market, as you said – why he is not entitled to the state help him or finance him or something. And critical behavior, finding constant excuses, why not, why not? Ask Zlatan Čordić, who was a little too loud a few times and lost his status as an independent or cultural person! And now this: the subtitle, colleagues and colleagues, all we've heard today and what we're listening to, the hand on the heart, the last two years of government, is ignorance and misunderstanding. Ignorance or ignorance of the cultural landscape at all, ignorance of the process of cultural creation, which is the lack of knowledge of dynamics and the consequence of the social situation among cultural creators. When we talk about self-employed people in culture, or when we talk about people who are employed, or who are on call, or who are self-employed in the field of performing art, of course we are talking about people, but we are also talking about businesses. That is why I have little agreement here with you, Minister, on this inadequacy, where something belongs, or in the economic or cultural sphere, is problematic. We agree here, and the creators of this landscape agree with that if you want. But it is also very convenient to observe this misunderstanding on the government side. Two, three years ago, I think that one of the major Tolmin festivals in Tolminov was prepared by our Slovenian organisational teams for excellent, internationally recognized music festivals. To one of them, the organizers invited your ministerial colleague Zdravek Pozdovalska, who came there quite surprised and said: “Do you have this here? Is this what's going on here?" We are talking about the events, the festivals that bring tourists from around the world to Slovenia, which provide not only a cultural venue for the entire Tolmin region, but also take the entire tourism and place the region on a global map. “Do you have this here?” Minister of Economy! There are thousands and tens of thousands of people: and entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, self-employed people from Tolmin, Kobarid and the surrounding areas, who live all year long from what they create, of those 10,000 people, visitors who come from Australia to watch and listen to their musical choice on the Tolmin stage. This is such a beautiful, plastic example of how much government even knows Slovenian landscape culture. And on the other hand, there is a misunderstanding when it comes, especially in the epidemic, when there are crazy measures that the whole of Europe has laughed at. You mentioned, you need to see how the neighbouring comparable countries were facing the epidemic. Yes, we need to see how neighbouring countries have faced the epidemic in organizing events of key importance in this sector. How did they do that in Austria, in Croatia, how did they introduce PCT, how did they operate with masks? And why this is the same sector that has roughly, we will say, proportionally equal numbers of employees, including the same number of workers, proportionally more than in Austria, in Croatia, but okay. How did the events take place during the epidemic there? It's a lot more common. The sector has survived – yes, Minister, I am glad that the pressure of the employees in the cultural sector excites you to the point of laughing. And when these people come in here, they come in, minister. I have before me all their calls and letters sent to you: 27 times from May 2020 to December 2021. 27 times is – and this is just one initiative We are doing events – 27 times have volunteered for a meeting at the Ministry of Culture, and they were sent back to the Ministry of Economy, and then again, in the meantime a little bit to the NIJZ, then go to one ministry. No, go to another ministry, and that's how they spent two years. 27 times, Minister, you told them no, and they came with what? They came with their distress, and, look out, they came with solutions. They came with their PKP. And what did you do? You showed them the middle and sent them out. 27 times! They have arranged for one meeting with the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy, and this one without results. That's the ignorance. Not to mention the letter, which was already mentioned today, under which Romana Kranjčan was first signed, and there was also a number of tabulated names of Slovenian cultural creation. They sent you a letter and they said, please, please, come on, look at the young cultural creators and the hardship they live in. They can't pay bills, they can't survive their families; they're not statistics, they're people. And the same, they say, followed a cold shower in the form of an answer that, I quote, "they will forward our initiative to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology because they assess that the difficult conditions for young artists are the result of the loss of market activities in the field of culture". And then they were sent to the Ministry of Economics. What did the economic ministry of Romani Kranjčan, Government of Kreslin, Boris Cavazzi, Bosniak Gombač, Boris A. Novak and so on do? They were sent back to the Ministry of Culture! This is the reality that cultural creators at the time of the Ministry of Culture, led by Vasko Simoniti, dealt with. With the pingpong between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture, then these same creators, the eminent creators, said that okay, we have enough of this, we will write to the Prime Minister, but maybe he will have a hearing for us. And they also received an answer from his cabinet, which says, “Although there are difficult times behind you, we believe that culture and economy will soon be on their feet and that cultural life will be brought back to life just as before the covida-19 epidemic.” They understand their concern. This is what the government has offered cultural creators, Minister! He understands their concern. Businesses and individuals, cultural creators in the performance sector have drawn here, respected colleagues and colleagues, the shortest. The events were shut down at the beginning of the March 2020 epidemic and are not yet living to their fullest extent. For culture, the crisis continues. The 700 euro charity did not save anything, including the obvious that the self-employed in culture in Slovenia are in a privileged position I cannot accept. How can a man with 700 euros be in a privileged position, Minister? Let's survive with 700 Euros! Anyone. With 700 euros you don't pay Ljubljana rent. Not to mention that — and I am glad that you mentioned them yourself — church dignitaries or religious servants did not have this problem. But religious employees without proving their status, without proving their performance in the work, so the conditions for which employees in the culture must be notified – no problem! Contributions and basic income, which is not a problem, but he can look up at the air all day with his feet on the table, but look, it's lucky that it's true religion. As we would say on that side of the meadow – I apologize, Mrs Škrnjar – “I've rest my case”, I am super glad that this mandate is over, delighted with the idea that this era of Vaska Simoniti at the Ministry of Culture is nearing its end and that the final culture is placed where it belongs: at the centre of the community. Culture is something that the community creates, culture is what shapes the development of the community. Unfortunately, the current government does not understand this; it sees it as an urgent evil, although formally within the framework of an enlarged budget and of all the other flattery with which the ministry gushes over its shoulders, things cannot be tolerated in the lives of cultural and cultural people who are the basis of everything. Minister, you failed!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary. In view of the desire expressed for further discussion in the context of time-sharing, in accordance with Article 71, I am opening the possibility of reporting to all those who wish to discuss. At the same time, the warning is that you must report to the debate by pressing the microphone key if you wish, including the Minister and the Applicant. In this case, the proposer gets the last word. I'm opening the application. Please sign in. We have 7 reported debaters, each has a five-minute stand-by, with only a correction given that the computer has recorded Mr Siter as the last one, but he is the proponent, he gets the last word, and he has a ministry representative in front of him, namely Minister Simoniti. The first now has the floor for the debate, Mr Joseph Horvat, followed by Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister Dr. Vasko Simoniti! My debate may be slightly different, I will not hurt anyone, I will try not to commit violence against the Slovenian language, which is my mother's anger, and I will also try to get your saliva down. In this context, I would like to thank the Minister and his team that, since yesterday, a unit has been entered into the register of intangible cultural heritage called the preparation of premurk movements. Prekmurska movenica is the most famous holiday sweet cake in Prekmurje, prepared from a fragile and towed test, four of which I highlight four different fillings: savory, poppy, nut and apple.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Comrade Horvath, just a moment. I would like to remind you that we have a point on which we are discussing Mr Siter's issue of ensuring the social security of workers in events during the epidemic. I don't know where the suburban movement belongs, but please choose to discuss the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the lost 15 seconds back. This is the introduction from which I want to draw the next thought. What we are talking about today and what has been a criticism of this government, to the minister, to the coalition and so on, my precious compatriots are not saying anything about this criticism. I have in mind Prešeren's prizes, my cousins, Fari Lainšček, Sandi Červek, Evgen Tsar and so on. When we talk about culture, I am extremely pleased to continue with the budget, because it is actually a talk about money, I am extremely grateful, and I remain in Prekmurje, that finally after many years, money has been found in the state budget to make an object that will preserve the prekmurski or pomurski memory. I am talking about the adaptation of the facility, the former Muralist, for the purposes of the archive - I hope, Mr Minister, that it will one day also be the independent office of the archive for Pomurje - today this is the unit of the Maribor Regional Archives. We talked a lot when we were drawing up the budget coalition or, more precisely, the 2022 budget rebalancing and the 2023 budget, and we set ourselves the goal of making more money for culture than the European average. And that's what we've achieved. Yes, thanks to the minister, yes, also the finance minister, normally, and the entire government. We have a budget of approximately 0.6% of gross domestic product, which places us in a high place where the average of Europe is only 0.4% of gross domestic product, or, on the other hand, 2% of the national budget is cultural. Let it stay that way, no matter what kind of authority the next holds. Although the predictions are that if the next one is more on the left, everything will be different. Well, of course it will be different, because they on the left didn't support this budget because they oppose more money to culture. And regardless of what I'm investing in Murski Sobota, the Archive, what's happening to us right now, that construction prices are going to go to heaven, I'm sure we'll be able to do that and similar investments. Right at the beginning of the epidemic, immediately after the outbreak of the pandemic, we were aware in the coalition of all the problems facing the cultural sector as a result of the closure. We have acted accordingly with many so-called CAPs. Of course, we could be better, there could be more money, but if we compare ourselves with comparable countries again, we have acted on average in relation to the other Member States of the European Union and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mrs Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Yes, the President-in-Office, I would like to make a procedural suggestion to my colleague Horvath, who is knitting about everything, but not what he is talking about here, you may say that he is putting his mind into one notable sentence, which should be a message to the hungry and impoverished self-employed in culture - if you do not have bread, eat the Premurje movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much for this contribution, which was not a procedural proposal. I will not interfere substantively with the debate, but I have warned my colleague Horvath that he has gone over the subject in his debate and it is certainly not appropriate to use the agenda item far from the content of the debate for the EPP, the pre-election EPP. But that says more about my colleague Horvath than about us who are leading or participating in this session. The next one has the floor to discuss the agenda item, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I don't know who said he was knitting a fellow Horvat. I think my colleague Siter was also knitting and only talking because he said less. It only feels like talking. Some of your colleagues have pointed out that there is a need to make a strategy for the development of culture, what we will finance, how we will finance. He's already told the minister, and so am I in the opening act. We adopted a resolution on the national programme for culture for an eight-year period from 2022 to 2029 a month ago. We know that we have been waiting for this plan, and at the time of the Sharcha government, it should have been ready when Lefta was a subsidiary member of the coalition, and it was none of that. Minister Pershak, and I don't know who else did it then, Late, he was dealing with it, and there was nothing. Then, with the new government and with Minister Simoniti, we received this important document for the future development of culture. Indeed, it must now, so it will be prepared on the basis of an adopted resolution or plan, also an action plan that will specify some things in more detail, but it is already said that the resolution itself on the national programme will tell what will be financed, how it will be financed, what investments are, I will say, in priority and will begin or continue if they have already been launched. Thus, this is one very important basis for continuing in the future, as well, what we will do in the area of culture. I think that this resolution has been supported with quite a few votes, and I am sure that the action plan will follow this and that the millions we have discussed before will be 238 million for culture, the record budget for culture will be wisely spent in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Mojca Škrynjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I don't know why, if there is such a strong thought that only a state can best finance or overestimate what is the best culture, what is not, who in its name is empowered to do so. I don't understand that. But I understand that people can understand culture very well and also buy it. This is not just a market, it is an assessment of what is also worth buying in the field of culture. If it wasn't, today, I don't know, Van Gogh's paintings or Gaspari's, if you wanted to, but Grohar's wouldn't be an investment, not just a culture. And the Lapain paintings are worth so much today, and in a few years, they'll be even more. In short, the market also determines the value of culture or cultural products, you cannot deny it, but it is. If someone doesn't like the performance when Mr. Jenul dances in diapers on Ljubljana streets, it's his problem and he won't buy it, and someone else will. But as soon as things clear up, it turns out those geniuses, really those whose legacy remains, and some things go to waste. And I think that, contrary to the fact that only a country can think what is good and what is not good for people and what is not good for people, people cannot think about it or not want it, they must not imagine what is good and what is good and what is good, and I am opposed to it. And I think if we can do anything, we can raise people in a cultural spirit. That means we're bringing the young people closer to art. And here, of course, that change of our ZOVFI was extremely smart and far-reaching. Of course, I tend to give incentives especially to young exhilarating artists so that they can present their work. If you go to a small coastal town in Belgium called Knokke, you can walk a mile from the gallery to the gallery. So much was devoted to their artists, as well as to foreign artists, Belgians. We are so small and so smaller a nation, and we should devote even more to it. I don't know how many times I've proposed to the Ljubljana Mayor to make an art fair there from China Shiska to the International Center of Graphic Center in Tivoli. Some degraded areas are able to change in such a way and encourage young people to demonstrate that they have the opportunity to expose themselves and to encourage other young people to appreciate it. But not simply to say, to set up a commission where it will also treat people with incomprehensible projects as excellent and others as bad. I think there has to be some smart division between what people want and think and how you actually have to put quality first and who can do it. You simply cannot say that the market cannot tell a certain proportion of what people really want. Unfortunately, unfortunately for you, it is my pleasure that we have different tastes. This must also be served, and it is necessary to ensure that people work and express their wishes and opinions, not only that some bureaucrats decide what is good for them but what is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Shisko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u130	Look, there's nothing against culture, against free artists, and anyone who does. However, dear colleagues, when you see well through masks, who speaks, you are the one who has invested and raised the social amount. I'm not gonna tell you this, but when we talked about it, I told you that we already have a pretty big social amount, but let's just leave it alone. But that culturers have 700 euros and that they can't pay their rents and bills, I believe that. And at the time of the co-vide, these culturers still acquired funds, 700 euros if memory doesn't deceive me, and also contributions paid. But I'm going to ask you, because I'm lucky that you're going to be behind me, and yet you won't have to answer procedurally, and I'm going to ask you what you think about those workers, say, in Krska, who are working three shifts for 800 euros and don't let God happen to work and father and mother in this company, but get a thousand 600 euros, and I think you have a lot of these cases in the Obvijeks, in Zasavje, because it's close to me, near my Posavij. And this is one problem when we have to or will have to start talking about these amounts. Not that we're going to raise it socially, but that people are going to work. Because if we do a little math, we're so smart, if you get 400 or 500 euros in social security and then you have three, four weekends a month. Of course, everyone prefers to work there and over the weekend gets between 200 and 300 euros, and we soon see how much someone earns. But it still saddens me today, I have to tell you, and I will not talk about my last names, but I will not do advertising for them, as you mentioned certain people, it grieves me and my colleagues ask me from elsewhere what is going on with our Slovenian culture. When they saw those pictures of the Ministry being described, and it wasn't done by others, you said yourself, they weren't undressed by others -- you said so yourself. And look, here we can stop and wonder if there is even a culture in Slovenia. This is how to show something, my friend, that they have 700 euros so they can't survive. I'll ask myself how others who work three shifts after eight hours behind the tape stand to see how they can survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u132	What we have just heard, however, is the ultimate manipulation and conversion of employees on the minimum wage against culturers. Why don't you turn them against religious officials who also get 700 euros for nothing? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, wait! In short, why are you comparing the unmatched? Why in a corporation such as La Sintal, 2 000 employees receive a minimum and the country, although the employer is strong, is paying EUR 400 and 300 that the employer, who is rich, is buying other companies. I mean, why are you comparing? We are talking about self-employed people in culture who are engaged in concert and performance activities. That's all. And we're not talking about observant UTD here, but we're talking about measures that Minister Vasko Simoniti has not taken so that the sector can fail as soon as possible. So what do you think now if we all get the same, 700 euros, just that we're quiet, but that's a solution for the country or what? How much money without connection does the state give instead of investing, because investment in culture has a multiplier effect. Instead of investing in people! And here we are listening to this kind of nebulosis, and I'm sorry, but I've got to say, the motions and the archives and the museums of self-reliance and so on. I mean, these people are using culture as an ideological tool and building their ideology through the cultural sphere. What's important about the whole thing is that this debate on the question of the Member of the Siter's delegation was about people, not about the downs and downs, because obviously Mr Horvat wasn't sitting here, he wasn't listening, he wasn't interested, he came, and he sang five minutes of praise to this government and went. And he doesn't care about anything else. We were also talking about the Jenul protestor. He's just self-employed in culture. Now, if you do not like his involvement: for the first time, every citizen has the right to protest. I hope for now. Mr Jaša Jenul has received a circus of 50,000 euros in fines to protect peaceful protests - please do not speak while I speak and answer. If you don't like Mr. Jaša Jenull, and I don't like any famostro, I'm not going to stop his basic survival. Don't you get it? We live in de-mo-kra-ci-ji. People have read the Constitution here on the market before parliament and have therefore received high penalties. Robocops took them away - what does this have to do with anything? In what way can you justify beating citizens in peaceful protests? I mean, where did we come from, actually? Of course, where neo-Nazis receive special social status. We talked exclusively about performances, concerts, all the lanterns, all the people doing catering, and a period where they can't go back so quickly to their runaway work rhythm. I mean, this is where we go to the prescriptions on how to prepare the premier movement. I mean, really, really level's down! Once again, the self-employed in culture are essentially a lesson lesson for all other professions. Of course, it is not right for people who work full - time to receive such low wages. Of course, this anomaly is complete and exploitation. But we can't turn one against the other. Every self-employed person wants to work, wants to pay taxes, wants to have a job opportunity, but in this case, the state has forbidden him to work and has been stigmatizing him all the time. I mean, it's illegal! They are simply workers, representing a sector and must be respected. But what you are doing, Members of the right hand, is a total denial of the artistic sector and of the artists who are doing it. You know, the world without art will be very sad. Even if they go into space, space ships will have to have artists if we want to stay human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Shisko, do you have a procedural proposal regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure or my conduct? [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u134	Your Honor, we may not have represented ourselves well. I wouldn't answer either, I checked out of the debate, and then I applied for time-sharing. Dear Mrs. Violet, I respect you and I think it would be right. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u135	Mr. Shisko, this is not a procedural proposal. I've got you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u136	that you have prepared a colleague. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u137	Mr. Shisko, Mr. Shisko! I have warned you that you can have a procedural proposal which is intended for me, not a replication of colleague Tomić. This was completely unnecessary and inappropriate, so that we can abstain from such things for the second time, we have only a good five minutes of this debate. The word is now given to Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. So, I wanted to say something to Mr. Sutter. See, when we are also talking about this issue, which is supposed to be a central topic today, but it is here and there, but the Member of Parliament has somehow adopted that it is the criterion of everything, that he knows what culture is, that he knows what cultural landscape is, that he knows also art, and that others are ignorant, that they do not understand anything. Okay, he can say that, but don't let him think he's right. Here half of Parliament voted in favour of the National Programme for Culture, now they do not know that only he knows, these are a bit of resourcefulness, but they are really a little inappropriate, because, excuse me, Mr Siter, I have never heard of you before in my life, but I have walked a little around our country. So, are you some kind of artist? Are you some kind of culturer or something? Are you selling tickets maybe in the theater or something? So it's probably something like that, probably something like that. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, look, that really bothers me. Members don't need to know and know everything about culture, but they get some stuff, they have jobs, they have ministries, they consult and they make competent decisions about it. Neither does Minister Počvalšk need to know about one festival. I'm not saying anything, whether it's important or not, but I'm telling you, you don't know about a lot of festivals either, not in Europe. I'm telling you, you don't know, I'm sure. And you've never been there. I would say that we somehow know, not now knowing, but about as a minister in relation to the job behind the minister, who supports him, because the ministry needs to know the cultural landscape, knows about matters in the countryside. And also the ministry, that is, the state that the government is walking around the provinces, in the regions and getting to know these things. I must say that such dissatisfaction that you are talking about now, about some small group that, as you would say, you've been perpetuating over two years, as if it were the most important segment of culture, is also small. [[…]] In fact, there is something that shows that you may not know much about culture. You said there was a whole Europe laughing. I want to know what Europe is all about for you. So I have to say that this performance of yours shows that you're the measure of everything, but that's too much, and I think it's wrong. With regard to journalists, you said that what was going on See, we had one experience with a European MEP, who was mainly very careless in her work, and also a state secretary, who we also clearly, very directly told in the talks exactly what and how. [[…]] I haven't heard from her since. That's interesting. Maybe she'll come forward this month. So about the press, I don't know, I think they're writing what they want. So very often, very often, no one wants to hurt them, no one has lost their job, no one has done anything to anyone; so, I don't know these things, so we can have a different opinion on this. What is journalism, say, what are the codes of journalism, what is the criteria, but let's just leave it. So, about the self-employed, their involvement. Of course there is, of course there is no doubt about it, but I must say that I am extremely disappointed that we have applied for self-employed 53 scholarships — 53, never before the Ministry! Only 17 of them came forward. Interesting. In addition, if they are so superior and famous, I forgive myself, I do not know the situation in Europe, but I know some people in Europe. I have to say that there are huge scholarships available in Europe, a lot of projects to apply for, there is a lot to fight for, and I must say that there is an enormous potential for participation and action in the cultural field, both at home and in Europe. About archives; archives have nothing to do with ideology, but they have nothing to do with national memory. All over the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. She wants Mrs. Sukich on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u140	Look, Madam President, I suggest you remind the Minister of these insults to the motioner who, I don't know, humiliated him in the sense of who you are, whether you have any idea at all, or what you know. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I mean, Primož Siter released seven albums, 20 years of music, a thousand 200 shows, often collaborated with Svetlana Makarovič. Is that enough for the minister? [[advertising from the hall]] Me? [[advertising from the hall]] Well, he probably comes from these circles and knows what he's talking about. That's what I wanted to tell you. [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't say that. [[…]] I wasn't commenting on you, Minister. You were commenting on your colleague as if he was an alphabet, weren't you? [[advertising from the hall]] and I'm just telling you that this is not a decent answer in such a debate, and I'm asking you to remind him. Despite the fact that the Minister is each of us, each of us must have one of those basic ways, a bonton, a minimum, in communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u141	Yes, thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] No, Mr Minister, you can't have a procedural one, but you could really get a reminder as part of the debate, even though you are a representative of the government and not a Member. But given that even a possible warning statement would not have contributed to anything, because we really only have five minutes of the proposalr's closing statement, it makes no sense. In some ways, however, I agree with the procedural proposal submitted by my colleague Sukič. [[advertising from the hall]] Final No, it was not an abuse because my colleague Sukič suggested that I give a procedural warning to the Minister, and that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this was a procedural proposal intended for me as chairman. [[…]] So it wasn't an abuse in this case. Now the final word is given to the proposaler Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Mr President, for the debate, colleagues and colleagues, all those who have joined the debate. Let me remind you, the seed of the debate was mainly about how the ministry works with self-employed and other socially disadvantaged workers in the performance sector, particularly in addressing their social pressures. I am pleased that the debate was broader. Of course, we did not get an answer after an extensive discussion, after 27 requests from at least one initiative, which we know of, which was addressed to the Ministry of Culture, including the Ministry of Economy, from this flour, unfortunately, there was no bread. Above all, the problem remains at two levels. One problem is that now for two years as a society we have allowed ourselves to tolerate the social distress of one round if you want, productive and hardworking citizens, residents of Slovenia, taxpayers. This is one problem that the government has not addressed sufficiently, and that is why we are opening the matter up and that is why so many calls have been made. On the other hand, we are looking at the longer term here, but of course the problem remains that the exit strategies, what now, after the epidemic is over, when this event map is shattered and decimated, how to proceed. People have escaped, infrastructure has been sold, this important cultural and economic area, which is closely intertwined with hospitality, with tourism, with many more, so it remains bare and bare, decimated and without perspective from here on out. These are questions that remain open, questions that we know will fall on the shoulders of the next government, and I am pleased that the next government will particularly be in open dialogue with stakeholders who create and live culture. Or maybe just as a conclusion, maybe with the minister, I'm squirming. I'm not an expert, I don't see myself as an expert in the cultural field, I'm just someone who, with admiration for the eyesight of culturers and cultural artists and creators, I don't want to be one of them in this crisis, although perhaps the social crisis is always an inspiration for creation, especially if you're an author, as a creator socially engaged. In the last two years, however, it has been damn hard for cultural and cultural people to pay the bill or to put a bread crucifix on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and also concludes this agenda item and ends the 30th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16:00 and 35 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.03 and resumed at 16.35.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u144	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in the following order: paragraphs 2, 25, 32, 34, 14, 36, 33, 35, 37, 38 and 39. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism in the context of the urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the draft law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the delegation of Mr Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u145	Yes, thank you very much, Chairman. We will certainly vote against it in Levica. Well, not just that! If this law is passed by chance, we will do everything we can to prevent its implementation. In fact, why? This is now the second attempt, their first failed, now you push on and of course why? There is no secret that it was one of the first SDS targets when Janez Janša's administration took power, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. That's where you put your man, Zuglja, who, unfortunately, began to turn the office into a tool for political accounting with opponents of the ruling party. And just before the elections, of course, the coalition would like to strengthen the power of this office in any way, so this law, which would give this bug of yours the greatest possible database in the country, would of course greatly increase the authority of the office. You fixed practically nothing but some beautiful repairs and, of course, you removed the most controversial from the last time, the possibility of entering inspectors' homes without a court order, otherwise everything else is the same. The Legislative and Legal Service has written comments on 17 pages, has shown where all this law is constitutionally disputed, the same is true for an information officer who has not even been invited to the National Assembly to present her opinion. And all that you do, of course, clearly opens up a large room for abuse for political and other purposes. You would just like to get to the widest possible database of citizens and citizens; and what based on anonymity, according to the new, as it happens, without any clear criteria, is being employed in the office by people with a party card SDS, which has never been a practice before. Former Director Stroligo commented that what you're doing is a mini-state office. That never before, 20 years in the office, there were no people who had a party card. Well, now they're new, and that's SDS personnel. While we are not opposed to strict control over money laundering and terrorist financing, we understand each other, but it must be transparent, it must have clear legal boundaries and must not tolerate any abuses and arbitrary measures by the government. Well, this law that we now have on the table, of course, allows it all. The strengthening of control over money laundering and terrorist financing must not, however, be an excuse to tighten the control of people and to allow the handling of the ruling political caste with its political opponents. And that's outrageous. This law must be strongly opposed. As long as this happens by accident today, you know we'll do everything we can to keep this from happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 36. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Law banning the publication of public research on policy support and political parties. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law prohibiting the publication of public opinion research on policy support and political parties is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of Natasha Sukić's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House of Representatives. Look at another exotic marriage. One after the other, amazing! If we want to subscribe to the list as the world's largest possible exot, as a unique person in the world, we will, of course, adopt this bizarre law today. In fact, 38 countries around the world restrict the publication of surveys. But in what way? Maybe a day or two before the election or a week before the election. The only thing that prohibits the publication of polls in Honduras is 45 days before the elections. Well, we would have been six months; that's before regulars and extraordinarys. What does "emergency" mean? We don't know when they're extraordinary! That means that it's actually permanent all the time if you ask me, because we never know when extraordinary elections can be. And if we don't want it published six months earlier, it means you never publish the polls. Well, that's amazing. You're clearly denying people the possibility of being informed of the dynamics, the mood in the electoral body. But let me remind you, the Constitutional Court is that polls should not be published a week before the elections – watch out, week of days, not six months before the elections – has already decided that in 2011. I quote: “Free and democratic elections assume that the electorate is allowed to be informed of all important issues with real, comprehensive and also plural information, since only a universally informed voter can express his true political will on the day of the vote. [[…]] For the electorate, information on the state or dynamics of public opinion may be important, so it is important that this issue, which may have a decisive impact on the final formation of the voter’s will, ceases the flow of information as soon as possible. ” [[…]] In short, it's amazing! The SDS will of course support this, of course. But interestingly enough, then you won't be reading your Parsifala again, where you have such well-ordered polls that your head burns? In fact, in Levica, of course, we will not support this in our dreams. And here too, we will ensure that this law will not enter into force if it accidentally gets stuck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Dusan Šisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you. Dear fellows! We are really proposing this law. And look, this is the first reading. For second reading and committee, as the colleague spoke, there will be amendments. We are also prepared to adopt such a system that one month before the elections no surveys are conducted. That's not a problem. But since this is just the first consideration, it makes sense that this goes on, because if we look at a little bit of this survey, look at all three, four of the people they publish, in one week, no customer has the same result. We will therefore support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I guess not. In your own name? Me? Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u151	Look, it doesn't matter which way this is handled. This is something so bizarre, it is so absurd that it absolutely cannot go into further consideration. That's all I can explain. And, of course, we will vote against this decision for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much. And the victory of the Jelinčič in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Sometimes, in the former country, they initially voted in such a way that they had pellets, a wooden bottom in one box, and a bottom box. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u154	Comrade Jelinčič, put your mask over your nostrils, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u155	That's how it's done. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u156	Put the mask on like it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u157	Can I tell you?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u158	No, put the mask on, come on. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u159	It doesn't sound good, yeah. At that time, they voted with the balls, and when someone had voted wrong, they came looking for him and convinced him that he had done the wrong thing. Today the Slovenian media has this position. The media has adopted repressive methods and they are used in the way they are provided and requested by their masters. It is therefore necessary to prevent this; to prevent an amendment from being tabled for at least one month, since an amendment may be tabled and this period reduced, but for a certain period of time it should not be published. [[…]] After all, if we go the other way, why is one day before the elections forbidden? Then it is also unconstitutional. In short, then everything can be unconstitutional if you have the Constitutional Court on your side. We have made the law with this premise. You can make an amendment, and maybe we can even confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the scientific research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2030. We shall proceed with the decision on the amendment tabled, which shall be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2022. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB's parliamentary groups to Sub-Chapter 3 career development of researchers and researchers and excellent science. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 60 votes against one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda 34, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the 2030 National Higher Education Programme. We will continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2022. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-chapter of the Action to achieve the strategic objectives of social development and the higher education system under number 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to the sub-chapter of the measures to achieve the strategic objectives of social development and the higher education system under number 2. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-chapter Strategic objectives in the field of legislation and funding under number 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-chapter Strategic objectives in the field of legislation and financing under number 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to the sub-chapter Strategic objectives in the field of legislation and financing under number 3. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-chapter Strategic objectives in the field of legislation and funding under number 4. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups to the sub-chapter Strategic objectives in the field of legislation and financing under number 5. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to the sub-chapter of measures to achieve strategic objectives in the field of legislation and financing. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We move to a vote on the motion for a resolution. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised at the meeting of the home working body. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling in the framework of the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. 3. 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and specifically Article 12. Procedural proposal, Comrade Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam President. One question: we have all received an e-mail initiative for the referendum and I would like to ask whether it is even possible to vote at today's meeting. Otherwise, I propose that the vote on this item be held at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u162	So we will vote on the amendment of the SDS's parliamentary groups, NSIs, in particular, but we will not vote in full on the bill. That is how we now vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 32. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. I inform you that the assembly on the proposed law at this meeting will not decide, as a proposal for an advisory referendum has been tabled with regard to the content of the bill. In view of the substantive link between the two proposals and taking into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum should decide before finally deciding on a proposal for a law. On the basis of the above, the assembly on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling will decide upon the adoption of the decision of the National Assembly on the proposal for an advisory referendum. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 36th item of the agenda, this is by considering the Report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of the intelligence and security services for 2021. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2022-2030. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 35th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Social Protection Programme for the period 2022-2030. No amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a resolution. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Progress Report on Parliamentary Inquiry to establish the actual situation and possible political responsibilities of the holders of public functions in the implementation of the measures related to the COVID-19 epidemic and the mitigation of its consequences due to the suspicion of inadequate use of public funds and the unjustified restriction of rights and freedoms, for the period from 13 March 2020 to the date of the decision of the parliamentary investigation in question and for any modification of the applicable legislation governing the State's action in the face of the epidemic of infectious disease or its consequences. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Parliamentary Group Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you, Chairman. In the documents you were convinced they would never make it to the public, you acknowledged your disastrous management of the epidemic. Of course, in recent days you have been categorically denying this fact. Who do you think is responsible for Slovenia? One of the worst epidemiological images in the world. This was raised in December 2020 on a survey requested and commissioned by the Minister of Health or the Ministry of Health. The Minister of Health himself, a member of the Government, in December, we know who was the Minister of Health, your President and the President of the Government, admitted on the question that Slovenia had one of the worst epidemiological images in the world, and thus considered 47% of respondents. And as a result, it's a constant, constant deceiving, seduction, finger-pointing to all those you thought were responsible for, except for looking in the mirror. We're not going to discuss the consequences because they're too tragic. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Today, the pressure on the counter button will not relieve you of responsibility, not you who supported it, not those who carried it out. We'll definitely get into LMSH.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 40. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry are not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 40. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I find that the conclusions are not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 38th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigation by the Investigation Commission on the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by institutions of public functions to combat the spread of the disease of COVID-19 out of 1. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 33. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled for the new Chapter 8 or on a proposal for a decision to be taken on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 3. 2022. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ Group for a new Chapter 8 or a proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Parliamentary Group Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you, Chairman. Well, all I expected was a round of applause, and I'd really be the point of it. And if you, as a coalition, have brutally abused your political position to actually conceal crime, let the public judge on its own. This decision, which is proposed in the LMŠ, requires that all the documentation collected within the Commission of Inquiry be made available to the public. I doubt you have that courage, I doubt it. This country needs one strong reset, one strong catharsis for a new, unladen start. We will certainly vote in favour of this proposal in the LMŠ, because we have nothing to hide. And you're obviously a lot. And by hiding it, you support crime at the expense of human health.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-23-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 39th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Progress Report and the findings of the responsibilities of the public procurement and management function holders in the field of medical equipment and medical material and the reasons for the incomplete parliamentary investigation. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 56 votes against one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 30th meeting of the National Assembly.
