ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 96th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Nick Prebil, Mag. Dejan Židan, Željko Cigler, Samo Bevk, Franc Jurša, Gregor Židan from 16:00 on, Igor Zorčič, Aljaž Kovacič and Monika Gregorčič. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 96th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 21 February 2022 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that, pursuant to Article 118(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the applicant withdrew the proposal for a recommendation concerning the increase in the ownership of the State in Sava d.d. (EPA 2510-VIII) and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation is terminated on the basis of Article 118(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first item on the agenda of the 96th extraordinary meeting became irrelevant. We have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda of the meeting, which leaves only 2nd item on the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 59 votes against one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 96th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the promotion of digital inclusion, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mark Boris Andrijani, Minister for Digital Transformation. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u2	Dear Members, distinguished Members! The proposal for a law on the promotion of digital inclusion is the first system law that comprehensively regulates the area of digital skills in our country. If it is adopted today in this esteemed National Assembly, we will be able to launch the largest e-explaination programme in our history this year. At the time of taking over the ministerial function, I said that digital inequality and exclusion must finally become a thing of the past. I am confident that the adoption of this law will take an important step towards this goal, which is being pursued by all Europe today. However, I can say that Slovenia is unfortunately lagging behind the European average in this area. Almost half of adults have no basic digital skills. That is why we have drawn up a proposal for a law that will help us to lead us among the digitally most inclusive European societies. It introduces both systemic solutions and intervention measures to help those most suffering from digital exclusion during these crises. For the first time, the proposal defines the different levels of digital competence and sets out concrete measures to raise digital inclusion for all key social groups, including people with disabilities. First of all, it allows digital skills to be acquired by means of courses to be conducted and subsidised through public tendering. However, since knowledge is not sufficient without adequate computer equipment, it also introduces the possibility of financial incentives for the purchase of such equipment. With the measures provided for by the law, we also want to impress young people, among other things, on the technical knowledge and professions that are so lacking today. The law will also contribute to the digitisation of the school process, in particular to the responsible and safe use of the latest technologies. If this proposal is adopted today, we will be able to make public calls this year to subsidise digital skills courses aimed at young people and older than 55 years of age. We will also allow those over 55 to acquire basic digital skills through free courses, and we will provide young people with these free courses with access to advanced digital skills, whether it be robotics, programming, artificial intelligence or digital entrepreneurship. The proposal also allows the State to provide financial incentives for the purchase of computer equipment. We named these incentives, as you know, a digital voucher. As of this year, all high school students and high school students will be eligible for a EUR 150 digital voucher, and we have added primary school students in the last triad. The pandemic has shown that many Slovenian families do not have adequate computer equipment, and this problem is particularly acute in families with multiple children. Digital vouchers worth 150 euros will also be received over 55 years of age to attend subsidised courses. We have designed a digital voucher following the example of a tourist voucher and the beneficiaries will be able to cash it in for the purchase of new or used computer equipment. With the help of this law, we will also help with modern computer equipment for disabled and pension organisations, and we will also be able to subsidise the development and wide-ranging use of solutions for better digital inclusion of people with disabilities. We will also subsidise the purchase of digital learning materials in schools, additional training of teachers and call centres to provide technical support to citizens. We also want to promote the safe and responsible use of digital technologies through the implementation of educational campaigns, with our first campaign aimed at raising awareness of citizens [[sign for the end of the debate]] how best to protect yourself from online attacks and fraud. As of this year, we have a good €31 million available for this purpose, which is several times more than ever. I am pleased that this proposal supports more than 20 highly respected organisations, whether public universities, the Association of Retired Slovenians, the Union of Deaf and Deaf Associations, and key economic and crafts associations. [[sign for the end of the debate]] So much for now. Thank you very much. I am confident that by adopting this law, as we say, we will take a major step towards greater digital inclusion of the entire Slovenian population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u4	Your Honor, everyone has a very nice greeting. At its 65th emergency meeting on 25 February this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government considered the proposal of the Law on the Promotion of Digital Inclusion as a work force. In the introduction, the proposaler, Mark Boris Andrijanic, the current Minister for Digital Transformation, presented, on behalf of the government, the basic emphasis of the law and the incentives among them, including a digital voucher and, of course, everything that will be available to the education and other proposals covered by this law. Today, however, the Internet is a fact and digital inclusion is extremely important. If a few years ago there was a large part of the population that did not even deal with the computer, it is today that we follow the direction of the European Union as well as a purely practical life, as the pandemic has shown itself to be an Internet tool without which modern lifestyle is virtually no longer possible. Of course, such a system also hides traps. Also on these traps, it is said, on various forms of fraud, all the possible attachments and everything else that you can encounter on the Internet, as well as those purely basic psychological frauds, send the wrong mail, someone does not look, reacts and can cause much damage. Even in a few companies, this has already happened. In short, it is about taking on education for all that the Internet brings positive and, of course, also what can bring negative if we are careless or if we do not know the traps that modern means of communication through the Internet. Digital inclusion is therefore extremely important, so we welcome the fact that such a law is before us. In the debate there was a large majority, virtually unanimously members and members of the committee, in the view that such a law was not only necessary but necessary and individual comments were made on certain solutions, both in relation to the years when certain matters were obtained with regard to the groups covered by this law, but then the proposer also explained in his replies what basic guidelines these proposals follow. Finally, the vote followed the adoption of the 22 amendments tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups and the amendment, which was the same as one of the amendments adopted by content, was practically the same, the SAB Group of Members, became irrelevant due to the vote. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles together with 11 votes in favour and no votes against. The amended law, with all the amendments, is a complementary text of the law that is before you today and we propose that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. In today’s modern world, digitisation is a pervasive phenomenon. Because of new technologies, we communicate differently, we work differently, we live differently, and all these changes require updates to all the processes and systems that surround us. The development of an information society is based on capable electronic communications infrastructure, it is said, on the quality of broadband infrastructure on the one hand and on digital knowledge and skills of citizens and citizens on the other. Digital exclusion and inequality must become a thing of the past. The adoption of the bill will take an important step towards the goal pursued today by the European Union as a whole. In March 2021, the European Union presented a digital compass setting ambitious digital transformation targets on four pillars. One of them is also a pillar of digital skills. The European Commission’s objective is to have at least 80% of the adult population of the European Union have digital basic skills by 2030. According to the statistics available, Slovenia is far behind the best since we are below the European average. Thus, only 55 per cent of adults have at least basic digital skills, which is essential for equal integration in digital society. The largest backlog is recorded in over 55 years of age. Only 32 percent of the population has basic digital skills. The Covid-19 epidemic showed how important the digital competences of the entire population are to ensure normal and effective functioning [[?]] all social subsystems in crisis situations. Digital inclusion of the population is a prerequisite for social development, provided by digital transformation of the economy, public administration and the general public sector and society as a whole. The law is the basis for the promotion of digital inclusion to become an obligation of the executive authority on a case-by-case basis. The law refers to the social components of digital transformation and therefore the population of the Republic of Slovenia divides into 9 target groups whose promotion measures are aimed at children with disabilities and pensioners. The law defines three levels of digital competences as basic, more difficult and professional in relation to the classification of the European Digital Competence Framework. The law defines the following types of incentive measures. Incentives for enhancing digital competences, promoting digital competences, digital technologies and their use, and incentives for purchasing computer equipment. The purchase of computer equipment is encouraged by a digital voucher. In 2022, around €31 million is available to subsidise the training of digital competences and to purchase computer equipment. In view of the interest of the digital economy and society in 2021, Slovenia was 13th among the Member States of the European Union and, irrespective of the previous year, has advanced by three cities. In Nova Slovenija we believe that the situation can be further improved and with the relevant measures of Slovenia by 2030 we bring among the first 5 digital most advanced countries in Europe. The law will have indirect positive consequences for consumers and households and the economy in general. An increase in the level of digital inclusion across the population will allow for a greater share of digital businesses and consumers, thus reducing costs. The digital inclusion of the population is a major positive impact on employability and consequently removes one of the obstacles that prevents business entities from digitally transforming their business processes. With one digital population, there is a stronger pressure on the public administration to further adapt its business to the needs of the information society, which also has positive consequences for its business with the economy. In New Slovenia, we want to become designers of the digital future in Slovenia and not just users of technological solutions, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! The bill that we are considering is another kind of law that has a good purpose and will make life easier for people, but it is obvious that it is one of the tools with which the Government tries to buy as many votes as possible in the upcoming elections. This is also the only real reason to deal with the proposal under urgent procedure. It is difficult to agree with the hair attracted statements that the adoption of the law is necessary in order to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. In recent times, proposals for the treatment of the law have been rotated as a matter of urgency. If it is not possible for some to challenge the necessity, this does not apply to others, and we also include today's proposal for a law. As it is said, the government has apparently been in a hurry to also be a digital voucher for certain groups of residents, one of the badges that they will be able to pick up and take over in the upcoming elections, thus singing their own concern for the nation. Of course, there is no doubt about the importance of digitisation, and at the level of the European Commission, this area is included in the current mandate as six priorities. It is one of the driving forces of growth that marks our lives and it is in different areas. [[Incomprehensible]] Accordingly, both the working environment and the private environment require people to be able to use different digital skills and skills, and it is therefore welcome to promote the acquisition of one and the other. This is particularly true in view of the fact that demand for specialised labour has digital knowledge at the highest level to date. Contrary to the demand for such a workforce, digital skills have grown up in Slovenia according to OECD findings. Investments in adult education are equally low. We also place the promotion of digital literacy in front of key projects in our mandate. We advocate that knowledge has actually become a necessity and digitalisation is one of those areas that requires education in all life periods. An individual must be activated and aspired to his or her powers in this area, and the country is the one who, with appropriate tools and mechanisms, is obliged to offer him the opportunity to do so. If we move away from the pre-election agenda, which is the branch of the bill, it is difficult for the latter to oppose. Digital literacy needs to be strengthened constantly and all efforts in this direction are welcome. However, we do not agree with the Government on the identification of beneficiaries who will receive a digital voucher this year. We don't see the real reason why we should let one of the first generation of primary school kids go. In the SAB, we have been committed to providing students and students with appropriate distance education conditions throughout the epidemic. In the framework of the PKP laws, we have proposed a number of amendments with similar content, and in this light, the government proposal is pleased, but in our opinion the solution is too narrow. The dramatic increase in digital inclusion needs, which call for the acute situation of the covida-19 pandemic, relate to children involved in primary education. Since the outbreak or pandemic, a great deal of efforts have been made to ensure that all primary school students who did not have a computer or Internet access are also provided. Nevertheless, in the SAB, we estimate that certain needs remain unaddressed, so we have proposed an amendment to extend the beneficiaries to the voucher. At the committee meeting, we were able to hear that primary schoolchildren are particularly prone to digital dependence and that the Government has therefore released them, but the explanation does not seem convincing. In the SAB party, we stress that digital literacy is a necessity for primary schoolchildren, and they cannot do so without computer and computer equipment. Only then will they be able to develop sufficiently early interest in the professions and society of the future while developing competences that go beyond the use of social networks such as Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. The economy of the future will be based on digitisation and information and reasoning. We are therefore convinced that the responsible use of the Internet and computer equipment today is not a choice but a necessity. That is why we have tabled an amendment today, which, although not sufficiently supported by the committee, we have focused on a group of elementary school students where the need for computer equipment is particularly pronounced. Therefore, at the same time, we are pleased that the coalition has today tabled the same amendment that is identical to ours. We will therefore not oppose the law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Today we are deciding on a proposal for a law to promote digital inclusion. Digital inclusion of the population is a prerequisite for social development, provided by digital transformation of the economy, public administration and the general public sector and society as a whole. The priority objectives of the law are, inter alia, to strengthen awareness of the priority use of digital tools for life, to promote interest in natural and technical knowledge, particularly in the field of digital technologies, to enhance understanding in digital technologies and their responsible and safe use, to increase the number of employees with digital competences, to increase entrepreneurship in relation to digital competences and to develop entrepreneurship based on digital competences, to increase the capacity to use digital competences of higher levels of difficulty, and to increase interest in secondary, higher education and higher education programmes that include professional digital competences and to reduce gender differences in this area. Between the four pillars of digital inclusion, the law focuses mainly on acquiring and strengthening competences and knowledge of the benefits of digital technologies and services with a view to critical, responsible and safe use of digital services. The Digital Strategy of Slovenia 2020 notes that one of the biggest deficits in Slovenia is the real area of the capacity of the population to participate in the information society. Only by removing identified gaps in digital knowledge, skills, the number and skills of information communication technology experts and connectivity will it be possible to ensure that all citizens have full access to the services provided by digital technologies and become co-formers of the development of digital society. The bill includes measures for nine target groups: pre-school children, school-bound children, pupils, university and higher education students, teachers and lecturers, adults, pensioners and disabled persons, and covers several levels of digital competence, basic, professional and professional competences of entrepreneurship. The bill will thus, through subsidies to increase digital competences to promote digital competences and incentives to purchase computer equipment in the form of digital vouchers, ensure that digital exclusion and inequality become a thing of the past. According to the digital economy and company 2021 index, Slovenia ranked 13th among EU Member States and has advanced three cities over the past year. We believe that this situation can be further improved and, with appropriate measures, we will bring Slovenia to 2030 among the first five digitally most advanced countries in Europe. With a view to achieving the objectives of Slovenia's long-term climate strategy by 2050, the law will also help to achieve, among other things, the EU's efforts for green and digital transition. In particular, the proposal for a law promoting digital inclusion will be supported in the Group. We are particularly pleased that among today's amendments there is also an amendment to the coalition, which, according to our debate and appeal to the Home Committee among the beneficiaries of the digital voucher for the purchase of computer equipment in 2022, also includes the last triad of primary school children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Digital transformation is an important part of every developing society. Digitalisation is one of the priorities of Slovenian reality and perspective. How it will be used depends most on the legal framework in which we move power and citizens. Digitalisation is like any other technology, and we perceive it too technically. In doing so, we forget that digitisation is primarily a valuable phenomenon, as it degrades and to a certain extent breaks down the extent of uniformity and centralisation of the rule of law and stable social relations. Modern technology is not an indispensable and insufficient condition for an efficient and efficient economy and public administration. When it comes to digitalisation in the function of productivity, innovation or creativity, it can quickly become a contradiction in mixing technology and technology with responsibility and law. Respect for the rules as the basis of the system must, rather than later, remain. Digital certificate or signature, online application editing, online banking and many other services that we have previously had to go to administrative units or bank offices are available to us today via touch on the screen. It is understandable that there are always obstacles to this by excluding technical problems on the part of service providers, the biggest obstacles can be financial or the lack of skills in the use of modern technologies. The Digital Inclusion Promotion Act is the first major action of the Government's Digital Transformation Service to manage and regulate a large number of open cases in this area. With the considerable and important cooperation of the legislative authority in amending and optimizing the legal provisions, the stated ambition of the State to implement the digital transformation strategies recorded can be confirmed. The law is based on four types of measures to encourage, subsidies to raise digital competences, support projects to promote and use digital technologies, educational and promotional campaigns and incentives to purchase computer equipment. In the financial implications estimated at €31 million this year and €28 million next year, far the highest amount of expenditure is foreseen for the financing of the digital voucher for this year, the number of potential recipients cannot be confidently forecasted, and with a well-known number of students and students it is possible that there will be more than 100,000. They need to be included even more than 55 years old, which will be included in subsidised education programmes, and everyone will have to fulfil the condition, express their will to cash in a digital voucher. It is quite possible that today, after the vote, the round of potential digital voucher recipients will be extended. Digitalisation is one of the important potentials for increasing the productivity of modern economies. Productivity, in addition to investments in tangible capital, is increasingly affected by investments in intangible capital, as a rule we consider intangible capital, information and communication technologies by investing in computer software and databases and intellectual property by investing in research, development and innovation. Investments in intangible capital are positively linked to productivity. Higher investment in this type of capital increases the added value more quickly, and highly productive companies that have the ability, above all, of organisational capital to test new ways of doing business, work, consumption and communication are better able to cope with the new situation. Members of the Desus Group are aware of the importance of these facts and are therefore assessed as non-essential disputes and indemnifications around the type of procedure by which we adopt this law. The law on promoting digital inclusion will be unanimously supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dusan Šisko will present the views of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u14	Dear Vice President, Minister, everyone else is present! Digitalisation is a rather foreign term in Slovenian space. Maybe young people all the time watch those smart cell phones, the plates, and even the adults we're competing with each other who's gonna have more of these smart things. Despite the fact that I have access to the Internet by about 90% of people according to the SURS, our basic digital education is below the European average. While the proposal states that 45% of Slovenians do not have basic digital skills, to be honest, this figure is much larger. True, we are also very skilled in our ignorance, and we always find someone who knows and asks for his help. Basic digital skills shall be regarded as basic digital and information knowledge. Safe use of computer equipment, web browsers, use of e-mail, basic creation, management and distribution of electronic mail content. Basic knowledge of digital communication, use of digital signatures and electronic identity. Knowledge operates through online banking, e-services of public administration, the public sector, online commerce and a number of other things could be listed. Honestly, how many of these do you know? And if we go now to check your I.D., how many of you have an app connected to a digital certificate? How long did it take you to access the payroll through MFEC? The fact is, we have to take a big step forward in the field of digitisation. For the past two years, they have shown us how urgently we need a change in the digital field. Remember how much trouble there were at the beginning when children did not have equipment, internet connections and neither children nor teachers knew how to use online tools. The bill is far from perfect because it has a number of so - called legal voids and ambiguities. I'm a little distracted by the purpose of the law, which wants to raise the level of basic competence of the population between 16th and 74th. If I come only from the river, what Janek learns, it is John who knows whether it would not make sense to start at a lower age, not from the age of 16. All of us who have children in primary school know that there are rare schools that offer children computer skills so early that children are required to make presentations in PowerPoint, seminars in Word, shoot and send movies to teachers - no, they should also be a target group. The demographic picture of Slovenia says that we also have more and more elderly people. If I understand the digital sphere well, the development of new tools is very fast and in a year things change. Then why is there going to be a digital inclusion analysis for two years? The digital vouchers provided for by the law will have to be spent in half a year, which coincides with those over 55 years of age that will have to be included in educational workshops. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that you will make a call for these education subsidies so that corruption will not again occur because, frankly, there is much room for manoeuvre for this. So, in the field of digitisation, it is imperative to make progress, not because we will be more on a European scale, but in order to facilitate the life of the Slovenians and also to allow for the faster economic development that we urgently need.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Over the past two years, the acute situation of the epidemic has led to an enormous increase in the need to acquire digital competences. This is why today's bill, which regulates the promotion of the digital inclusion of the population, has been prepared and would have launched the largest e-mailing programme in our country this year. This would be achieved through the introduction of digital vouchers worth 150 euros to which students, students and over 55 years of age would be eligible to attend courses that will be subsidised through public tenders. On the one hand, the aim is to enable older people to acquire basic digital skills, such as the use of an online bank, public administration services and the like. On the other hand, the aim of this measure is to digitise the school process and bring the technical knowledge and professions of the future closer to young people. They will, among other things, provide young people with free courses in advanced digital skills such as programming, robotics, artificial intelligence and digital entrepreneurship. In addition, the law also introduces the possibility of financial incentives to purchase new or renewed computer equipment that will primarily facilitate distance learning for young people. The epidemic has shown that many Slovenian families do not have sufficient computer equipment, and this problem is particularly acute in families with more children. The law will also help pension and disability organisations to purchase computer equipment. Non-aligned Members support all such investments towards the digital breakthrough of Slovenia, because they should be strategic priorities for each time. We are convinced that both the digital integration of the population and the digital transformation of the economy, public administration and the general public sector are prerequisites for the modernisation and development of our society as a whole. We would like to point out that Slovenia, at European Union level, is lagging behind the best and that, until last year, according to the digital society and economy index, it was below the European average, since only 55% of adults have basic digital competences. In addition, we have more than 100,000 households in Slovenia that still do not have access to high-speed broadband internet. Our objective should therefore be to make this situation significantly better and bring Slovenia to the most advanced in Europe through appropriate measures and reforms. It is necessary to raise the share of digital skills to at least 80% of adult Slovenians by the end of this decade, while covering all unrelated households in the same period with the Internet. It is therefore necessary to make more efforts in the future to strengthen awareness of the benefits of using digital tools for the lives of individuals and society as a whole, to promote an interest in technical knowledge and digital virtues, to enhance understanding and the responsible and safe use of digital technologies, and thus to strengthen citizens' active involvement in the information society. I believe that the digital progress achieved would make a significant contribution to promoting people's creativity, to increasing the competitiveness and productivity of our economy and, finally, to removing many bureaucratic obstacles. We are pleased, however, that, in the context of the public hearing, the government has also taken into account some of the key comments on the proposed solutions, as it was originally envisaged in the law that only students of natural and technical study programmes, and not students of other study courses, would be entitled to the digital voucher, and that students of all the other study courses and programmes, which we certainly welcome, were included among the beneficiaries of the vouchers. At the same time, we point out that the law should take more into account the specific needs of certain groups of people who are most disadvantaged in their integration into the information society. The law should clearly prohibit discrimination and order the equalization of the chances of the most vulnerable. In doing so, we also agree with the opinion of the Advocate for Equality, who suggested that all, especially people with disabilities with poorer wealth, less educated, older and similar [[sign for the end of the debate]] vulnerable groups have access to those incentive measures that they need to participate fully in the information society, depending on their situation in life. At the same time, I am particularly committed to reducing gender differences in the field of digital competence. Of course, we will not oppose the unconnected Members of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Digital inclusion has many more elements than it seems today from this debate. On the one hand, it is clear that many people are already living more in the virtual world – especially for young people – than in the real world, that they are working there, creating, playing. There is a lot going on in the digital world, and those who are excluded from it find it difficult to get involved in society as a whole. This also applies to the field of work. After all, today's digital inclusion-related competences are almost expected of anyone who is just running for a much more demanding job. Digital inclusion is used in the administration and this has proved very useful in the last pandemic. A very big step has also been taken here by the government and deserves all the praise and support. But there's another part we haven't talked about today. This is digital inclusion and its importance when it comes to security and when it comes to democracy. This has proved to be true in those days when unfortunately the world is witnessing an attack that is not as far away from us as Russia seems to be to the sovereign country of Ukraine. And what is the point of this story? For the first time it has been shown that what gives security, in decision-making places, are people who are determined and firm individuals of the true values that the international community respects and Slovenia has, we can be proud of that. And you've noticed that, in the central Slovenian media, on the Internet, you can. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, digital inclusion is also very important because of democracy. More, including the issue of security. Where, tell me, another country in the world where on the day of the military aggression against the sovereign state took place, under the pretext that that country is an artificial creation, on national television someone explained, lakay that that country itself is an artificial creation. This, ladies and gentlemen, has happened on RTV Slovenia. It was sovereignly said that Slovenia is an artificial creation. The day another country was attacked under the pretext that it was a work of art. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a role that is already beyond just a democratic role, but, of course, the next step is to be taken in the area of security. This is why digital inclusion in the modern world is so important. Because if you have the Lakai media that are being put to good use, not for the benefit of the home country, but for some foreign aggressor, then you need at least the Internet to tell you what is really what security is and what you are doing in Slovenia and the whole democratic world, we are doing. It is said to protect the sovereign state, to defend sovereignty and to respect internationally recognised borders. Unconditional. And Slovenia, of course, is not an art creation. Slovenia under the Constitution is a country established on the basis of the inalienable will of the Slovenian people, the inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. This is even in the Slovenian Constitution. And then how can it happen that we have a medium that declares such things during the war? This borders on high treason, ladies and gentlemen. Do we all know that? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, digital inclusion is so much more important in the modern world, it's also said the other side of the medal that people can learn all the other side of the truth, how violently Ukraine is currently winning, in these conflicts, that the film you can see on the Internet, no one our television has turned, national certainly not, self-broken tanks, the whole street [[sign for the end of the debate]] . This, ladies and gentlemen, is the message that should come to everything. Today, digital inclusion does not only mean competence, it does not just mean an easier part of the government, it also means security, it also means democracy, it means freedom of the public word, it means free movement of information, it means the exercise of constitutional rights. For all these reasons, [[sign for the end of the debate]] In the SDS, the proposed law is fully supported and we will also support those who are being amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Are digital vouchers necessary because of the country’s security or defence interests, and are they necessary to remedy the consequences of natural disasters? Will they prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country? The digital vouchers themselves are none of this, unless, of course, the rulings see in these hard-to-repar consequences for themselves if they do not split just before the elections for a few more 10 million vouchers. That's why he's in such a hurry, and that's why this urgent procedure is. Because, at this point, what else is this law on supposed digital inclusion like the abuse of power to citizens, czech, did we give you again? It is inappropriate to refer to an epidemiological situation. Sharing money to buy computers and mice two years after the outbreak of the pandemic will make it easier to learn from a distance, but it is an unprecedented hypocrisy. At the time when we had the longest closed schools and the worst epidemiological picture around us in LMŠ, we were aware of the pressure of many families who could not provide children with adequate distance learning equipment to ensure that the state would take care of this because you probably remember the coalition members with supporters how you rejected our amendment to the sixth anti-Korona package in November 2020, which envisaged this help in purchasing computer equipment for the schooling youth. You've made a smooth sweep of that idea. Today, you will support this: the acquisition of computers as a means of digital inclusion, and this law does not distinguish between what is computer literacy and what is the acquisition of digital skills, and it does not interfere with the target groups of the beneficiaries of the vouchers based on any analysis of the digital inclusion of the population, but divides the vouchers. Of course, within all population groups it is difficult to determine the optimal target groups if you do not do some analysis and just lean on some kind of public opinion survey, but the easiest way to do it is to do it this way. This is until between the Digitalisation Strategic Council and the Digitalisation Minister, that before the elections you remember what if we distributed a few more vouchers. They rely on a public opinion survey that expects the greatest need for computers in families with less than 500 euros per family member, but this survey also shows that more than one fifth of those with more than 5,000 euros are also complaining that they are feeling a shortage of computer equipment. Those with the lowest income will not recover much from these vouchers, and those with the highest will not need them. The student organisation warned that during the epidemic, it had shown how unequal conditions for young people to have access to digital skills education and that the state should make sense for every primary school student, student or student who, due to family or social conditions, is not in an equal position with peers, so in LMŠ we are not against such aid even after all. However, we advocate the principle of rationality or help to those who really need it. In this case, the value of this aid to an individual could also be higher and could be closer to the objectives that the law wants to pursue. Any movement towards greater digital inclusion of the population is welcome, it is necessary, but at the moment it smells too much of a pre-election benefactor, with the hands of computer hardware traders being particularly wavering.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u22	Thank you. Good-bye! Of course, the Social Democrats have read the law. Now, if someone's watching this, they can't imagine what it is. The law is on 16 pages and has 31 articles. The legal and legal service has justifiably criticised 22 of the 31 articles and the latter writes the entry into force of the brief if I put this aside almost three quarters of the law and then somehow amended up and down. The law actually has four parts. The first part of the law is if I express myself as the computer starch proponents say. There's some shouting scribbling that would fit more than a draft of a white book on how to deal with this problem that we really have and that hasn't happened since yesterday. We've had this problem somewhere since the late 1990s. The second part of the law actually speaks about it, let's get a little propaganda going to close it down. And now if this is suggested by a party who has a vice-president of the defence ministry, where you know how these funds revolved around some of the media with a truly imaginable range, there is little legitimate and sceptical question here. The third part of the law addresses these vouchers, which have been talked about a lot and, in the way it addresses them, represents two. Firstly, prices are likely to go up through the most basic political economy of supply and demand. Now in its original form it was even written that with a voucher of equal price or less. That's probably what even falls on the stop. Someone will come with money to buy a mouse, and it'll be more expensive than the one who buys the vouchers. The largest pearls of this law are essentially paragraphs 29 and 30 of the transitional and final provisions. Now it's been 55 days, now it's two months, and in short, the vouchers are pre-election. Be careful then, the first digital inclusion analysis is done in March next year and the first promotion plan is made in June next year. Now that we're all gonna understand. It's about as if I bought a tractor with all the connections, John Deer, and the party that proposes to say goodbye after the government has to buy a tractor through one of their visible members, then in five, not five months, not six months, good or more, start thinking about whether or not I'd be a farmer, and then before I'm allowed next year, I'm going to go ask myself what I'd be sowing in the fall. I apologize, my dears, but if this law were properly presented to my one-and-a-half-year-old grandson, I could not support it. Of course, I understand the interest of a number of people who rightly wish to have this money. Here is a Member of the SDS, who has worked for a long time at the Ministry of Education, and we probably agree that at the beginning we should ask who has the Andragog and educational knowledge to approach it. Even the law as written shows that the vast majority of you have wasted time in thinking about information and information. On the one hand, we're talking about clouds, we're talking about epics, Breznik is gone, and on the other hand, it's a written law, a scribble of law as if you were writing it in the mid-1990s. Of course, we should from some analysis, because there are some of them, target certain groups of digitally excluded and consider how we approach them also by appropriate programming, which must also include these profiles that I have listed. In the 1990s, Scandinavian countries have thus solved the problem that this law is supposed to address. I don't just happen to have a productivity report here, I don't know if you've read it, Mr. Minister, Restoration is already the third term of Minister for Economic Development and Technology, the share of high-tech enterprises in companies that have growth as much as you would like is 9 percent. For Slovenia, after very poorly programmed new cohesion and NOO on smart transition, only Czechs, which has already done a bit, had a related populist government and Malta and Cyprus. That tells us everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u23	Thank you very much. It's still the last position. This is the position of the Left Group, which will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u24	Mr President, the Vice-President, I apologize, thank you very much for saying this. The law refers to the social component of digital transformation. And that is why the population of the Republic of Slovenia actually divides into nine target groups, of course the most important of which are preschool children, school-bound children, students, students and so on. And so far, everything is nice and well, very professional or also very fragmented. But watch out, it's basically just a smoke screen. This is essentially a smoke screen for two essential measures of the law, which are the ordering of educational and promotional campaigns and the subsidisation of promotion projects, and which are between measures to promote digital competences and digital technologies and their use. However, these two measures will certainly make a significant contribution to the benefits of certain digital technology providers as well as to the providers of computerisation services on the Slovenian market, of course, who are loyal and loyal to this current government and policy. And unfortunately, this current government is running a widespread and very expensive populism, even pre-election populism, and it's literally on our account, and boasts that it's not just the vouchers, it's the candy bar, but actually in the same breath it doesn't say that it's actually doing it with our money, with our budget, with our budget, and actually in the end we're going to pay these candy and candymakers to the people, so it's clear. We also read in the explanation of the law that it is an integral and systematic solution to the problem. In this case, marriage would not be as hasty as it was today or as hasty as it was last week. And by what procedures is the adoption of this law going on, everything is more than normal. Even as a result of haste, the proposal for a law is not of sufficient quality and thus the risk remains that Slovenia will not achieve its set objectives in the field of digital competence and that it will unfortunately ineffectively spend money or European funds intended for the very digitisation of society. The law also has considerable financial implications and, above all, the non-selective sharing of these vouchers. As we have already found on the committee, unfortunately, these vouchers or gifts were the most important to me, and these are primary school students, because during the co-pid crisis, families with multiple compulsory children attending primary school were major problems in providing equipment or attending the zoo alone. As it is said, the law is inconvenient, unconceived, and unfortunately also by false measures. However, public money must be spent on public institutions and their programmes, not on vote buying or channelling money into any private pocket. The measures to be taken by each government at all times must be socially and solidarity-oriented and, above all, social justice. In any case, we will be held in Levica and I will vote as abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Five registered. Dejan Kaloh begins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u26	President, thank you so much for your word. I will follow more or less the comments of this amendment, and I would like to say in my first words that I absolutely agree with the relevant law presented by the Minister-designate. The aim of increasing this digital development of the economy and the whole of society is very important. I think that all the proposals in this very narrow law, from the purpose of digital vouchers to the computerisation of the entire population, and in particular in the field of older pensioners and disabled persons, I think that the goal will be achieved by 2028, that is to say, up to 80%, to digitally describe and acquire this much-needed knowledge and skills in the digital field. Now with the coalition amendments to include the school of compulsory children of the last triad among the beneficiaries of the digital voucher 2022 in order to precisely define this group in the area of equalization the possibility of disabled persons, of course it improves only the legal matter, which I will also support, as the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Article 9 speaks of target groups that will receive special attention, namely digital inclusion. It talks about pre-school children and all secondary school compulsory students and students of all stages of the programme and working activity, inactive adults and persons receiving pensions and disabled persons. In this regard, it is also necessary to comment on the position expressed by Mr Rudi Medved, LMŠ, and again reiterated the truth about how schools were most closed in Slovenia. So I can only comment so that a hundred times repeated lie becomes the truth, and I will not allow it, and I will always be there. That's not true. We didn't have at least the time of closed schools, but we didn't have the longest closed schools, and the schools weren't closed at all, but they were taught from a distance. And the data is available on Unesc's website, on the site that talks about Covid and education during Covida's time, very clear data are. I must also say that digital education has gone well, that the results of graduation and national knowledge testing have been very solid, and that in the meantime some schools or, I will say, many schools have found that there are also different pedagogical practices that are actually welcome. However, some experts in the field of special needs have even found that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u29	My colleague, please return to the amendment and article.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u30	Thank you. I'll keep going. So as far as the target groups are concerned, Slovenia has already launched a large-scale action in 2004-2008, namely e-schooling, and many teachers have been educated in this action. However, after these years this action did not continue so intensively, but we know, with other governments, who led the Government 2004-2008, but we know that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has regularly published calls for computer purchases since 1990. And at the time of the crown, it acquired a lot of computers. If we are thinking about digitally involving our school-bound and students and students, it is important to say that there are curricula in schools that for selective subjects that contain basic knowledge of computer work, Word management and Excel Internet management, and in secondary schools they are already learning programming. The fact is, however, that the issue needs to be intensified more in both the field of education and, more importantly, in the area of adults. I must say that the action is very similar to that of the time when the Ministry of Education, under Dr. Beast, introduced for the first time a free charter of textbooks. In addition, these textbooks could be taken home by students and students, while at school they had textbooks, spare books for the bench, so that they did not have to carry heavy bags. But now that they will get it, we can know that in schools they will be provided with laptops, computers, and that they will be able to have their computers at home, and it is also important that students, students, students work at home. We know that student life is expensive to pay rent for a room. Sometimes this is subsidised more or less, depending on the income of the family, but the voucher, which will also reach this goal of the group of students, will be extremely welcome. In fact, they can no longer work or educate themselves through existing programs without having the opportunity to communicate with their teachers through the computer. So this part remains for those who receive a pension, that is, pensioners. For them, they will be able to buy or buy a computer that is of exceptional importance. In this way, they also remain in contact with society or with people, friends, acquaintances, even when physical abilities or other circumstances do not allow them to associate. This is of exceptional importance, and this is of utmost importance to the preservation of mental functions. Now, if we are saying that all these target groups are covered, then it is also wise that all these target groups receive these benefits, which the law brings. I appreciate the need for the law to have really been amended in many articles, but somewhere has to be started. It is necessary to start somewhere and with an improved text and taking into account the comments made by the Law Service, the law is in fact appropriate to help our people of all ages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm a little confused, president. Because if I went that far, they'd probably take my word for it. Because if I am right in front of me, the amendment to Article 9 of the Coalition refers to putting a comma behind the word of a disabled person and adding “as defined by the rules on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons”, resulting from a notice from the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the parent working body on 25 February this year, that the target group should be defined more precisely. This is an article if we are strict, Mr Tanko, which I would like to discuss here. And as I've already said in my opinion, this is where a person would expect us to come from thinking about different handicaps and how we can get closer if we don't get rid of this handicap of people who have disabilities, I also have a little bit of eyes made, and how we fix it. We're still under Cerar's government, if I'm not mistaken, we've adopted that law that public administration of websites, that portals should start to be regulated, and I don't have the feeling that we've made a lot of progress. Some other story that went personal to my liver 25 years ago. At the time, when various business associations were collecting money for Braille, I wondered how one Braille line cost 20, 35 thousand marks. That's when we used to operate on the stamps. These matters should be discussed. Now there is a story to be started. And love God, in what state this law has come to the National Assembly, someone who has completed, I don't know, Meira, two years of law in any college in Slovenia, that he should do something like this for a seminar assignment exam. And don't go on to senior year. For five and a half years I've been listening, the Army has been talking about how we're all, I don't know, incompetents, up and down, but this government obviously isn't able to make a law, which I don't even know. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u33	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u34	which doesn't even feel me. [[…]] A little breadth, if she had a Mojca [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u35	My friend, you too [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u36	I'll be done. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u37	same warning [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u38	I'll be done. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u39	Like I gave it to Mojka [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u40	you're not. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u41	Mozzie Boxer [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u42	Ending [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u43	Go back to the article [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u44	Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u45	and the amendment. [[..]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u46	I'm done. Because I'm basically not surprised. If Prime Minister Seven hangs on Twitter for eight hours a day, then we have something.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u47	Thank you very much. First of all, I've told you what principle this article will be discussed and the amendment tabled. I'm such a fellow boxer in the part where she passed the warning, and I'll stay. And I suggest you stick to the content. This is not the second case on the Committee, which is dealt with in or covered by the previous Rules of Procedure, but this is a matter for discussion on a specific matter. You'll have an explanation of vote later. However, you have already stated the position of the party or of the parliamentary group. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic with his associates! I may start a little differently and point out that this is a law that means first, in the history of Slovenia, the first integrated regulation of the area of promotion of the digital inclusion of the population. Whether the law is bad or not, this will be decided by the Members by vote. However, in the parliamentary procedure, we have a number of options for improving the law and that is why amendments have been tabled. We have united in the coalition on the amendments. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 5 / 15 The amendments have now been tabled, the SAB amendment has also been tabled and we are discussing, discussing and voting. Digital transformation, according to our assessment, requires first education to obtain digital skills, competences, and this digital transformation will not only help solve the current health crisis, but will also be a key driver for economic recovery, green growth and the strategic autonomy of the European Union. The amendment to Article 9, of course, now the public does not know what Article 9 is talking about. It is extremely important, however, in the section of the target group. And it says so in the amended bill: The promotion measures are aimed at increasing the digital inclusion of all the people of the Republic of Slovenia who are defined by the following target groups. The first pre-school children, the second compulsory children, the third secondary school students, the fourth higher education students according to the regulations on higher education, the fifth secondary school students, the fifth and third grade students according to the regulations on higher education, the sixth group of professional staff in education and education, the professional staff in higher vocational schools and higher education teachers, the scientific and higher education staff, the seventh group of active and inactive adults under labour market regulation, the eighth group of persons who receive pensions under the rules on pension insurance or from a foreign pensioner and nine disabled persons. This is what the Legislative and Legal Service has commented on, and that is why we are now extending this ninth point with the text “disability as defined by the rules on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities”. And this is the amendment. We will, of course, support him. We'll also support a whole law that isn't made like that. At first, there were indications that an emergency procedure was necessary. Yes, but if the procedure were very necessary, it would be even better, because we are very, very late and it is pre-eminent, colleagues and colleagues, because we know for ourselves that every day is pre-election, except for election day, peaks, right? So I am very sorry that we did not form these digital transformation services two years ago. They would certainly have come a long way and, as far as “preference” or “pleasibility” is concerned, yes, in fact, implementation will begin again in the pre-election period, but this will be after April 24th. And there will be pre-election time. I just want to warn you that the law actually has some basis, it's not meant to be. The strategic world has also done a lot of work here. Unlike some, I highly appreciate it. There are exceptional experts and, if you look at measurements or public opinion research on digital competences made by the Faculty of Applied Social Sciences, more than 600 people have been asked and in fact, colleagues and colleagues can be appalled. People know e-taxes, but they use them, yeah, I can say, a handful. People know e-health, but they use a few. And there is also the problem of our legislative process, when we are often discussing that any process under the e-government or e-tax or anything to be done digital. And we say, yes, no, no, no, we can't do that, so we just make it digital, and we say, no, no, we can't do that, because older people don't have these skills and so on and we take that into account and what we have now, we have two systems. One is that pedestrian, classic, we all know it for years, then we make another e-, so digital, and now we need both systems to develop, both systems to maintain, which is actually the worst. Of course, we all aim, surely, we are here on, we have the same interest that we aim in the direction that someday, once, I hope in some medium-term future, that all these services of the country will be just and alone and exclusively digital. This will in fact mean a less bureaucratic system, less mistakes and so on. As it is said, the amendment to Article 9, of course, I have co-signed it, I will support it, as well as the whole of Parliament and the same law, which is extremely important for our society and is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! So, the debate is supposed to be about Article 9 that they are referring to. [[?]] All target groups, therefore. Now, what we've come for, or whether the billers have come to the target groups, we can talk about, I could say, what extensive research, about, I would say that people might otherwise understand about people who are illiterate, semi-written, in the digital world or illiterate. Unfortunately, I have to say that the most illiterate people even exist in education, the ones who should be teaching digital content to people in digital age. This is not my subjective opinion, but it is the opinion of many experts, including some teachers. And that's why it's so important that we consider this law that if within us, respected colleagues and colleagues, good will and not words, you do it because of elections, right, that's, look, this is really completely depressed, because you've ruled for 15 years, and you haven't done anything about digitisation. That's exactly what this is. We are doing this because Slovenia has extensive bureaucracy at 1.6 workers per disabled person. [[?]] We debirocratise this country. We do this in order to make Slovenian products, »Made in Slovenia«, with higher added value and to increase [[?]] more people worked instead of bureaucracy, worked in the “hi tech” economy of Slovenia and Slovenia will be a “hi tech” country, and I am sure this was my vision, this is a vision of my colleagues in NSa, SDS and the current coalition and vision of this government, and this will also be a vision of the Slovenian nation. This will be a key major goal of Slovenia's becoming the most developed small countries. This is a vision and based on this vision it is okay that even these target groups, that even the disabled can feel that the fourth industrial revolution with all the technologies that somehow work, that even the disabled may not know how much they are involved. Perhaps the phenomenon of disability in an area where you are disabled is that in another area you can be better than the case of blind or visually impaired people, that they develop an incredible sense of hearing, for space, for listening. They detect some vibrations that may not be detected by us who are once again healthy, so it is also important that we correct it if the Legislative and Legal Service has said that it is only possible to be too general, so point 9 of Article 9, and that we have done so. So digitisation also for people with disabilities who are perhaps limited to their handicap today can perform a number of new services from home, new working relationships, rate in some relationship and, of course, look at more people will be digitally written or included as this law says perhaps with another term. Less people working in bureaucracy will be more connected to things via the internet through artificial intelligence, our business environment will be better for those serious companies that will come to Slovenia, and part of this law is also part of some comprehensive laws that prepare our business environment for the entry of these technology companies in Slovenia also the Income Act and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] All this with the aim of a serious technological breakthrough and what the Minister has said today, what I have said for 10 years since I am here in Parliament, that we need the number of engineers for the number of inhabitants, as they did 30 years ago in South Korea, when they decided in Taiwan, Hong Kong, where I visited their technology companies. For us, the most important information is, say, 25 years ago, how many engineers there are per population of peaks. All other professions are, of course, subordinate and work toward helping and adding to our knowledge. Whoever runs high-tech will lead the world. You will see this now when there are also war situations and you will see that the world and the cards are mixing in on a new one you could say in the zenith of this fourth industrial revolution, where comes into the final phase and so luckily Slovenia is at least at the last stage adapting to some law that I would call it writing or at least half writing if we were already illiterate with me at the head. I could say that I have mastered a whole range of technologies, and I find that someone who is 17, 18 years old in some areas is more in writing than I am. If we were to sweep each one of us before our own thresholds and say we could take this situation seriously, I would call it self-analysis, then listen to these things will go away. We can't talk about the Internet thing, about artificial intelligence, about nano technologies and everything else, if we don't have any personnel, and if we don't even have basic technologies that were developed in the early 1990s or the late 80s. [[Incomprehensible]] These are the facts, dear colleagues. You have to be aware of the empire and the world has always failed and all these technological and social changes that have come after the first, second, third and now even in the fourth decisive game, bring new players to the world markets of new players. I will conclude this part of my debate with thought from before 1984 when he said in the Cold War that he would defeat the Soviet Union and its communist satellites only with a new doctrine so called in three points. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] The first point is the low price of oil, the second point is the ban on the sale of microprocessors at the time, mainly motorola's 68 thousand microprocessors, as the first 16 bit microprocessors and the third point of the development of new weapons based on the microprocessor is the so-called start of the old war. In five years, the Soviet Union and its satellites were on their knees. This is a fact and this is also a final blow to these countries, so we can learn something from this history. Slovenia has an incredible opportunity. I say more than once here we don't rule out here we have to get involved. I also proposed an initiative to put the Committee on Digital and Green Transformation on the Slovenian Parliament, because it was absolutely necessary that we now have a job prepared by my colleague Andrijanic, I must acknowledge, ambitiously, sovereignly and so on, so I welcome him. We're giving extra energy to his field. And respected colleagues, instead of looking at all the committees, the committees that called them are the commissions themselves, where they would be making some sort of affair. Some investigative committees of investigative committees. If this is the future of Slovenia, the exclusion of each other, pointing fingers at each other, respected colleagues, I hope that it is time for reflection. So we have a chance. We have a law before us, Article 9 of this law, which clearly states that the objectives of the group must be from pre-school children to disabled persons through pensioners and that if Slovenia goes on this train, if it joins this train, respected colleagues, I think Slovenia will be on the right track. So I appeal to you, please, together, if we see any mistakes, mistakes are always, but we fix them. That is why we have tabled these amendments, and I will conclude with this. So to correct this general word of the disabled and thus replace the word relationship with the disabled, as defined by the rules on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons. So much for my side of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word "Anja Bah Žibert." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Well, I myself support the amendment to Article 9, which somehow defines disabled persons more clearly than it was the initial proposal of the law. In fact, it now specifically stipulates that disabled persons will also be able to access these services in accordance with the rules on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons. The fact is that in these matters it is important that we be very specific, precise and that we do not miss any group. For I believe that this law, as it is and given that it also identifies the possibility of disabled persons, seems even more important to me that we are accurate and that we give the opportunity indeed to these groups, which can bring them very much, very much. Now I must say that I do not understand at all that anyone could have attacked this bill because I believe that this bill is neither a ministerial nor a so-called bill. I'll tell the minister the law, but it's social law. Why? Because by describing digitally, if we continue to move forward here, this will be important for society as a whole. So, even these digital vouchers, all that this law brings will affect the whole society. If they get it today, I'm going to say some of the benefits to the primary school in the last triad, which I fully agree that it's just the last triad, the high school, the students and the seniors over 55 years, it's not just going to benefit them, it's going to benefit all of us. Because if we take steps forward here and these people will also do some training early and then we can also provide certain services or materials for digital transformation and education, then this will affect the whole society. Now I have to say, because I am not going to stop by to support the other amendments tabled by the coalition. However, some of these are nomotechnics, while Article 9 and then Article 27 are both substantive and also talk about these categories, which would be included in order to obtain this voucher. I am now pleased that we will indeed be taking important steps in this area. However, I also agree with the decision that as far as primary school children are concerned. I hope that the President will not correct here because I know we are talking about the amendment to Article 9, but I cannot, at this amendment, pass the amendment to Article 27 when we are talking about children in the last triad. Why am I connecting them? Because I don't think it's good that it's already good for elementary school students at the beginning, first of all these kids have to learn to write, seriously, because today we have problems that children are illiterate because they dominate some phones and what I also said on the board, it would be bad if they swapped this description for some computer games. Here we have to be careful, not least the companies are already dealing with addiction, but here I'm not talking about the quality use of this advanced technology, but in fact in a way, forgive my expression, but the abuse. I say that as far as these individual computer games are concerned and what leads to children's addiction is also abuse and children see and want to have, if they have a neighbor I will have, but then these kids can't even talk anymore, or write, or hang out, but everything happens sometimes just through computers. So I welcome the fact that this is a matter of substantive reporting, that it is also a new quality in life after that, but it is important that we include in here also the description of other forms. In fact, Slovenia has quite a problem with functional illiteracy, and I hope that this step will also be a step in this direction, that we will make progress here too, and I see in this law that this will also affect functional literacy, which is relatively poor in our society. I remember some results, students who actually had a lot of knowledge, but when it came to functional illiteracy, we talk to Slovenian children, but they were bad and they were bad in those statistics. By absolutely supporting the law, I am pleased that the ministry has also recognized this need to limit children, as far as children are concerned, I am undermining this amendment, it is no longer, sometimes it is less, and in this case it is less definitely applicable. By moving forward, let us move forward together and once again welcome this so-called society law for a better and quality life of the whole society.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u53	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mocha Boxer, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I must complement my colleague Anjo Bah Žibert, who spoke about the misuse of funds, here I fully understand it, but it must be said that this law is designed to prevent actual abuse. If we let children, students, students just use these funds without a plan of involvement, then it will be really bad. And this law makes it impossible, and this law systematically sets up knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u55	Comrade Boxer, please, this is a debate, this is not a replica. Hold on. I'll give a new round of reports no problem, just stick to the rules. The replica of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u56	I somehow recognized myself as opposed to this law. No, but see if we're still going around this 9th. If you'd read it. The promotion measures are aimed at increasing the digital inclusion of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd make a dot here. And then it goes on, which are defined by the following target groups of preschool children, disabled children and all. There's only a baby or a baby or a baby that's not a preschool kid, and in fact someone who's an older person, if I say so in human language, doesn't have a pension and there's no disability. In short, we're basically all involved here, but you know. And then they would say target groups will be defined on the basis of an analysis and a programme to be carried out by Asab. [[?]] If you haven't. You know, because like it's written, I'm sorry, legally and also implementingly quite a pumpkin, just that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u57	Thank you very much. This was also not a replica, but a debate that would be appropriate for the next round of application. You have the floor for Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! I also welcome the proposed law. In Slovenia we really need a significantly greater digital inclusion of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. And I am pleased that you have completed section 9 of the Act, by trying to cover all stakeholders with a change, except for those shareholders, as just stated by colleague Trček. But all I have to do here is point out one more aspect. That sometimes I feel that we are speeding up digitalisation in all areas, society and people cannot follow this procedure. But I have a problem that, instead of simplifying procedures, the public administration is complicated. Instead of simplifying the use of e-government by digital signature, it complicates the use of e-government in large areas, since registration, re-registration and so on must be added everywhere. It seems to me that people are tired of getting an e-signature that they have to regulate re-registers on every administration on every portal. And this does not seek to relieve, simplify and essentially deter users from digitisation. And I will be terribly happy that we will once again really war a friendly e-government for citizens and citizens, not that we are becoming this administration. Just what we're running away from officials now, and on the other hand we're also becoming a society, a single society, as if we were ourselves, not that we're part of a whole, that we're not actually going to hang out with this e-government, and we're not actually going to be able to put people in one room in front of the computer and communicate. I have a feeling that citizens will be even more cut off from information if they do not know. I miss something else, this is not the 150 euros, this is absolutely welcome and I also welcome education, but I miss at all levels, educational levels of learning content, useful learning content to be already a process of education, not courses, but in fact that we are raising, but not theory, but above all practice, practical work to make citizens and citizens truly digital, as we see that they are no longer written, that they do not know how to complete the forms. Then where is the literacy in the digital field? Here we have one major deficit in the entire society. I hope that in the future we can arrange this once, come [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u59	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u60	until simplification [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u61	Sorry, we don't have a general discussion [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u62	e-governments. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u63	We have a debate on the article and the amendment. [[…]] There is no general discussion at this stage. Anyone else want a word? Bostian Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u64	I will also be involved in the debate on this Article. But I would like to draw attention to one point, which has also occurred during the outbreak of this kivid, when we were also warned from these societies or from the organisations of the blind and the visually impaired that, in fact, they were unable to access information on the Internet during this epidemic, so to speak, they did not have access to the Internet, in their own words, to physical information and they did not get information on the phone; perhaps the Minister is also aware of it. And this is also one of the aspects that we must not forget or face more specifically in order to adapt to the Internet’s tools or websites, so that, even in times like those of the Coronavirus, the blind and the visually impaired can come to the right information, especially to the quick information, because a lot of the blind or the visually impaired wanted to obtain information as soon as possible, but because of all these stakeholders they could not get to them. This is how I draw attention to this aspect, and I hope that in the future more attention will be paid to this social group of people with disabilities, the blind and the visually impaired. I hope you already have a plan in this sense to move forward so that you can do something in this direction as soon as possible. As it is said, all groups must be taken care of and those most vulnerable in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u65	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I don't see a desire to discuss it, so I'm closing it. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this amendment corrects something that should have already been properly corrected on the committee, and you are not. It refers to the granting of subsidies. After all, I wanted to make an amendment, but I knew we wouldn't bless it in the current coalition that supports this government. As I have already said in my position, this fourth and fifth indent should be a little more specific - what kind of professional competence to carry out education. Someone probably needs adequate Andragog skills to give e-totals to adults. We may also need training in pedagogy, in the field of special pedagogy, in the field of work with disabled groups. Because the way it's written, I'm a little scared. You know, I'm old enough to remember how those education programs went. The colleague Škrinjar was at least so fair that she went there to the first Janša government, but since we had the Ministry of Information Society, a few million - at the time we counted in brands - it was already mixed into these stories in the 1990s. The Council does not start with any government and will not end with it, nor will Slovenia. And in this light there were too many educations when they taught us, I don't know how the disk is composed, if you remember the older ones, but how many sectors and up and down, and there you were wondering, oh dear, what do we need? And that's why I'm still saying it's some kind of scrotum. And it is not just me, who claims that a number of the most eminent experts for the information society and politicians who have called on some call for this to be done on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u67	Thank you very much. My friend, this is about the process of obtaining subsidies, not about the way the law is passed. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u68	Yeah, it's about this amendment, and then a little bit further. Otherwise, I can understand some of the purpose of the legislator who wrote this to somehow limit the purpose of these vouchers. But if I do a little cartooning, a real example: there's going to be a market inspection, someone is going to collect these vouchers together, they're going to buy a computer and they're going to hack into some computer game or someone is going to watch football or, if you want, because of me, erotic content and then they're going to say market inspector, and that's not it. You know what I mean? It's a bit of a life-sustaining thing. What's it gonna be like? You know, that's how I'm asking the devil's lawyer. It's going to be a little hard to check. Well, we can't do it now, come on, thank God, if someone puts a little bit on the pile and you bought this computer equipment that they couldn't, but like it was written, the young people could screw it up with what the correct uses of what are the wrong uses.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I suggest you stick more to the article and the amendment. Boštjan Koražija, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u70	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I too will join my colleague Trčko here and I wonder whether it will be possible in the case of these vouchers, even when it comes to primary school students, in case they have a family, I don't know, two or three children, whether they can give a voucher together or if they have to buy a computer and only use 150 euros on that product, or if they can use two vouchers for one computer or use it. So in this sense, because there were also some questions by email, as I recall. And I am also interested, as we have previously understood on the board, that these phones do not count on smart phones, buying smart phones, that it will not be possible, because this has also been quite a few questions or inquiries by e-mail to our Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u71	Thank you very much. You might want to answer, Minister or someone If not, we continue. [[…]] As you wish. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u72	Thank you very much for these comments and questions. The pooling of vouchers will, of course, be allowed, as these vouchers are based on the principle of tourist vouchers. We have decided that the use of these vouchers will not be possible for smart phones, precisely in view of the concerns of the profession related to the digital dependence of young people, especially because for these educational and research purposes for which we actually share these vouchers, mobile phones are not used. That's why you need other computer tools, whether it's a stationary, mobile, or a tablet computer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting paragraphs 27 and 28 into the debate. Since the amendments of the SDS, NSI and the specific amendments of the SAB Group to Article 27 are related to the amendment to Article 28, we will discuss both amendments, all amendments to these articles together. At the same time, I inform you that amendments to the amendments of the SDS, NSI and Articles 27 and 28 have been published on the e-club. I see there's a lot of desire for discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. Eight registered. First he gets the word Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say, somehow I don't understand why you're targeting just the last triad of elementary school. The SDS delegation has somehow spoken before, but you know, I'll tell you on my home case, and they'll fight me again. The difference between my almost 29-year-old daughter and my 13-year-old daughter is the intergenerational difference in digital literacy and competence. Now, I am very fond of Scandinavian models of education, public education and I hope that here with my colleague Škrnjar at least here we agree that there are some of the best in the world, in fact by the age of 12, something that they call Kraft is a key subject of primary education. Connect, if you want, the motor of manual skill and intelligence. But you know, today this Kraft actually includes robotics. Now you're saying that someone who only goes to third, fourth grade and doesn't do that? Do you understand what I'm saying? And I remember myself back in some village school, 45 years ago we had such a good principal, then Fisher bought us the sets that are still today and in the sense that it's kicking in here, in the last triad, and saying, what, the rest of us are learning about beauty, is basically the opposite of the basic purpose of this law, because you're going to do something if you take seriously what colleague Anja Bah was saying, rule out the first two triads of elementary schoolmen basically from digital inclusion, you understand me?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your comment. I am afraid that there has been a misunderstanding here, that when it comes to subsidised courses of more complex digital skills, including robotics, no one will be deprived. These will be intended for all primary schools, all students and all students. In this particular case, we are talking about digital vouchers, which we will also give the last triads, but once again, free knowledge in all these areas will be available to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u78	Yeah, we don't get it a little bit, Mr. Secretary, but, uh, he's probably gonna want some kid then, I don't know, but I'm not gonna be working for Fisher's commercial right now, right, but I'm gonna buy something from the voucher to program at home. You need, you know, it's not necessarily in the cloud, you need, it's nice to have some hardware, especially what Beznik says about engineering.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Good-bye! See, for the Sab client, strong public education is one of the very important programming priorities and Covida's epidemic has shown how important this social subsystem is. Remember, there was a distance education and education of the youngest children and a lot of families did not have a suitable computer at home or have more children, but not every computer was available to every child and, of course, there were hardships. And in the SAB we immediately noticed when we got into the hands of this law that an important group of our fellow citizens was released, that is, those who are most vulnerable and who were most cut off from the educational system. That is why we have already drafted an amendment on the committee to include these children among those who are entitled to these, not student vouchers, but for these digital information vouchers. This amendment was not adopted at the time, it did not receive sufficient support, so today we are also in some way pleased that the coalition has only overlooked and somehow incorporated this amendment into its amendment, so that it has noticed that it is a mistake or that it has overlooked one large, large group of children. We must be aware that digital skills, the skills of the future and that on this basis, the economy will be based and we know that a strong economy is crucial for a strong social state, high wages and also higher pensions, and that, of course, we are pleased, and at the same time, we are sad that our amendment was not given sufficient support at the time, or that, for procedural reasons, it was not considered at all. Once again, digital skills are the skills of the future, they are key to future economic growth, to a strong social state, to higher wages and higher pensions, and we are therefore pleased that the coalition has recognized the need to address the difficulties of schooling children and parents who did not have computers and computer equipment at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u82	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, respectable team! Respectable colleagues and colleagues. First, let me say that I fully support and support the whole law on promoting digital inclusion, as well as the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. It is also supported by the general public. Here at the start we have to say that this law and, of course, also the amendment supports, and here I would really like to highlight, the American Chamber of Commerce Slovenia, the American Slovenian Educational Foundation Asef, the Diagnostic Organization of Slovenia, then the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs, the International Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises of Slovenia, the Slovenian Digital Coalition. And we're not done here. This law supports, you will not believe, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Novi Gorica, the Institute for Intergenerational Cooperation of Simbioz, the Union of Associations of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, the Union of Retired Slovenia, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the Association of Managers and could also be listed. That's why my thinking is that maybe someone in this marriage can only see some negativity, pessimism, very, very marginal nature. And if all educational institutions in the country support this law, I can only say thank God. But back to the article itself. Personally, I believe that the digital inclusion of the population is a prerequisite for social development, provided by the digital transformation of the economy, public administration and the general public sector and society as a whole. The law is the basis for the promotion of digital inclusion to become an obligation of the executive authority on a case-by-case basis. And here I agree, no marriage is perfect, we're all learning. And it is also under Article 27 that I welcome the will of the Minister and the Coalition that we have somehow included the school-bound children enrolled in the 7th, 8th and 9th classes. It is said that the purchase of computer equipment will also be promoted by a digital voucher for the so-called "D." The last triad. I have to say I support it. As I said before, I think of myself as a person who somehow pursues digital goals, but sometimes I also linger, and what kind of thing I also commend and not just seek negative qualities. That's why I'm going to commend this marriage. This law, too, I think Slovenian companies need it. Above all, that this society, in all kinds, from young to old, could learn a lot, but in particular, also educate and strengthen in areas that could have a positive impact in the future on economic cooperation as well, on economic components, and in particular on the development of Slovenia, which will also lead Slovenia to better jobs tomorrow, especially here I think of better quality and more productivity. I will support the amendment to Article 27 tabled by the coalition, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and More specifically. Even further, if I may, I will no longer answer, I will support all the amendments of the coalition. I will also support the entire Law on Promoting Digital Inclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u83	Thank you, too. The replica of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u84	Yes, thank you. Look, a respected colleague. The task of all of us 90 is to obtain quality laws through the legislative process. And it's my duty if there's a scratch to warn you it's a scratch. It is my duty, because politics is a public use of the mind if it has some reverse logic to draw attention to that. We will now accept something, an analysis of how this should go, we will adopt in six months, a plan of how this should go, and we will accept it in a good year. And Franz Beznik would have written you both.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u86	Thank you, Vice President. It is this amendment to Article 27 of the amendment tabled by the witness coalition that we have already pointed out at the committee's meeting that the Government or the ministry went headlessly into the whole matter, that is, without any consideration who or whose target groups the digital inclusion should cover, and on Friday the minister made it clear that primary school youth are not, nor did the law provide for it. Moreover, we have even heard here that because primary schoolchildren are obviously too digitally addicted, we will leave them a little bit behind. What happened last weekend? Apparently, the kids got better, they weren't digitally adopted anymore, at least not those last triads. What happens then to put everything on its head in 24 hours or 48 hours? Of course, now that I'm a little speculating, in a hurry, when these target groups were throwing together, they passed through the primary schools because they weren't voters, but then someone at the weekend figured out that the parents and the uncles and the aunts, and the noble ones are voters, so it's stupid to let go of such a target group, so many target groups, that they couldn't explain to them what they got during the campaign. And that's the whole point. Therefore, I say that the law in this part, as regards vouchers and especially primary school youth, is hypocritical that this government or coalition, a year and a half ago, on the same proposal that we tabled in the LMŠ Group of Members together with the opposition partners, has responded in an absolute manner and our proposal, which was precisely linked to the need for the schooling youth to have access to education and, consequently, to digital education, access to so that many families cannot afford these appropriate equipment and that the country is obliged that the country is the one who has to take care of it has not gone through. But now we're on the same track after a year and a half, when these things could have been settled and these kids would have already been digitally described, but a year and a half ago the electoral time wasn't as close as it is now. And when I talk about the failure of target groups when you say how incredibly comprehensively this law governs digital integration does not, it does not regulate it, but I could, I know that the lack of data for data within the country and you have not provided any serious analysis of the situation is not, no serious analysis of the situation was made before it happened, but even if you have not done it, at least the last report on the state of the index in Europe would look at it and it follows that age groups can only be one of the stones in this mosaic and that some of the other parameters when we talk about the needs for digital empowering are significantly more important and that is why now here in this law a comprehensive law practically omitted category is almost that all active populations, because it is not only about age. [[Incomprehensible]] If you have looked at the data that I do not now list them as a percentage of how important education is and how digital inclusion falls by the level of education. It's extremely declining, for example, in people with higher education and then downwards. Revenues of an extremely important category you have all mentioned in this more detailed presentation of what matters are all mentioned. [[Incomprehensible]] The area where people live is a significant difference between rural and urban areas, at least according to the available data. It is true, however, that these data from the European Commission combined in the so-called tenth index which speaks of the digitalisation of society and the economy are not fully reliable, and we all know this because these data come from so many different ends to one place that something is lost or misled many times. One is and here is mainly manipulation around this data or Slovenia has now gone from 16th to 13th place in 2020 or 2021, because here is where it actually wants to show that this phrase is the key “somewhere to start”. We're not a rock age. We are not in the Stone Age in Slovenia, and now this law, or this government, is going to fire us into the stars once and for all. You don't just have to read the data a little bit, and that tells us that Slovenia is practically in 13th place now, because of the changed methodology for calculating the tenth index. That's shut up all the time. And that according to the current calculation methodology, Slovenia has been here since 2016 all the time since 13, 14. What happened to this methodology? There are also some nuances around this recovery programme, but it is essential that they have eliminated the parameter of the use of internet services. This is very important because Slovenia was before this parameter was taken into account in 22 places among all EU countries. Of course, now, if you take this parameter off, then you jump on the scale. What is wise, however, is that the European Commission has done this and this parameter has set out, because of course it has shown completely false data because it is virtually impossible to determine how many people are actually using the Internet and not going together when this mantra is being sold, that in Slovenia less than half of people use the Internet as it cannot be. Only Facebook users are a million, and this is also the Internet when we talk about using the Internet. Therefore, only Facebook users are millions already only users of Facebook half of citizens use the Internet even if no one else does, so this data needs to be corrected when operating with them. To be correct and to say that Slovenia is the last seven, eight ices above the European average. Above the European average by all indicators. And that we do not use services in Slovenia in the country. That's not true. That's not true. Even more, according to the latest data for 2021, 77% of all internet users also use e-government services. 77%. That's what the data says. Now, if the fictitious data are the ones published by the European Commission, I don't know, but they're practically the only ones, because when you ask 500 people on the phone, of course it can't be merciless. However, a little more effort is needed and some deeper analysis may be needed, perhaps taking a look. I have also now seen that at least the OECD has published a preliminary analysis commissioned in 2019 on digital inclusion, in this case the services of the country, in particular, and how many people actually use this service. This is one very broad analysis and, of course, it would be because we did not pay to lie in a drawer somewhere, but it would certainly be good to lean on it. And of course it is not true that any e-government service or any other service offered by the State or reregistered must be registered, of course not. The digital certificate is the way that, of course, all the doors are opened for you, but when, on the other hand, we have virtually deleted the need for a digital certificate with this law on debarcation, because it can already be state writing or court because you can almost send mail to Facebook Messenger, it doesn't matter. [[Incomprehensible]] Of course, that's wrong. And that is what we have been stressing all along when we passed this law on demobilization. In fact, people need to be guided along the way to secure these digital certificates, because this is the way into the digital world, so that things are regulated at home from the couch, not that you have to walk from Pontius to Pilate, to arrange something for yourself, and that was a mistake. It is true, however, that this epidemic period has been delayed, when very little has been done to attract people to acquire these digital certificates, after they have come to need them, but they have been guilty of being stupid because they know nothing instead of being encouraged and it has been, these two years later, they are also behind in the field of digital inclusion. Very late. It is a shame, because today you could have significantly more digitally involved, because this is digital integration, if you are once on the road to managing matters that you have to deal with with with the country through a digital certificate, that is, of course, absolutely more than just computer-reading. As far as this broad support is concerned, I have no doubt that there has been such broad support for this law, but it is true that someone from the Ministry has apparently worked hard and went with the same paper around because many of these support has been practically expressed in the same way or with the same words or pre-photocopyed and bottom-up stamp. So, is that really the kind of support? Some of the key factors in this country, which are also familiar in the field of digitisation, do not feel that they have been involved, but no matter what I have to say to the end, I am pleased with the whole story, but this big shift in the construction of the broadband network. And here's where the big move was made. In fact, this call, we talked to the Minister on Friday about it because I did not know exactly where it was, which was published there, I think that we published it at the end of 2019 or at the beginning of 2020 at the Ministry of Public Administration, and I do not know how many failed calls before, but apparently it was well prepared and that it will be now, because the contractors have already been chosen on the basis of this call, close to 30 million or a little less, to build a broadband network, which will make a certain breakthrough in those areas, although Slovenia is not poorly covered, this hand on the heart, is also here above the European average, the problem will rarely be settled remote areas where it is almost impossible in physical form with cables to bring the internet and such areas will probably still have a big impact from the digital economy, but it will be fully viewed and with the call for a digital economy, I think that it is almost impossible that it is worth 7 or 8 million to live in almost entirely, and it will not have an impact on this almost entirely. We are not absolutely against the state aiding and co-financing the purchase of computer equipment for the digital integration of people. We note, however, that the selection of target groups was obviously wrong, that some target groups have been lost and not, but given the information on their competences should be included and we are not speaking here now with all the money that this Government has said over the past two years, I will not say confused, but I may have put in sometimes even needlessly, even if this 30 million higher amount, given the importance of digital inclusion, would not have been wrong, maybe we should have spent a lot of other things, but in this case we might have done better, but it is true that this taste of what was waiting for the moment when everything would have been made as a pre-election move, but it gives this sin of taste, otherwise I hope that it was really a good purpose, because if we were already in the case of the vouchers, it was really not necessary to wait as long as a pre-election move, but in some other cases the government has taken over the night. So it's that you had to study very hard to do this, it's not true if some concrete analysis was done and then you would have chosen these target groups to do it, but none of it was there, there was now shooting at the track, and after you found that it would be politically wise to include the last triad of the schooling youth, and then you did it. And we are not against doing that, too, to understand each other, because if I bring back my memory, in 2020 we proposed the same and broader, not just for the last triad, but then you didn't accept it. The proverb says it's good, it's better late than never, but in this case this proverb doesn't exactly apply. Better before the elections than after the elections, it's probably the saying that leads you to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Janez Moskritch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Dear previous colleague, Member of Parliament, Minister of the former Government, I must tell you something that, after school, would have been said that you were sitting on the committee's ears. That's probably what the minister would confirm. In fact, it was well said why a group of primary school children were not included in the original proposal. Let's go see what was involved. Thus, all the secondary school children currently in Slovenia were included 73 000 854. We know that their education must be based on independence. More importantly, our students are independent and properly equipped. These are 82 thousand 694. In primary school children, currently 193 thousand 158, the story here is slightly different and we have to help their parents here. I have a 10-year-old daughter myself in this age group, and I wouldn't have put my computer in her room without control. So, everything she needed, we were working together on the family computer and education was done this way. Because of all the experts' warnings that our youth likes to use all the technology, it quickly wins it, from smartphones, tablets, computers and other techniques, but unfortunately 80% of the time, this is my assessment, because, or say too much time, it uses tools that have little meaning in life, except to fill in time, some brain training and others. The tools that we want to encourage by applying this law, however, are linked to our daily life, our work, towards the country, the local community, and this is what we want to encourage by this law, and first of all, that we are aware that we need basic, legal and basic tools are first technology, and therefore one of the main objectives of this law is, therefore, this digital voucher, which is well valued in the 27th Article, which we are also talking about in this amendment. A marriage could be called something else. Now it's called the Digital Inclusion Promotion Act, and we've also talked to the committee about eliminating digital exclusion, and our primary school children are just getting involved in this and that's why they're using the technology used by parents and others, for example, by family members. Finally, I will support this paragraph 27 because, at the same time, with the combination of the ninth paragraph of this article, when we talk about integration, we will also help large families, so that in fact high school students or students who have to use technology alone will be able to get to this technology in this family when it is needed, of course. The student needs a computer on his own all day. And the elementary school kids, we saw that they had hours. They also had the opportunity already mentioned today, the real country has taken care of, local communities, primary schools, everyone has tried to equip the primary school youth as much as possible. And this is also in the final stage of the task, the right state to ensure in this time that we are fast, we have really quickly fallen into the need to move overnight to the great extent of the use of this technology that we are talking about today. However, it has been said nicely in the position of a member group, how many of us today have a digital green certificate, or what it is called, regarding vaccination. And then we see, the worst thing I see is a 15-year-old young man pulling a physical shape out of my pocket. We don't want that anymore. So we don't want this to happen if he knows how to use all the other tools already mentioned in Facebook, which is probably no longer for young people, but Instagram does all the rest, and Tick Tok does if he can make all the different movies [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, he did, he had this young man that I saw, so I'm mentioning him, so we've got a little 15-year-olds without a phone, but also all the congratulations to those who don't have if they make it in life without it yet. The aim is to provide that useful knowledge from certificates to transactions with the country, then to further train young people and then those who are already out of school. It is beautifully represented here that 17,000 citizens are still somehow educated after 30 years. And the law stipulates that there are additional programmes that we already know, including those that we have been working on in the local community, additional education programmes for the use of this technology. And this is already taking place in various local communities and is being attended by older ones. Now it's at the state level. And that's what we want. Thus, even if this amendment had not occurred, the legislation has already achieved its basic purpose of greater clarity, and in particular useful literacy in the field of digital technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u90	Thank you very much, chairman. Thank you very much for all your comments and questions. First of all, I would like to point out that, of course, this proposal for a law did not come to mind. It is followed by a very in-depth analysis of the current state of digital inclusion in this country. This analysis is not based solely on the data already cited today. This is the data of the European Commission, as well as of other international organisations such as the OECD. This analysis was based in particular on intensive dialogue with all key stakeholders active today in the field of digital inclusion in Slovenia. We have held meetings with more than 20 key organisations, let it be human universities and other non-profit organisations dealing with raising digital literacy. I would also include disability, pension and many other organisations, which represent those most vulnerable parts of the society that we wanted to address in particular with this proposal. Finally, we have also consulted the European Commission, which has also guided us to a large extent in the formation of target groups. These target groups are logically set, without any shortage. They follow their age, except when it comes to teachers and teachers and disabled people, of course you can also find representatives of this group among school-bound children, including students, including the active population, etc. However, we have highlighted them specifically in order to receive the special concerns of this law and I think that is the case. In short, with these groups, I think there is nothing wrong with them, covering practically the entire population, and this does not mean that all measures will apply to all groups. That is why we have so precisely defined these groups that we can then very much target, target these groups with measures that are appropriate or necessary in accordance with their specific needs. That is why we have worked hard and for a long time coordinated this set of target groups. Since we wanted to end up with these measures, which we will be taking on the basis of the plan, being as targeted as possible, as economic as you mentioned, this is also one of the leaders of this law. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Just because someone uses Facebook doesn't mean they have basic digital skills. And when we quoted at the outset, we talked about basic digital skills, not any use of the Internet. We do know, however, that, by definition of the European Commission and other organisations of basic digital skills, they cover significantly more than just, I don't know, on Facebook or on Instagram. In short, when it comes to basic digital skills, almost half of the adult population does not have them alone, but this proportion is even worse when it comes to over 55 years of age and that is why we decided that we would be particularly helpful to this group over 55 this year. As far as the digitisation of public administration is concerned. I agree with you. Large steps have been taken, but they are not sufficient. The digital certificate system is too complicated for the majority of the population. I must say that I myself have had considerable problems with him, I believe that I am not alone, and I am happy that with the new biometric IDs, this problem can also be said to have begun to resolve itself. However, in order to allow as many people as possible access to the administrative unit or administrative matters through new technologies, we also presented a project two weeks ago on a virtual administrative window that will allow citizens to regulate a whole range of matters with administrative units through a secure audiovisual link. However, as far as the scales themselves are concerned, let me say that it is not unusual that the methodology in such a propulsive area and digitisation is changing, that is perfectly logical. It is one of the fastest growing industries or phenomena in our society, so adapting the methodology is quite common. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u91	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, because I didn't say that using Facebook was a digital skill. I was just talking about data how many people use the Internet, and I illustrated it with this, and that some of the data here doesn't go together, because Facebook also works on the Internet. I was talking about the percentage of use of Facebook, not that when people use Facebook, but I don't know how digitally they are. As far as the digital certificate is concerned. I fully agree with you that the acquisition itself is not as complicated as it is, of course, then it is necessary to have quite a bit of knowledge if you want to put it on a computer or a phone, and that is why in the previous Government we have initiated this process, which is, I think, it has cost one decade because the ministry has not been able to harmonise how to get this digital certificate on the ID card as well. We have done this technically and legally, but it is, of course, a year later, and we have warned that when we passed this law here all year long it has stopped, then in drawers so that people could practically use it for a year, but for me it has not happened for unknown reasons, although it has been all coordinated between the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs for a long time. Technically, too, the law has already been written, but it has all stood up, and speaking of missed opportunities, what we have missed in this area over the past two years is one of the original sins, because, of course, this proportion of the use of the country's services along this digital route could have increased significantly in this time frame if this government were timely and not delayed.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon. It is undeniable that today we are considering the law that this society needs, but it is also undeniable that it is probably a tool by which the Government is trying to obtain as many votes as possible in the upcoming elections, and this is also a legitimate exercise and, in fact, this definition, to deal with under urgent procedure, is probably one more proof that it is one of the pre-election animations of the people on the other hand, and we will only be able to prove it during the campaign, when we see how they will attach this order to the achievement of this digital voucher, because we hope that it will be confirmed today. It is also true that today's labour market really requires one special digital knowledge or skills that can be harnessed by new knowledge, and unfortunately we have also found horribly that the OECD places us in less capable nations in this regard not only after digital skills but also after investments in adult education, and that is something that we must all do together to make this matter change. If we remember this river that is growing from small I think it is okay that, as an introduction to the explanation of the amendment that we have submitted to the SAB, it is necessary to do as much as possible in order for the youngest generation to become digitally qualified and also have technological possibilities or this hardware part ensured that they can buy or combine more of these vouchers and buy something they need for the normal digital operation and participation of learning or some other education, so we have not seen the real reason why one of the schooling generations of primary schoolchildren is missed. In fact, it is clear that they have been released because they will not contribute to the vote. In some ways everyone is entitled to help, but this time they have fallen under the basic plan of the law, because we assume they are not so important to the government's fine-tuning to the elective body, which we rightly believe is also partly in this law. However, I must say that we have been alerting and advocating in the SAB throughout the epidemic to ensure adequate conditions for education and we have just tried to introduce amendments with similar content in several PKP packages, but in light of this we have never been heard or understood not only today, when the bell-ringing bells before the elections are tense but now one more thing is heard. But it's strange that we put the same amendment into the SAB and then into the coalition. I don't understand why our first investment wasn't good enough why he could have gone another one, but then again, once he does, it won't be so important. It is important, however, to ensure that primary school students in the third triad of primary school are also justified in this voucher, because they will also develop more interest or have the opportunity to develop a better interest in the professions of the future and, of course, the society of the future, in which they will surely be more cut off if they are previously computerised. We had a long-distance learning problem. This has sometimes also been due to these “harware” deficiencies at home, especially in children who have shared with their brothers and sisters, for example, one or more computers, and therefore it seems appropriate for me to take at least one step forward to prevent one such situation from being educated enough just because they do not have enough machines if I banalize it at home. At the same time, I would like to mention that I very much miss the Government's more specific concern for digitisation when we look at the territory of Slovenia, for this immediate elimination of the online indiscretion presses. There are many such cases in the countryside, and I know something is coming up, but, here, if we're talking about what we've achieved and what's going to happen, it's a shame that this wasn't achieved before. I would also like to mention that this law has also gone through a sieve of advocates of the principle of equality, which has found that this law is far from ideal, because it could be more appropriate to take into account the specific needs of groups of people who are disadvantaged when it comes to integrating into the information society and here referring to people with disabilities, with poorer wealth, less educated people, older, poorer and poorer women in rural areas, as one of the most vulnerable and most overlooked groups. But, as we say, we're in the SAB to support this marriage, of course. At the same time, we are certainly pleased to see from the content that coalition colleagues have put forward, that this is the same purpose, and that every last, third triad of elementary schoolchildren and their families will allow us to still get what others have listed in our society and to see that the country has not forgotten them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings from the Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! I will only allow myself two comments, before I make a few sentences on the generality of this article of the amendment. Since she's from the side, she's respected. [[?]] , both colleagues, it has been said, for the first time, as regards biometric personal documents, how this matter has been carried out indefinitely and in years, and as regards the fact that some passivity of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as of the Ministry of Public Administration, I am somehow obliged to tell the public that this claim, which has been made, is simply not true. The fact is that when the activity was to issue these so-called biometric documents in the Republic of Slovenia, in public and also here, in this National Assembly, on the parent committees, a campaign was launched to simply chip the holders of personal documents by issuing such personal documents. Let's be honest here. It is said that there was no preference for going forward with the time of digital age and equipment, because these identity cards, which we finally accepted and will now, in May, I think they will also become effective, are actually intended for more purpose, both for health care and so-called Signatories of SIGOV-CA. Another important element in stopping this was, in fact, from an information officer who had a lot of concerns about the protection of personal data, and this is the reality. In the end, we are glad to have taken this matter away. As for the proposal, I am pleased that this proposal was also on the parental committee and that, somehow, we are now surprised to have, both on the side of the coalition and on the side of their parliamentary group, an identical amendment to this article, because, on Friday on the parent committee, the SAB Group has tabled this article in particular for this group of all elementary schoolchildren. All of them. From first grade to ninth grade. It is logical, however, that after some rational reason and decisions have taken place. So much, I apologize, given that there are many political debates in which there is a picture that is not literally true. As far as this Article 27 is concerned and the law itself. Initially, very clear and decisive. The Republic of Slovenia needs this law. This law is certainly not hypocritical, but it is the basis for promoting digital inclusion, and it literally becomes the obligation of each executive branch of government. I must admit that this needs to be stressed, in particular, regardless of who or which coalition is on the executive branch of power. I am very much in the position, and I am also convinced by the debate that we agree that digitalisation processes should or should have been intense years ago, if not decades ago, but this has not happened. That is why I firmly believe that it is now time for us to be actively involved in this so-called digital description and all that is involved in it. And now only if I touch and stick to the Chairman's recommendation, the amendment to Article 27. The amendment of the coalition, also endorsed by the Government, is in the position that it is still needed, in this case, because it defines, defines, extends, however, we can say, a circle of beneficiaries entitled to a digital voucher, it is said, for a group of the third triad of elementary school children and the fact that this is a necessary step in the right direction, because the digital transformation associated with this always begins with the so-called youth group or so-called young population and primary school students from the seventh, eighth and ninth classes of primary school are those who really need it and all. And it is necessary to ensure this involvement in these objectives, which are very clearly enshrined in this law. I am certainly putting first the so-called competence for the use of digital competences. That is why I can say that I am pleased that the coalition has also listened to the initiative on Friday by the opposition parliamentary group and that, literally, both the coalition and the referential minister together with the Government, on the basis of the debate on this parental committee, it is somehow in the best interests of young primary schoolchildren that this amendment has been prepared by Article 27. At this point, I would like to conclude because I do not want to discuss the need for this law, but I am sure that I am pleased that the Republic of Slovenia has finally moved significantly in the field of digitisation of society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u97	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u98	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. So the honourable colleague Verbič said why this amendment came to the 27th Article. I look forward to including the school-binding children of the last triad among the beneficiaries of this voucher 22. But I would like to create something else that we have not heard here today. Previously, I think colleague Udovč talked about the context of this educational process. This made me happy because we have an IZUM in Maribor, as you all know. We met there with the Minister, respected by Andrijanik, about ten days ago, when the partnership agreement on artificial intelligence was signed and I was also there, and then some conversations were also held with the director of the IZUM Bosniak, among others, and he made me very happy when he said that the IZUM was already being prepared or carried out in cooperation with the digital ministry as well as with the Ministry of Education of the so-called e-school bag project. Why is that important? Simply for this reason, because in the spirit of the time in which we are, this digital empowerment is also our youngest here, of course, more than desirable on the other hand, and literally these difficult school bags blame their spines literally and now in a society where we are digital society, that once again it is not possible to actually click or get the contents of textbooks, I think it is more than essential. Dr. Pesek of the Ministry of Education is also very important to this company. This will be a very striking issue for the whole of Slovenia, saying that through some online application, our students, as well as high school students, will be able to access all the textbooks which are, of course, prescribed by the Ministry of Education, I think will be extremely crucial by the year 2023 by autumn. Now there will be publishers, publishers of these textbooks, these school funds, which are in every primary school and high school and, of course, this informational backbone, to say that it will take place through the Cobiss information system. Here I really stress the symbiosis of all these stakeholders I think again in 2022, when we live this is of strategic importance for our country and for our youngest. I'll give you one example of how advanced these young people really are. My nephew Edward Kaloh, type in Google Edward Kaloh at the age of six, shares more urban numbers, and at the age of six, he also programmes because look at YouTube, he has no idea how many hits. It is based on these people that our future is based on, so here is a great thanks to the pro-active very articulated Minister Andrijani, who can present very well the proposals for marriage. I believe that someone on the other hand may not understand it, because he would really say one of those in the entire successful crew of this government that really answers all the questions maybe even some very deliberate instigation, but here respected colleagues from the opposition this law on digital inclusion is not a field on which I would not know what it was called a coalition was gathering political points before the elections, but it is indeed something urgent. Now, there will be no misunderstanding when I mentioned 2023 in the year for this school e-bag as regards these digital vouchers for the purchase of computer equipment will be distributed before the start of this school year in the autumn and, as far as I know, there is already €31 million in the budget for these activities. It is said to be a very well-written law, a very useful law also financially valued so that the distinguished minister and the crew you are here today in the National Assembly have the support of me as a Member and also of all the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u99	Thank you, too. The replica of Matthew the Widow. No, no, no. Okay. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. We've got three applications. The first one gets the word "Boštjan Koražija." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I would like to draw attention here to one matter that has been openly ignored before in the debate. And that is that these days, government organisations or this network for an inclusive information society have also warned us Members with this negative opinion. [[Incomprehensible]] Now I don't know, I don't know, it's very likely that you got it, or you got it as a notice, or as an additional matter, and it pointed to one side. In fact, I don't know why you actually ignored these non-governmental organisations that are actually dealing with the information society itself, but with digitisation and with these matters and in fact this network has warned you from the beginning that this law is substantively flawed. [[Incomprehensible]] And then, of course, she gave you this negative opinion. And I'm going to go a little bit to the point where what's wrong with this law is what's wrong with this NGO these days. [[Incomprehensible]] First, in fact, the target groups are not sufficiently defined in Article 9. This has already been mentioned many times in the debate, by people with disabilities or by this social group. The next option is to not involve the public in the preparation of a digital inclusion plan and policy-making in Articles 11 and 16. It is said, as has already been said or said, that we have already gotten used to this mandate, even in this second part, that I do not know why it is being excluded or why it is being excluded, I will say, this professional public, these NGOs, who have knowledge of how experts in their field and who are also very generously trying to help or advise in such a case, that the law would be better or that it would also be more socially just and also more solidarity. The third point they pointed out was the non-conformity of the digital and green transition. Indeed, this law should follow to a greater extent the principle of consistency between the digital and green transitions. And that's the thing, I'm going to do it just to buy newer ones, say new technologies or new devices, but it's not going to be designed to fix them, which could also contribute to a smaller carbon footprint, and then even the spare parts of computer equipment won't be able to buy with this voucher, as I was presented with. So I don't know, I think it's worth thinking about, too, when this law is still being processed, or just correcting, to take account of these NGOs that want and want to help, and they're also heart-to-heart, so they know what they're for or what they're for. This lack of harmonisation of the bill is then again a national content network of non-governmental organisations in the field of digital transformation. We're back on the same page. So, I'm going to say, we're kind of spinning around in some kind of Rondo, and whenever there's a non-governmental or non-governmental situation, unfortunately in this case, they've also been excluded from the writing process or from the creation of this law. Moreover, what Mr Medved mentioned earlier about these wrong starting points in the assessment of the state of play for the drafting of the bill when he spoke about the Desi index, that in fact Slovenia has not made progress, which is not in fact true. It is said that there have been quite a number of errors in citing the result in the explanation of this law. And I would like to see, in future or earlier, better and more concretely, also to cooperate more properly with these NGOs or with NGOs that do have a lot of good proposals and, above all, well-intentioned proposals in store. That's it for now. Of course we will be in Levica, of course we are in favour of including this group of elementary school students or those last tiadas in this law in order to gain the opportunity of this digital voucher. It is true, however, what Member Trček said earlier, that there are also competences in pupils or even in primary school students, even as Mr Kaloh mentioned earlier, that one actually can do a lot of things over the last six years and actually program them. In this regard, too, it will be necessary to consider how to approach those who really want or really need to do so, both digital technology and everything that belongs to it. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u101	Thank you, too. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Minister for Digital Transformation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Well, first of all, let me say that this opinion does not refer to an official opinion of a network of NGOs for an inclusive information society, but only some organisations, namely, the most prominent stakeholders operating within this formal network, have distanced themselves from this opinion, whether it be the Union of Retired Persons of Slovenia, Simbazo or ultimately Beletrino. Allow me to answer all of these points. Firstly, as regards the preparation of a plan to promote digital inclusion, which was adopted every two years on the basis of an in-depth analysis of the digital inclusion of individual social groups. The professional public will, of course, be involved in the preparation of this plan, as it is actually impossible to carry out a digital inclusion analysis without consulting key social groups. So, we are absolutely not excluding anyone here, and given that this plan will be adopted by the Government in the final stage, there will also be a time for public hearing, during which all NGOs, as well as other organisations and individuals, will be able to come forward. So it is not absolutely true that anyone would be expelled in one way or another. On the contrary, the creation of this law has proved that we are as inclusive and democratic as possible. As it is said, over 20 different organisations participated in its preparation, giving special attention to organisations that represent the most vulnerable, whether disabled or older. The next observation was that this proposal should not be aligned with the green transition. On the basis of the comments made by various non-governmental organisations in the field of green transition, we have included in computer equipment that can be purchased with a digital voucher, including used or renewed equipment. Thus, this observation or this comment was taken absolutely into account. Let me say that we have taken into account more than two-thirds of all the comments that have come in the course of public hearing by all possible NGOs, as well as experts from various fields. Non-governmental organisations with public interest status should then be excluded from the development of the information society. That's absolutely not true. I believe there has been a misunderstanding or misreading of this law. These organisations are not excluded in any way or in any way. Then there is supposed to be a democratic deficit in the formation of this law. Of course, I will not comment on this, because, as we have said several times today, we have had an intense dialogue. Not only at the time of the drafting of this law, but also at the time of the public hearing. We have met with just every shareholder who has made his comment or comment during public hearing and have been commended by non-governmental organisations so that they have not yet experienced the inclusive process of law-making, and I consider this to be a special honour. Maybe another word or two about digital vouchers. Look, it's not something new, it's not an idea that would come before the elections. This proposal was adopted by the Strategic Council in June last year, and followed by intensive preparation of this law. As you can see, this voucher will not be cashable until June 15, which means it will come into effect for quite some time after the elections. I would therefore like to ask that this measure is not considered as a pre-election candy, but I would add that the main subject of this law is not a digital voucher, but the possibility of free courses for all key social groups. That's, I think, the lever through which we can make the biggest leap. It is clear, however, that without adequate computer equipment, this knowledge does not mean much. I think that these vouchers will come especially to older adults who will be able to translate this new knowledge of bankruptcy, which will be subsidised by the State, immediately into practice. In this way they will be able to save quite a bit of time, nerves and money, while also upgrading knowledge as soon as possible. In short, it is not a pre-election gesture, but a very thoughtful and long-planned action. As far as E-school materials are concerned. I fully agree, something has already been done in this area and I am pleased that we have also included in the law the possibility of a state subsidy for the purchase and use of such materials. Moreover, this law also opens up the possibility of further training teachers because we have seen during the pandemic that there is a serious manna in this area, and that certain teachers or lecturers need additional courses to use these modern methods and content with adjectives. So, again, it is a system law that gives a whole range of mechanisms at its disposal which will be applied precisely, but it will set out an each-time plan to promote digital inclusion. It was said that this plan would only be adopted every two years. Clearly, it's hard to make plans every two months. Only after one year or two do you see the effects of individual measures, and then you can adapt these measures to make them most effective in the target groups. In a way that is based on the principle of economics, we want to make sure that individual social groups or target groups are addressed as best possible by individual measures, which, as has already been identified several times today, are extremely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u103	Thank you, too. The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u104	Thank you very much for taking the floor. As I have already said, digital literacy needs our entire society, but before that we need to simplify all digital state portals and bring them closer to people. And since I don't have much time, I'm gonna try to twist my mind into a few sentences. I welcome the fact that the coalition has finally recognized the need for students of the 7th, 8th and 9th classes to be eligible for a digital voucher, but at the same time I warn that a large majority of the active population has been released, which also cannot afford to buy modern computer technology. Among them are citizens and citizens with a very low level of education who occupy poorly paid jobs and, in fact, you alone cannot afford to buy this technology that they will need. You can conclude for yourself that these citizens will borrow equipment from working organisations, but the issue of the safety of their personal data is emerging. And since time is really chasing me, all I want to stress is that we are introducing digital literacy into society and we are not introducing ten blind writing rings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u105	Thank you, too. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for the comment. I agree with you. When it comes to digital voucher 2022, we have decided to focus on those groups most in need of our support and assistance, but it is not said that we will not spread these groups in the coming years. And I think it's a good thing we're spreading them. By building on a stimulus plan, the basis of which will be clear information or facts on which we need the most common aid in the field. So this option leaves this law open, and I believe that the set of these groups, which will be eligible for digital vouchers, will continue to expand in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Franz Beznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in conclusion, I think that today's debates on the legal basis which I think is already relatively familiar but necessary and already points to some of the ambitions of this government, which wants to make a little more of the country we call our Slovenia. It is also digital literacy. This term may seem a little more attractive to me for people to understand, a lot of people who are watching this session, to understand what the government, the department and the National Assembly want to do from our country, especially to feel the time and place where we live and the urgency of it. Now I'm a nanzim of any kind. We say we can remember a lot of things over stories. I remember some first contact with two of my nieces, one studying at Harvard University in Boston in the second year of biochemistry, the other studying artificial intelligence in the Netherlands in the first year. What is the basic characteristic of them, who ended up as a student at the 2nd grade in Maribor, which is slightly more of a natural orientation, and of her or her colleagues, colleagues who were therefore included in one of the most elite universities in the postgraduate studies. The most interesting thing is that, in addition to some of the content that they have acquired, which is also excellent in Slovenia, the greatest disadvantage for many students to know when entering one of these universities is already relatively well programmed in some programming languages. This, see, not in the National Assembly or in the Ministry or in the school system, let's say that we now talk about basics, we have never heard it in high school. Now, Minister, you can also see that you've been abroad for quite some time, and you're one of the few people who even mentioned it when you started it, as far as I've been following you. So this is another way past this law, which shows some other literacy that we may have to introduce through the curriculum, perhaps at least most, or into certain secondary schools. And of course the elementary schools where we have to tell what entrepreneurship is, what is this basic digital literacy, like us, our generation had an alphabet and the first one we competed in 1983, 1984, and we didn't separate or right or left, especially was a game before whether you listen to Beatle or Rolling Stones, or my generation or you have a Commodore 64 home or you have a Spectrum, or you have a BASIC or Simon's BASIC. And these are the only real relevant games for me or in my world. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have spoken a great deal in this National Assembly in this mandate. Since 2012, I have been pointing out this bad statistics in particular, which also registers the nature of Slovenia's issues, the poor promotion of this. And that the Republic of Slovenia, if it wants a breakthrough moment, of course we need more attention in particular to the study of natural science. However, not only in studies, including in secondary schools, in secondary technical schools, but also in the context of a dual school system. Today, in this digital revolution or which has not actually produced any new invention, which is the characteristic of the first, second and third industrial revolution, is essentially the fourth one, which somehow integrates all these systems, which were invented mainly in the second, but also most in the third industrial revolution into complete physical and biological systems. This is the importance of this moment and time, and it is on this basis that we can begin with the basic development of smart cities, smart villages. Speaking of which, earlier in that ninth point of the amendment concerning disabled persons, I am also motivated to study bionics. Now we've got some minimum concession on Ptuj. We need to expand our bionics. Bionica has amazing potential just because of this in Slovenia, because we have an extremely good university center for the rehabilitation of disabled people, where we should connect bionica together. We can imagine that in a few years, just as we couldn't imagine some technological changes today, many people with disabilities, such as paraplegics, will be able to walk with special preparations that they are preparing, i.e. bionic prosthetics, extensions, where they could say, really mobile. Nor will society need any more obstacles, i.e. architectural obstacles, because bionics will make this possible. Even those who lack any extremity, the bionic prosthetics are now at an extremely high level. There is hope in this particular area. It's also a science that, I could say, is extremely humane. You know that in Slovenia, in medicine, together with the technology or departments of the Faculty of Maribor with 3D printers, we have once repaired, for example, in major traffic accidents, we have replaced part of the skull that was missing, it is part of the bone, skull and so on. Look, these are the professions of the future, on the one hand they're high-tech, they're human beings, and to help people with technology, I think that's the greatest thing you can achieve. I also sing the song of a profession you're looking forward to. See, in bionics, for example, there is also an example of a number of pumps operating in the nanotechnological field, children who have certain nervous diseases and skeletal systems, where unfortunately they also have extremely aggressive medications in a few years that are likely to destroy their liver, today, with special proton pumps, these drugs can be injected directly into the spinal part itself and, as a result, some, say, children could survive almost full life. So the technologies that are now in the world for Slovenia can also provide an extremely economic opportunity. It begins with literacy, of course, what the Minister started at the first point, then digitisation of public and state administrations, then digitisation of companies, but for this we need people who will choose more for technical professions at all levels of education. Of course, we also need social skills in the digital revolution, but with special specialties, as is the case at Stanford University, where sociologists do Ph.D.s from computer science and vice versa, so that then certain software solutions can be brought to a higher level. So at least in this area, China must be our target. In China, about 70 % of students study technical science or, above all, science. This must be our goal if we are to get ahead of our competition in Europe. We know Slovenia is dripping. The Czech Republic currently leads the Czech Republic, which is close to 50%. We cannot compete with Germany, which also lacks these professions. Germany has in its career a century or a hundred and fifty careers of top patents on which it can live. He has multinationals who can set up a new company in India every year. So he takes advantage of their potential, their engineering personnel and so on. Unfortunately, Slovenia does not currently have these large multinational companies. That is precisely why we must be a fast, fast learning society. The law, as you can see, is also social. In fact, it involves all people, regardless of their social status, to be digitally educated. This is also one of the meanings of this law. Maybe we're under-emphasizing him. And on the basis of this learning society and cooperative society, Slovenia can take important breakthroughs, just as I speak many times, of these digital revolutions. The train which they are taking is not French, a train which is not a German train, which will lead to an important platform in the future of the Republic of Slovenia. It's the Fourth Industrial Revolution train. And a train that will provide prosperity to Slovenia for many or most of the Slovenian population, which will make at least a few efforts. And it will also provide good pensions as well as a socially sustainable state. Slovenia with 1.6 workers per pensioner can say anything, we can promise anything as a politician, with such a structure of the economy that we currently have will no longer be provided by the social state in the coming years. This needs to be made clear. We need something really penetrating and cracking high tech technology. High tech technology provides green Slovenia on the other hand, provides the best social policy, ensures that we will also survive the following economic crises relatively, I could say, in a safe environment. We will no longer have to literally fear some economic crises and it also means some Slovenian self-esteem some new Slovenian self-esteem and, above all, trademarks under which the products will be made and Slovenia. We need this in the 21st century. Products with a brand made and Slovenia, which will be proud not only on earth even in space, so today the Minister thanks for all your friend. I may have been a bit more in politics than some have always made fun of themselves. They were constantly critical never presented anything here in Parliament. We presented a digital resolution. They made fun of each other. They never talked about green transformation they never said with which technology they would do anything out of the green transformation of Slovenia. On Friday, we will present one of my best documents, so what we can do with geothermia mainly in the eastern part, how we can accelerate the rise of energy with new wells to more than five, six thousand meters in Slovenia just what Vienna is doing now, what many cities do that potential. This has not been prepared by any non-governmental organization. I'm constantly willing to listen to anyone who knows more than I do, and the problem is that most NGOs I've listened to are less than me that's the biggest problem. I'm always ready to pick up the phone to go somewhere to a meeting, so that I can learn something to get a new idea, I'm always ready. But the problem is that someone in a non-governmental organization who has neither education nor competence nor any experience in Slovenia or abroad begins to talk about some digital transformation or, say, some green transformation begins in a way that would eliminate everything and what would shut it down. This is typical Slovenian very small township. This is a typical case of wine-growing pre-passenger mentality and this mentality; this mentality in the 21st century must be completed by dear colleagues and colleagues in the coming mandates. Whoever rules out in politics will eventually be ruled out. The new governments of the new coalition will be drawn on the basis of serious policies. Today we are talking about the first big step. We are talking about the special policy represented by the Minister for Digital Transformation, which is one of many innovations in Europe as well. Such ministries are talking about a policy that will be completely new and Slovenia needs exactly that type of ministry and also the continuation of this in future governments. [[Incomprehensible]] Dear Minister, I thank you for all your efforts, listening. They always throw their pollen under their feet, but in the end they win those who go through all those who have thick skin and have their own clear goal. Our clear goal, as I see it today, here on the left we have quite a few people approaching this new coalition, I would call it, if I'm a little political at the end. There are more and more of you, and I welcome that. I've never ruled out always being on the side where we were finally looking for common ground and not the matter on which we share. The law that is ahead of us with some minor corrections, which is something normal I hope will be adopted and I hope that we will take the first big step in this direction as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u109	Thank you very much too, Mr Member, although your debate in waves is very far from the amendment on the agenda and on which the debate is under way. I appeal to all of us to respect our Rules of Procedure and what it says. We are discussing the content of the agenda item. Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u110	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you very much for all the comments and encouraging words. The fact is, we cannot build a digital success story without digital technology experts. In this area, not only Slovenia is limping, but the whole of Europe, but the countries are different. Some are more advanced in this area, others are still a little behind. The fact is, we need a thorough ventilation of our school system. I myself am a great advocate for the introduction of the subject of computer science and computer science, in a renewed and updated form, as a compulsory separate subject in primary and secondary schools. These content are simply the universal language spoken by the whole world today, and they deserve special attention, especially when it comes to our youngest. Let me stress here that some of the most advanced European countries, whether in Estonia or Finland, have already introduced the basics of programming into pre-school education, rather than in primary and secondary schools. In short, until this systemic shift in our school system is made, we need to help ourselves with other measures, and that is why this bill is before you, which will allow young people of all ages free access to these advanced knowledge for the future, whether it is robotics, which has been mentioned many times today, artificial intelligence, programming or digital skills-based entrepreneurship. So we want to bring all these things to all young people, no matter where they live and no matter what the social status of their families is. This seems crucial to me, so we will also focus on these young people this year and, as we say, if the law is adopted today, we will go to these public calls as soon as possible, on the basis of which we will be able to grant subsidies to those educational organisations that will, of course, meet strict conditions and criteria, whether they are relevant references in this area, professional staff, computer equipment and appropriate premises. In short, we must no longer waste time, better late than never, but it would be even better if such a law were passed ten years ago or even 15 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u112	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Now, I've listened to what my colleague, Breznik, has said long and wide. Now, from his writing, one might even find that some who do not love the yellow-blue political parties have no idea.My dears, the “parlameter” has programmed some “gifts” and young ladies who are very good at programming. [[Incomprehensible]] So don't be insulting to people. Now, what bothers me in this debate today is that I must say that I am subjective here. It's an area that I've been working with for 30 years to somehow articulate, like the world started with this government or the establishment of this government service. Now, as far as programming is concerned, I went right to check the old language of Logo, that turtle and so on, this programming language was created before I was born in 1967. So Grimes used to put it there, somehow, as it were, today is an Internet fact. The Internet is, I think, how much, nine, one 10 months younger than me. I was born 3. 1. Officially, "arfa net" begins there, Vojka, you may as well know, late October 1969. So, do you know, a little bit of a feeling for, like, "precuratists" [[?]] , measure, somehow it doesn't hurt, and from what the Minister has said, from what Breznik has said, I come back to this, wait, why do we stop only in the third triad, if Mr. Minister himself says, at Scandinavians, the basics of programming are already being taught in the preschool age I don't know, I'm probably too logical for the current composition of Parliament. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u113	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 96th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.05. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 1536.) (The sitting resumed at 16.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-28-SDZ8-Izredna-96.ana.u114	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving to a vote, so I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of your voting devices. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Promotion of Digital Inclusion in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28 February, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 15 in particular. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 18 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 23. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 27 under number one. I would point out, however, that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SAB Group to this Article, under number two, has also been adopted, since it is already contained in the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 27, paragraph 1, was adopted, the amendment of the SAB Group to the same Article under number two has also been adopted, since it has already been adopted or covered by the amendment under number one. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and specifically Article 28. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 29 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 9, 15, 18, 23, 27, 28 and 29 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I see you don't. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am also informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 96th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Have a nice day!
