ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u1	Fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 93rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Your Honor! Before continuing, I would like to inform you that the President of the European Parliament, David Maria Sassoli, has recently passed away, a great European, advocate for the strengthening of European values, human dignity and the rule of law. We'll honor him with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Praise him! I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Marko Bandelli from 2 p.m. on, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Maša Kociper from 10 a.m. to 16 p.m., Franc Jurša, Blaž Pavlin, Jani Prednik, Just Bevk until 14 p.m., Dr. Franz Runczek until 11:30, Andrea Zabret from 12 o'clock on. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 93rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 11 January 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 93rd meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC ORDER LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 40 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Members of the coalition, together with the support of the Slovenian National Party, have tabled a proposal for amendments to the Public Procurement Act on procurement in Slovenian health. We are confident that the proposed amendments to the law, if adopted, will allow the price of medical devices and medical equipment to be reduced. Despite many corruption stories about overpaid medical materials in all these years, it has not been heard that the latter would be regulated by law and thus prevent further overpayments of medical material and medical equipment. Both Commissions of Inquiry, which have been set up so far in the National Assembly, have confirmed the multi-annual mismanagement of public finances in this area. In the Investigative Commission on Procurement and Management of Medical Equipment and Medical Material, we found that only those in one of Slovenia's hospitals were overpaid compared to the cheapest hospital by 75%. Since the current legislation clearly allows for such conduct, the interim report of the Parliamentary Commission has concluded with proposals for further amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which are to be adopted and precisely at these points of the Commission of Inquiry, which, by the way, have been confirmed without a vote against the meeting, this bill has been drafted, which, as a fundamental amendment, proposes to regulate the prices of medical devices and medical equipment for reference price systems. We believe that such a system of reference prices would lead to a reduction in the prices of medical devices and equipment on the Slovenian market. The proposed legislative changes tabled included their comments: the Medical Technology and Services Providers' Chamber, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and the Anti-Corruption Commission. On the basis of the comments received, I can point out in particular two: that the proposed amendments and additions are contrary to the European Directive and, secondly, that there is no methodology for calculating reference prices in the draft law. With regard to the comments proposed, I would like to say that we are rejecting the presumption that the proposed amendments would be contrary to European law. The European Union has so far adopted no directly binding regulation for the field of public procurement, but only an indirectly binding directive, which thus merely provides a framework guide for the national legislation to be laid down by the Member States themselves. It is true, however, that the practice of our country has so far been such that without adapting to national specifications and needs, the directives have only been attributed to national legislation. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, the negotiated procedure without prior publication will also be possible only if this is strictly necessary, as it will not be possible to order a certain article at the reference price or by legal derogation, namely to obtain goods up to 10% above a specified reference price. However, this arrangement avoids cartel negotiation, which has occurred in practice, as one of the witnesses on the investigative committee has confirmed, until now. Another substantive comment on the methodology for the calculation of reference prices, we consider that it cannot be formally justified. The law covers a series of articles which cannot provide for all elements of the price in advance. This is therefore a typical case where the law must refer to an appropriate implementing law, which is also prescribed by the amendment tabled. In accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, amendments have been prepared to take account of the nomotechnic guidelines of this opinion. We are happy to have the support of both the State Council and the professions of Dr Blaž Marljet. [[?]] , [[sign for the end of the debate]] which also addressed its statement of support for legal changes in writing to all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Today, after several years, we are making the first law and we are deciding on it to make overpayments in healthcare, so on behalf of both the applicants and on behalf of citizens and citizens, I ask for your support for the changes made. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u4	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! At its 62nd emergency meeting on 11 January this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement. Representative of the proposer, Ambassador Mag. In its opening statement, Carmen Furman pointed out the cash flow and the irregularities found in past business periods, which were also identified by investigative commissions in the National Assembly. It presented basic solutions, which focus mainly on the development of a reference price system, which would allow for the overall reduction of the prices of medical devices and rationalisation of the purchase of medical equipment on the Slovenian market at all levels. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service expressed some concerns, to which the representative of the proposer then also replied. In the debate, however, the opposition considered that the proposed proposal was contrary to one of the European directives and doubted that the system, as set out, would be effective in practice. On the other hand, the representatives of the post felt it was necessary to accept certain changes, as it was obvious that in the past there had been a large amount of money drained from the health system that should be used for treatment, and that it had obviously gone on the basis of inadequately designed and executed invitations to tender elsewhere. However, everyone agreed that in the past he had largely failed control and, of course, what should then have control in the final stage as a consequence when he found irregularities is due to judicial proceedings. At the end, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SNS and SNS to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, all with 11 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. Finally, he voted on the entire text and also voted with 11 votes in favour and 4 against. The amended bill is an integral part of the report and is submitted for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting. Today, we are deciding on a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, the main purpose of which is to ensure the proportionality of prices in the procurement of medical devices and medical equipment in the field of health. The bill provides price regulation for the purchase of medical devices and medical equipment with a system of reference prices. This would result in a reduction in the prices of medical equipment on the Slovenian market and a more transparent operation of public health institutions by equating purchase prices in public institutions at all levels. In practice, the call for proposals would always set a reference price to be established by the Central Registry Office following a review of the data obtained from the Slovenian hospitals and hospitals of the Member States of the European Union. If the Slovenian distributor applying for the invitation to tender exceeded this price by more than 10%, the buyer could immediately obtain this material on the European Union single market without additional administrative obstacles or invitations. Over the years, we have witnessed many corruption affairs in Slovenia about expensive overpaid medical devices and equipment. Something that the law that is before us today wants to end forever. In this way, the draft law has been strongly assisted by the apprehension and the starting point of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the field of sales and the purchase of vascular resistors and investigative committees on health procurement, which have confirmed the multi-annual non-economic and non-transparent treatment of public funds. In the Group of Members, we are particularly convinced that the content must come before the political interest, and we cannot accept the re-misleading of the groups of Members in the debates in which we have had the opportunity to hear words such as the legalisation of corruption. In doing so, I should quote part of one of the articles of the bill: "If the contracting authority finds that there is the same goods on the market at a lower price than that of the successful tenderer, he must inform the tenderer. Where the tenderer does not lower the prices of medical devices and medical equipment within 30 days of receipt of the notice of the contracting authority, it shall purchase them in the open market. This sentence alone leaves no doubt that the bill follows the objective of lowering the prices of medical devices and medical equipment and thus making the treatment of taxpayers more transparent and cost-effective. In particular, in the Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public procurement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Public procurement procedures establish property relations between the State and the market or the private sector. To meet the needs of the State and to perform the functions of the State. The state is supposed to act as efficiently and rationally as possible, so it is in theory. Because of the complexity of living situations, legislation cannot provide a standard for any legal situation, so it is all the more important to know the basic principles of public procurement, the principles of cost-effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency, the provision of competition between tenderers, transparency of public procurement, equal treatment of tenderers and proportionality. The understanding of public procurement is also important for contracting authorities because they are aware of the limitations of public access rights in relation to the objectives of public procurement. These must not be aimed at satisfying the personal benefits or benefits of individual groups, but must be geared towards meeting the public interest. On the other hand, the issue that arises when defining fundamental principles is of secondary importance. Whether these principles are equal between themselves or in a subordinate-superior relationship or are mutually exclusive or complementary and support the objectives of public procurement in the same direction. The proposed amendment to the Public Procurement Act further regulates the field of public procurement of medical equipment and medical devices. This is the part of the public procurement, which is highly contaminated by the predatoryness of bidders with customer serviceability, with respect for the form and use of hundreds of tricks to avoid meaning. Many incentives and overpayments are a practice for which there is no liability, not political or criminal responsibility. The draft law provides for the establishment of an office responsible for the central price record. This office will set reference prices. The aim of the implementation of the European Comparative Prices System is to prevent the long-term practice of Slovenian health institutions from being repeated in the future, whereby the same material of the same manufacturer is sold at significantly higher prices than in other comparable European countries, as well as to ensure that prices of the same material continue to vary significantly between Slovenian hospitals. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is appropriate to form an office within the existing staff of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Public Administration. The invitation to tender will always set a reference price to be established by the Office following a review of the data obtained from Slovenian hospitals and hospitals in the European Union. If the tenderer applying for the invitation to tender exceeds this price by more than 10 %, the buyer will be able to obtain this material immediately on the European Union single market without additional administrative obstacles or invitations to tender. The public procurement system of medical equipment and devices supports silent robbery through the method of preference of selected suppliers and forward staged public procurement. Now it's about changing it, trying to apply the standards of the civilized world. It is quite predictable that these standards disturb interested groups and, most importantly, local conspiracy theorists. At all costs, you search for hair in an egg, a standard set of enemies is regularly mentioned in order to ensure that nothing changes. The management of public procurement is, in fact, the area of the fight for power, not the management of the work that needs to be done. This perspective is fundamentally wrong. The need for better governance is a necessity but an unrelenting interference with established interests and habits. Members of the Desus Group are aware of this as an imperative, and we are putting in place an improvement in the effectiveness of public procurement procedures, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u10	Have a good day to all present in this hall. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already pointed out the issue covered by the law in question in 1997. Slovenia spends a lot of money on health care and we can boast of a pretty good health system, although the individual exceptions are unfortunately negative in particular. A good health system creates professional staff and accessibility to health services. Every year we train a new medical cadre, which is the product of the Slovenian educational system, but every good system also has mistakes. One of the biggest chronic problems in the healthcare system is, of course, public procurement. Years ago, Dr. Night and Dr. Antlje were already alerted to this problem by young doctors. However, people who are not involved in a variety of medical equipment procurement committees have sufficient knowledge and knowledge of the price of medical devices and medical equipment abroad. According to grave estimates, there is an unjustified outflow of half a billion euros at an annual level. Dr. Night and Dr. Ants have already proved that only when it comes to the purchase of vein support can it save at least EUR 2 million a year. With this money we could successfully solve the problem of financing long-term care in Slovenia, so money is enough a problem in laws and ethics involved in public procurement. In our view, this problem can be solved with the novel that we have before us, so we will also support it. The greater burden of this solution is borne by the crime detection authorities and law enforcement agencies. If the police and the prosecution had already done their mission in a qualitative manner today, they probably would not have had such a large budget outflow in public procurement in the healthcare system. The law also establishes a government office responsible for the central price record. The Office is expected to set a reference price on the basis of prices obtained from the analysis of data from Slovenian hospitals and hospitals of comparable EU Member States. The final price of the contract shall not exceed 10 per cent of the reference price. If the price of the tenderer exceeds the reference price by more than 10 per cent, the contracting authority of the medical device and medical equipment shall, by means of a negotiated procedure, purchase on the EU single market without prior publication. If the contracting authority finds that the same goods are subject to a lower assessment than the currently selected tenderer, it shall inform the tenderer. If the bidders do not lower prices in the 30th days, they may make the purchase in the open market. The contracting authority shall then report any purchases made to the government responsible for the central price record. If there are deviations between the price offered and the reference price, the Authority shall inform the European Commission of this to the manufacturer. The law is about ensuring the sustainability of public spending and reducing budgetary expenditure, as well as transparency and appropriate comparability of procurement, which is necessary for the efficient use of public funds in short, we will get good materials at appropriate prices. We believe that one of the better solutions would be to legislate mandatory joint procurement of medical equipment and supplies for both the primary, secondary and tertiary levels for the whole country. Such material would be distributed according to the needs of an individual health institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u12	In the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that in Slovenian public health there has been everything since independence and no matter who is in power too much of an affair, an affair in the procurement of medical equipment and devices, where overpayments occur, and the non-economic treatment of public money also leads to corruption. Last year, because of medical corruption, the first group of accused doctors were found guilty of receiving or giving illicit gifts. Although the judgment is not yet binding. In the National Assembly, the procurement of medical and technical devices was investigated by two investigative commissions. The National Assembly took note of the reports of the two investigative commissions and also confirmed the findings that untransparent, non-economic and also corrupt behaviour was taking place in the purchase of medical equipment and supplies. However, we cannot overlook the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service and other stakeholders about the lack of calculation methodology or the structure of the reference price and the fact that the proposed amendments and additions are contrary to the umbrella European directive in this area. We are surprised by the absence of the Government's opinion and the fact that none of the competent ministries of public administration or health have participated in the legislative process with proposals or amendments to remedy these shortcomings. On the target, we also consider the Commission's warning to prevent corruption, which has been hampered by the proposed provision whereby the contracting authority may, if the price of the tenderer exceeds the reference price by more than 10%, obtain medical devices and medical equipment by means of a negotiated procedure without prior publication. Why? Given that there is a minimum transparency in the procurement process and their concern is that this increases corruption risks on the ground. This procedure also does not constitute a guarantee for the resolution of overpayments, as the contracting authority could freely choose any tenderer. Although these concerns are a surprise to the law’s proponents. In addition, in 2016 the Commission addressed the issue of procurement of medical devices in Slovenian hospitals at high prices due to the suspicion of corruption. In this case, the conclusions on the individual case were drawn and the Commission also adopted recommendations on the implementation of the procurement of multinational medical devices in public health establishments through intermediaries. And there is no such amendment to the Public Procurement Act in these recommendations, but there are other measures that are not required by law at all. This year, a disintegrated working group aimed at drafting amendments to public procurement, whose work ended after three months of protesting the withdrawal of members of a group of doctors acting under the name Health Care.si, justified its decision by not wanting to bear responsibility for the law that would preserve the current situation, which is bad for both patients and the public health treasury. Fair enough. Their basic proposals for solutions were the design of reference prices for medical devices and electronic auctions. In view of the fact that the law does not contain the other elements proposed, but only the reference prices and that this element has also been included in the interim report of one of the Commissions of Inquiry and given the time dimension of the introduction of the law, we cannot get rid of the feeling that this law is primarily the public image of the SDS Head of this Commission. If, at the same time, we see photographs of associations between the President of the Government and persons associated with major health providers or health-care providers themselves, this fact is even more eclectic. Six years earlier, these same actors had discovered and persecuted corruption in health care. In all of these concerns, we cannot support the bill in the parliamentary group, but we will not oppose it because in some part it represents some movement.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u14	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Act on the procurement of medical equipment and supplies. We believe that the proposed law is in fact a necessary response to what has been happening in Slovenian public health in recent years in the field of public procurement. In view of all media affairs, since the purchase of operating tables in UKC Ljubljana, the veneers, the gold rods, which have also been violently reflected in the public, today no one can turn a blind eye to the serious problem of systemic corruption in Slovenia, which is paid mainly by our taxpayers due to overpaid medical equipment and materials. Amendments to the law to which we are co-signers are therefore essentially following the objective, this is a reduction in the prices of medical devices and medical equipment. In this way, more than 100 million euros could be saved in Slovenian health care at the annual level, which could be earmarked for the treatment of patients. The amendment to the Public Procurement Act on health procurement therefore proposes regulating the prices of medical devices and medical equipment by establishing a system of reference prices in relation to comparable prices of the same material in other Member States of the European Union. In this way, the long-standing practice of Slovenian hospitals would be prevented in the future, in order to ensure that the same material of the same manufacturer is sold at substantial higher prices than in other comparable European countries, as well as that the prices of the same material between Slovenian hospitals continue to vary significantly. At the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the National Assembly has so far set up the only Commission of Inquiry in the field of health care, namely the Commission of Inquiry under the leadership of Mrs Jelka Godec, who has identified abuses in the area of the purchase of vein support in the previous mandate, and the Commission of Inquiry in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material, which is still in operation. Both Commissions of Inquiry have only confirmed the multi-annual non-economic and non-transparent treatment of public finances in this area. Today's legislative changes are thus based on the concrete findings of investigative commissions, which are the result of public procurement in Slovenian hospitals. This law takes the first important step towards eradicating the longstanding practice of public procurement in Slovenian health and thus prevents further overpayments of health material. To make changes in this direction necessary, we were obviously not long ago in agreement both with the coalition and with the opposition. The interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, led by me, was confirmed without a vote in the Parliament's July plenary session, which contained in fact the amendments to the legislation tabled and today addressed. In view of this fact, today, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to make decisions on the content of the bill in the Member States not to be dominated by political consciousness, but rather by awareness of responsible and economic treatment of public tax money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will therefore support the proposal for a law with this purpose, as has already been said, as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! We see in the LMŠ as one of the important challenges in regulating the health situation, the provision of normal European prices for medical equipment and devices. It also leads to this by setting reference prices on the basis of comparisons with prices in other European countries. Last but not least, we have also written this in the client programme in the LMŠ, stressing the need to ensure the full transparency of procurement at the same time. However, in the LMŠ we are also essentially advocating the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer, the lowest price cannot and cannot be the only criterion. If we are to pursue this in the procurement of medical equipment and devices, it is necessary to first develop standards and standards for the procurement of goods and services in health care for more than 33,000 products. That's a lot of work. Is this going to be done by the Price Records Office? I doubt it. It is not clear how this office is supposed to work, but if the proposal states that the establishment will have no budgetary implications. And you're setting up a government office after you shut down a public procurement agency 10 years ago. One year it worked, apparently too independent, but you terminated it in the then government of Janez Janša by explaining that it works very well, but it is a matter of rationalisation. Of course, the government office will be confidently independent, and this experience is now being taught. But with this you're not interested in the law, your motive is beating your chest, we've arranged public procurement in health. Whether this is feasible in practice, let those who come after you do so — and we will. As we know that the calculation of the estimated value must take into account all the costs associated with the subject matter of the contract and that the naked price cannot be defined as the only criterion for the award of the contract and this is not a reference price. However, there is no methodology for determining the reference price. The illusion is, if you think that the supplier will offer the product at a price that you found somewhere in Germany. And you are also aware of this, so you have introduced into the law that is extremely controversial, which leads us to worry that the law poses even more markedly corruption risks. In other words, if the offerer’s price exceeds the reference price by more than 10 %, the contracting authority will go for free purchase after the negotiated procedure without prior publication. Such an idea of a reference price will lead the tenderers to go through it. And the invitation to tender will fall, and then the agreement will follow right along or there will be a bidder waiting for it, already selected, and the call will only mask the continuation of the agreed economy. And of course it will mean a higher price instead of a lower price in the end. And that's not how it works. This means bartering outside all frameworks, outside the legal framework. And if I quote the findings of the Court of Auditors from 10 years ago: “In health there is a special relationship between suppliers and doctors. This is why such routing overpayments are taking place." We believe in the LMŠ that with the solutions you are offering, we will not eliminate this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Proposals for a new Public Procurement Act have stated that the proposed solutions are aimed at effectively ensuring the correct and dwindling use of public funds. The adoption of this law will prevent negative effects on public funds of public health institutions at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. And the basic purpose of the law is to ensure the proportionality of prices in the procurement of medical devices and medical equipment in the field of health. On Tuesday's working committee, the proposed solutions did not depart from the current regime, but because of corrupt practices and overpayments in health procurement, they were more consistent in ensuring that the principles in the field of public procurement were followed and that a reference price would be set for the tender, which would be formally obtained by the newly established office responsible for the central price record established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the call for proposals would always set a reference price which would be developed by the Office on the basis of the data obtained from the Slovenian hospitals and hospitals of the Member States of the European Union. If the Slovenian tenderer applying for the invitation to tender exceeded this reference price by more than 10 %, the contracting authority could immediately obtain medical devices and medical equipment without prior publication on the European Union single market without additional administrative obstacles or invitations to tender. However, the contracting authority will have to immediately inform the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia informing the European Commission of the possible price imbalance between the price offered and the reference price. The contracting authority shall also inform the manufacturer accordingly. The applicant considers that the proposed solutions will have an impact on the reduction in the prices of medical devices and medical equipment on the Slovenian market. It will enable the matching of purchase prices in all Slovenian health institutions operating in the public health network. Dearly respected, we have examined the proposed amendment of the law in detail, as well as the Commission's opinions and warnings on the prevention of corruption, the Chamber of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Chamber of Providers of Medical Technology and Services, and, last but not least, the opinion and warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. On the basis of all these opinions, we have assessed that the amendments to the proposed amendment cannot be corrected. It is not possible to correct itself in order to prevent major risks for additional corrupt actions and even more public money outflows into private pockets, and proposers with amendments, but only to correct administrative errors, while the content comments by the SPS did not even try to regulate. Respectable candidates for the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, you have therefore overlooked that the Public Procurement Directive lays down detailed and binding rules. [[?]] the Member State must not otherwise regulate and therefore the proposed amendment to the law in several places is contrary to Directive 2014/24/EU, which practically all rules are mandatory for all Member States. However, mandatory rules are not mandatory only when the objectives to be achieved or left to a Member State are set [[?]] national legislation. The Directive lays down mandatory rules which States must not otherwise regulate. The proposed amendment to the law is also contrary to the basic rules of public procurement and contract law and, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, the application of the law of contracting entities would expose damages to liability and, in a few words, the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption, and I quote, “is a proposal to regulate cities in unclear, inaccurate and non-coherent terms, given the existing law governing public procurement, which creates a risk of corruption and conduct contrary to expected integrity.” (The end of the quote.) [[sign for the end of the debate]] And let me also point out that the Government, under the Public Procurement Act, adopted 3B, adopted at the 24th regular meeting of the National Assembly of 13. Seven. 2021 stated that the OECD classified Slovenia as a country with good and transparent legislation. And if I finish, according to the OECD assessment, we're already doing this on paper. We are lacking in improving the implementation of the law on its implementation, [[sign for the end of the debate]] including in the area of procurement of medical devices and medical equipment in the field of health, as the Social Democrats have been warned many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! In order for public procurement in health to be regulated by a party whose mandate was precisely marked by the suspicion of corruption in the acquisition of protective equipment, the irony of the first type is the irony. From the lost trucks, to the wrong protective masks, to the rest fans, to Jelka Godec, who regulated the purchases at the Ministry of Health, she was not even employed there. As an opposition party, the SDS has always made great efforts to point out the link between corruption in Slovenian health and the deep state. Jelka Godec has made this a career. She investigated her vitals, led the investigator on child cardiology and the purchase of medical materials, and interrupted her crusade when Janševa Vlada was formed and dropped off at the Ministry of Health, and one of her first projects was the editing of the deal for Geneplanet fans, who earned EUR 8 million fat, for inappropriate fans. On Necensurirano.si was then written down, I quote: “The document proves that the ministry was run domestic during the first week of the Janša government. The main word was Jelka Godec. Although there was never any formal function there, her name and telephone number were on the list of State Secretaries sent by the Government to the field. As an MP, she had an office at the Ministry with a name on the door.” However, we agree with the proposers. There is a lot wrong with procurement in Slovenian healthcare, but this will not be addressed by the proposed system of reference prices, which, in the case of the price of the tenderer, exceeds the reference price by 10 per cent, allows the contracting authority to carry out the tender after the negotiated procedure without prior publication on the European Union single market. In a least transparent manner, therefore, the way in which existing legislation allows only exceptionally. The KPC has clearly stated that such a procedure constitutes, I state, a corruption risk for arbitral decision-making, since the contracting authority could freely choose any tenderer, the end of the line, which is contrary to the EU Public Procurement Directive. A negative opinion on this proposal was also expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Association of Health Institutions and the Chamber of Medical Technology and Services Providers. But as usual, the coalition roller does not care about any opinion other than theirs. The second paragraph of Article 47a is the most controversial, allowing the contracting authority to carry out negotiated procedures without prior publication with potential other tenderers and not only with existing ones, which is in total contravention of public procurement legislation. What else is this as a high corruption risk to the arbitral decision on the award of the contracting authority. They also did not explain why a new body would be set up to keep price records in the area. The Central Price Record may be maintained by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Public Administration through the Public Procurement Directorate, which is already carrying out joint public procurement. The joint procurement project carried out in health care between 2014 and 2019 is clear evidence that the joint procurement is possible and cheaper and that we do not need a new law, only the existing one needs to be implemented in this spirit. In as many as 79% of cases, the contracting authority has reached a higher discount than the hospitals. For 647 out of 819 product sets. In Levica, as the only effective solution, we see in the establishment of a state agency that, without intermediaries, would directly purchase high-value medical equipment for all hospitals together, which would cost us prices and save us the costs of the margins to be paid by the delivery service suppliers Dimnik and Marčič. That way, once and for all, we would cut down the exploitative hunters of various intermediaries and profiteers, and the agency's profits would go back to the health system. In Levika, a proposal that legalises an existing bad practice that is sloppy, incomplete and that opens the door wide to various non-transparent machinations, and with this high corruption risk in the public procurement of medical equipment, we cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The goal of New Slovenia is quality public health, which is accessible to all under the same conditions. We also wish that the health care contributions we pay to the healthcare sector are used as effectively as possible for the payment of health services and medical supplies and equipment. We all know stories of overpaid venous braces that have not yet been received by a court epilogue, and a corruption affair in the field of orthopaedics, where, after many years this year, the first group of defendants was found guilty of accepting or giving illicit gifts. The law is not ideal, but it is a necessary step in the right direction, is also attached by Dr Blaž Antavlje, who first exposed corruption in the procurement of medical material. According to Dr. Antljet, today's proposal is an urgent response to everything that has happened in Slovenian health in the 1930s. It is the first important step towards eradicating corruption in health care. The problem of the current public procurement system in health is the issue of poor supervision. Corruption is unfortunately already embedded in the system at various points. The method of ordering and financing in health care is, in itself, a certain risk. The problem is that one and the same companies supply media devices and fully control the market and public procurement. Thus, healthy competition cannot be created to exclude high margin providers and to contribute to the rational use of funds from the common health treasury. Every month, we make payments for compulsory health insurance, so we, citizens, should be interested in how this money is spent effectively. If less money is spent on medical material, it will be left for the welfare of a person in health care. We will be able to shorten the waiting species without allocating additional budget money into this health treasury. The bill therefore provides a solution to the public procurement of medical equipment and devices so that the taxpayer’s money will be spent as rationally as possible. The law provides that public procurement for medical devices and medical equipment shall be subject to reference prices established by the new Government Office for Central Price Record. When setting reference prices, prices shall be taken into account in comparable EU Member States. If the Slovenian distributor applying for the invitation to tender exceeds the reference price by more than 10 %, the contracting authority may purchase medical devices or medical equipment following the negotiation procedure directly on the EU single market. If, during the implementation of the contract already concluded, the contracting authority finds that it is possible to order the same goods on the market at a lower price than at that time, the successful tenderer shall inform the tenderer. This must lower the appropriate price within 30 days, otherwise the contracting authority may purchase the medical device or equipment on the open market. The Health Coalition Treaty is also clear in the work on curbing corruption. In New Slovenia, we have signed it that by establishing a system of European comparable prices, we will increase transparency over procurement and better control and will fight the use of resources from the Common Health Malha. This is exactly what the proposal for a new law on public procurement is doing. We Christian Democrats strive for effective, quality and affordable health care for all. Today's proposal is one of the steps towards achieving it. However, we are aware that there will be a number of other changes in the health sector in order for the patient to really be at the centre and to eradicate corruption in health care. Therefore, today is our moral duty and the time to support this law and thus show that the struggle of Dr. Antljet and Dr. Night and others has not been in vain and that this is the beginning of the end of the mafia methods used by some suppliers at the expense of all of us taxpayers. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on public procurement.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u24	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The issue of transparency of public procurement, particularly in the field of procurement in health care, is often the subject of debate. After ordering medical devices and medical equipment, there have been irregularities and bad practices detected for many years. In doing so, let me remind you how expensive we have paid the operating tables, the ventricles, and for several years the KPC and the Court of Auditors have been alerting the infringements. The proposers of this novelty are confident that the proposed regulation with the reference price system will help to reduce the prices of medical devices and medical equipment. This will ensure a more cost-effective treatment of tax money. In the SAB, we recognise that the purpose of the applicants is good, but the proposal is largely under-allocated. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it is unclear and incomplete even to the extent that it is not to be supported from a legal point of view. She also made her comments on the proposal to the KPC, which in her opinion warned that the proposed solutions would create additional risks to corruption. Despite the amendments adopted, the bill still contains too many substantive shortcomings. On the one hand, medical devices and medical equipment that will be subject to such public procurement are not sufficiently defined and the key definition of the concept of the reference price introduced by the proposal is also lacking. It is described only on a flat-rate basis, i.e. the price determined by the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for the central price record. The criteria on which the reference price will be calculated are not recorded, nor is it specified what will be taken into account in the calculation of the estimated value. In several places, solutions are proposed in contravention of the European Public Procurement Directive, which constitutes a fundamental legal act in the field of public procurement. Contrary to the Directive, there is thus a part of the proposal concerning the extended possibility of applying the negotiated procedure without prior publication. Such a procedure constitutes a non-transparent procurement procedure and is therefore permitted only in exceptional circumstances by the Directive because of adverse effects. It also follows from the Court of Auditors’ findings that one of the more frequent infringements is justly unjustified to apply the negotiated procedure without prior publication. Therefore, in the SAB, we are really concerned that the proposal opens the door wide to the application of this procedure beyond the provisions of the Directive and the provisions of the law. In the SAB we advocate transparent and controlled spending of tax money flowing into health care. That is why last year, together with the opposition, we convened an urgent meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, where we discussed the issue of the procurement of medical devices and equipment. The Commission adopted a decision calling on the Government to prepare changes to the public procurement system. It is an extremely difficult professional matter, which is not, or is not, a member of or a member of the parliamentary groups, as a rule. The fact is, as I have already said, that the field of public procurement is complex and difficult matter, and we are therefore disappointed that the government or the competent ministry, in cooperation with experts, has not joined the preparation of the changes. Even more, she did not even give her own opinion on the subject. Such an attitude is sufficiently eloquent for the client of the SAB. In the SAB, we want changes and movements that will make the procurement system more transparent, while ensuring the efficient use of public money. However, today's proposal is seen as too substantively undefined and inconclusive, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Law on Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education in the context of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by Member Felice Žiža and Ferenc Horvath. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Felice Žiža.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u26	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. [[address in Italian]] So the indigenous and Hungarian national communities have in line with the Constitution and the legal acts are for the first time to education and education in the mother tongue and the right to design and develop it. The education and education of indigenous national communities is an integral part of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia. This is carried out on the basis of sub-legislative acts and because of known historical circumstances in the national mixed areas of the municipalities where indigenous national communities live and are developed and implemented in two framework models. The Italian National Community takes place in Italian and Slovenian is the language of the environment. In Hungary, however, the national community takes place in the Hungarian and Slovenian languages. In addition to the sub-legislative acts for the implementation of the educational institutions of indigenous national communities in their mother tongue and its formation and development, the law on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian communities in the field of education and education is very important because education and education are constantly required for the implementation and development of Italian schools in the national mixed area, together with the indigenous Italian self-government national community, to analyse the process of studying all subjects studied in Italian and to make certain proposals to increase the quality of teaching and professional expression and knowledge of the Italian language in the process of education and education, where the Italian language is a learning language. These proposals are included in the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education. What I would like to say is to clarify what the first language or mother tongue means, what the language of the environment means, and what foreign languages mean. Today, this law states that a teacher in our schools and professionals who do not have the conditions so that they have not completed the envisaged Italian schools can test the knowledge of the Italian language at level C1 in this context are a common European language framework for foreign languages so that we get teachers who do not have the conditions of the completed Italian schools in our schools is enough to pass the exam at the level of the foreign language, and we are talking about the constitutional rights of the mother language so the first language is always the mother tongue. [[Incomprehensible]] In our area and where the Hungarian National Community lives and Italian is the first language of the mother tongue, Italian or Hungarian is the second language, so in our areas the language of the Slovenian language remains foreign. So this is what we want to change to talk about and to do a test of knowledge in our mother tongue. We also want to be equal and equal to Italian schools with Italian learning language equivalent to Slovenian schools with Slovenian learning language, where all lectures are held in Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u27	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u28	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues. At its 42nd emergency meeting on 12 January 2022, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education submitted to the National Assembly by Member Felice Žiža and Ferenc Horvat. At its 122nd regular meeting, on 1 December 2021, the College of Presidents adopted a decision to consider the draft law following a reduction of the procedure. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in accordance with its powers. Her representative, however, explained in more detail in her opinion the proposed amendment of the law, namely raising the level of knowledge of the Italian language for professionals who did not finish primary or secondary school in Italian and obtained the required education in Italian or who did not graduate from elementary and secondary schools in Italian. However, as regards the other comments to each article, it explained that they were duly taken into account in the amendments to the coalition. The Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which did not support the proposal of the law, also undermined its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer, followed by a representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, who said, inter alia, that language knowledge at C1 level is entirely appropriate for professional, academic and academic purposes. In particular, he raised the question of the feasibility of a proposal for a law, since there is no recognised methodology for testing the mother tongue, and the conditions for additional training for those who do not comply with the rules of education are already governed by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. He also drew attention to the short deadlines for the implementation of sub-laws and to the double criteria introduced by the proposal for a law. The debate followed in which some members and members of the Committee felt that the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council should be taken into account and taken into account, and that the proposed solution was thoughtless and incomplete. They recalled that the Law was amended in 2018 precisely because of difficulties in the recruitment of the relevant staff and that, under the new regulation, the Director would have the opportunity to select the staff arbitrarily. They pointed out that amending legislation without a broad debate and consensus reached was dangerous and that the transfer of knowledge and not just language skills should be crucial. They also did not think it appropriate that graduates of tertiary education who had completed studies in the Italian language would not be able to teach without a test of Italian language knowledge. They also pointed to the unequal treatment of the required knowledge for Italian teachers in substitution and the status of the level of knowledge of the Italian language for accompanying children with special needs. Others felt that the school’s teaching and speech were very important. They explained that the director always chooses arbitrarily because he is responsible for how the employee will be successful at work. In doing so, it must take into account the conditions imposed on it by law. They considered it right to decide whether the employees use Slovenian or national language. They explained that the model of education and education is uniform and that Slovenia, which was adopted by the Government Council of Experts, is adapted according to how it is taught in the national territory and which language it is. they considered that the quality of the language is very important for both Slovenian and national schools and that the role of administrative and technical staff is also important. They further explained that schools in the Italian national community are the centre of multiculturalism and that due to the number of pupils they have major spatial problems and that they will not have problems with employment due to the adoption of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted and adopted the amendments to the draft law. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Damir Orehovac, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u30	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and Members! We've already said something on the parental committee, and I'd like to repeat these things here. The proposed amendment to the law provides that teachers who teach Slovenian as well as foreign languages in Italian schools must demonstrate a higher level of knowledge of the Italian language at the C-1 level, which is determined by the common European language framework of the Council of Europe (hereinafter referred to as the SEE). The required level of knowledge of the Italian language for administrative and technical and other workers is also increasing, of course, depending on the job differently. In our view, this provision, after needlessly sharpening the language competences of teachers who do not use the learning language of the educational institution, i.e. in this case Italian, at a time when there is a marked lack of education and education staff. We fear that schools in this area will have more problems than they now have. We are also of the same opinion as regards the sharpening of competences in the administrative and technical staff. By amending and supplementing Article 15 it is envisaged to introduce an Italian language test as a mother tongue. The mother tongue is the one who defines an individual as a native speaker. Therefore, there is no motherhood test, nor does the SEEO system know that. In addition, the elements which constitute Italian as a native language are already regulated by the provision of Article 15, paragraph 1, which provides that an Italian language professional is to be taught as a learning language if he has completed primary or secondary school with Italian language and has obtained the required education in Italian or completed primary and secondary school with Italian language. In our view, therefore, further consideration should be given to the placement of this provision. Let me say that in Italy – that is, if we are looking at some reciprocity – it is determined that in a school with Slovenian language, the one who graduated from a secondary school with Slovenian language can teach. So the current condition, which is now legal, is stricter than, say, Italy. The language competence of professionals who do not meet the conditions laid down in Article 15 should be demonstrated by a specific examination of Italian knowledge as a mother tongue based on the Italian examination catalogue as the mother tongue for the general course. The knowledge test is to be carried out by the Ministry responsible for education in cooperation with the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me point out that neither the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Education, nor the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education have an established system of certification in accordance with the SEEA, but such infrastructure has, as a result of the currently applicable provisions, a State Examination Centre, which is also in accordance with the provisions of the current law. The state examination centre shall also have the appropriate professional staff and financial means of execution. With regard to the proposed establishment of an additional condition within the language competence of the professional worker, this has been carried out by an additional training programme aimed at improving the professional language of the subject he is teaching, but it should be stressed that the provisions of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which defines the integration of vocational training programmes as a work obligation, are not a condition for inclusion in the work. Finally, let me point out that in order to harmonise the sub-legislative acts with the provisions of the law, 1 March is defined. Since this deadline is too short for us, we are of course proposing that this deadline be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. The territory of Slovenia alone has never been ethically homogenised. The number of national minorities, their size and their significance changed throughout different historical periods in line with the changing political boundaries. Among the historical national minorities, we consider the Italian, Hungarian and Romani national communities, and the State is giving a certain part of minority protection to all. The currently guaranteed protection of the rights of national communities in our territorial territory is, according to the assessment of the DESUS Group at a moderately high level and most other Member States, either from the European Union or from the entire world map, an example of excellence in the provision of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the field of minorities. I come from this environment myself, and I am even more aware of the importance of protecting the rights of minorities and the general co-existence of the residence of all of us. Today we have before us a proposal for a novel one of many laws governing minority protection. This is a law on the special rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education, which, according to our assessment, is one of the key rules affecting the minority community. In the area of the protection of minority communities, the right to preserve and use minority languages in both private and public life constitutes the main right of minorities. The Basic Law defines the conditions to be met by professional workers and all other staff employed in educational establishments in bilingual areas. In order to maintain the language of the national communities and to establish the constitutions in this respect, quality education is also needed, which, of course, implies an appropriate level of knowledge of the language of the nationalities of those who teach. We are absolutely in agreement with this in the DESUS Group. The proposal for a new bill lays down the level of knowledge of the Italian language, which must be maintained by professionals and other workers in schools and schools in the national mixed area, and the way or procedure for demonstrating Italian language as a learning language. This provides for a higher level of knowledge of the Italian language for professionals and other workers in educational institutions. We stress in particular that a certain level of knowledge of Italian for teachers who teach Slovenian and other foreign languages in Italian schools. In the DESUS Group, we estimate that such arrangements will allow for even more quality implementation of the educational work, which is, as has already been said, one of the key factors for the continuation and development of the national community. In view of the strong position, the MEPs of the DESUS Group will unanimously support the amendment. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u34	Dear President, all present. There is power in knowledge, so it is essential that our children in kindergarten, primary schools and secondary schools acquire as much knowledge as possible, especially usable knowledge, which will help them during the adult period. If parents who have children in Slovenian schools are disgusted with the school system itself, the amount and manner of the material provided, both children and parents in bilingual schools have very different problems. No matter how good a teacher or school is, if it is not given in the appropriate language, it has no effect. Practice has shown that the proper knowledge of Italian is a major problem in bilingual schools. Perhaps this problem is more difficult to understand here in Ljubljana, but we are talking about a Slovenian nation that lives in a bilingual area. In the Slovenian National Party, it is completely incomprehensible why we have double criteria when it comes to defending our nation. It is perfectly normal for a Slovenian to want to work in a school in Brussels or Luxembourg in a bilingual school to have language skills at the level of C1. Similarly, it is required that you become a professional worker at this school, but when this happens on our soil, we do not know how to perform and clearly require a level C1. We're a small nation, but we seem to have lost our pride and national consciousness somewhere along the way. We have lost consciousness that our nation must be cared for at all levels, without bowing down and adapting at every turn. It may be ironic that in bilingual schools the Italian language is required at such a high level, but as I have already said, the whole picture is the best known candidate. It is clear to us, however, at least that children living in bilingual areas must be familiar with both Slovenian and Italian languages, so that they can normally integrate into society, socialize and grow, and ultimately cultivate their unique culture, which is part of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, colleagues and everyone who's watching us. Members of the Nationality have introduced a law that redefines the level of knowledge of the Italian language, which must be met by professionals and other workers in schools with Italian learning language. Teachers teaching in Italian, Slovenian and foreign languages will also have to demonstrate a certain level of Italian knowledge, in accordance with the common language framework of the Council of Europe. This ensures that they will be able to communicate both with students and with colleagues in Italian. It is true that education and teaching are not only done during the hours of instruction but throughout the student’s or student’s stay in school. The use of a beautiful Slovenian language in the fields of nationality as well as languages of nationality is crucial. It shows respect for cultural tradition, while at the same time citing speakers to clear and beautiful expression and love of motherhood. Since it is said that all life in school is important, it seems justified that all employees who have contact with students use it in schools with Italian learning language. Depending on the different tasks [[?]] other employees who are not professionals but are indispensable for the functioning of the school, the competent Minister of Education will determine the level of knowledge of the Italian language. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the law for these reasons, as evidence of good cooperation, and I hope that the Member of the Nationality will also contribute to mutual consideration on the other side of the border, so that such quality is also guaranteed for pupils living within the framework of nationality on the other side of the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u38	Hall of Fame, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the LMŠ Group, we are aware of the importance of respect for minority rights, which the Republic of Slovenia is finally committed to in accordance with Article 64 of the Constitution, in order to ensure that the Italian and Hungarian national communities receive education and education in Italian and Hungarian. Moreover, we are also committed to the fulfilment and exercise of the rights of the Italian and Hungarian minorities through international acts. We are therefore aware of the importance of the realization of minority rights in practice, which we have also witnessed in neighbouring countries. In neighbouring countries, many times have come and still there are failures to fulfil the rights of the Slovenian minority in practice despite international commitments, constitution and legislation relating to the Slovenian minority. In Italy, there are still difficulties in providing funds to fully realize the right of the Slovenian minority to set multiple bilingual tables. In Austria, we would like to see the realization of bilingual kindergartens and the presence of Slovenian in higher classes as well. Above all, the increase in the presence of Slovenian as an official language where Slovenians reside in Austria. For the LMŠ Group, the presence and preservation of minority languages in bilingual kindergartens and schools is therefore essential, as it is noted that fewer and fewer young people use their language. For both the Italian national community and the Slovenian national community, the decline in the use of their language is observed. In the LMŠ Group, of course, we support the efforts of Italian and Hungarian minorities in Slovenia, so that the use of their language is preserved and realized among young people. However, we cannot, through the lack of consistency and unequal treatment of the Hungarian and Italian national communities in the proposed law, which has been exposed and not least in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thus, the level of knowledge of the Hungarian language for professional workers in kindergartens and schools would be maintained by the current law, on the specific rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the field of education and education. Because this is how we should meet the knowledge of Hungarian in accordance with the common European language of the language framework. However, knowledge of the Italian language for professionals in kindergartens and schools would require knowledge of Hungarian as their mother tongue. This would result in unequal criteria for the Italian and Hungarian national communities. For these reasons, we will vote against this law in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Your Honor! Members of the national communities have tabled a proposal for a law to increase the required level of knowledge of the Italian language for professional, administrative, technical, accounting and other workers in educational institutions with the Italian teaching language. In this way, professionals who have not completed primary or secondary education in Italian or who have not completed primary or secondary education in Italian or who have not completed primary and secondary schools with Italian language following the current arrangements shall, in such a case, carry out a C1 examination of the common European language framework of the Council of Europe, the so-called SEEA. However, following the proposed arrangements, the expert shall, if he does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 15, paragraph 1, carry out an examination of the Italian language at the level of the mother tongue. The proposal also raises the required level of Italian language knowledge for teachers who teach Slovenian and foreign languages, requiring language knowledge at level C1 by SEA. The applicant considers that the current required level of Italian language knowledge is not appropriate and that there is a need to ensure a higher quality of education in the Italian learning language on the coast. We agree that the quality of education must be at the highest possible level. We are convinced that the proposed changes would also be under question as to the feasibility of the proposal in practice, as there is already a significant shortage of adequately qualified staff for individual jobs. It also points out the competent Ministry of Education, Science and Sport as well as the question of the feasibility of this proposal in particular, since there is no test of the mother tongue by any recognised methodology. We can speak more in a comparable way about language knowledge at level C2 of the SEAO. The Ministry also points out that the test catalogue has already represented a major obstacle for participants in the past, mainly due to a narrow circle of experts or language interrogators in the examination commissions and to ensuring objectivity and a sense of fairness, and that this is why the standard under the SEA was introduced. The educational institution also raises the problem of personnel, as there is a shortage of professional workers throughout the educational verticals. We are therefore convinced by the Social Democrats that such changes should be proposed by the profession and also prepared by the profession, not by members of the National Assembly. However, what happens under Dr. Kustec’s ministry happens on a regular basis, or in most key substantive laws. Of course, it is also appropriate to have the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has made comments on what all the articles have to say, which confirms that the proposal for amendments to the law has not been granted. Although the bill is also opposed by consensus by the Council of State. Social Democrats will thus not support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. In Levica, we agree that the level of use of Italian as well as one of the languages of the environment should be the highest possible level in Italian schools. This is, of course, desirable and something that belongs in these schools. On the other hand, we must, of course, face a concrete situation in these schools, in these environments. Like the proponent, some of the predecessors who have presented their position before me also come from an environment where such schools work. And in conversations, of course, the issue of the problem is that there is a problem with obtaining adequate teaching staff at such schools. It is therefore not unusual that this law was adopted in 2018 and this law then reduced the required level of education for teachers in Italian language schools, as confirmed by the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality. At that time, of course, she gave a positive opinion in line with the arrangements for these changes. The fact is that not only for schools with Italian learning language, the school space faces human resources problems with the acquisition of relevant teachers and our assessment of such an intervention, which would radically increase the required level of Italian language knowledge, is more harmful than useful. It is absurd, for example, that someone who completes Italian at the Faculty of Philosophy or at any other university under this arrangement would not be able to teach the language that he had studied. And from this point of view, of course, this will lead to additional restrictions on the number of people who could teach in these schools, which is probably not for the benefit of anyone. As has already been said, these changes are introduced without some serious and in-depth analysis, without knowing clearly whether this is the actual problem that is emerging, is the real decline in the level of Italian language knowledge. For this reason, the Council of State also unanimously opposes such changes in the law. This is why the Ministry has serious concerns about this. In his opinion, the Institute of Education has also expressed the view that it will be difficult to carry out the verification of language skills as it is now set out. So, no matter what we do in Levica, we support it as much as possible to raise and provide for the rights of both national communities in the country at the same time, and we must ensure that these rights can be exercised in such a way that they are actually feasible. Thus, according to our assessment, the current regime, which sets out the C1 level, is already appropriate in general in view of the experience with teachers and the staffing problems that schools have and that such a necessary change is not necessary at this time, but is particularly pointless in the absence of adequate analyses and in-depth studies, so that we also oppose the law. However, we would like such important laws to be said, in essence, that the Government has prepared system laws for the rights of the national communities with appropriate apparatus, with appropriate analyses, so that there would be no such problems as are likely to have a cause or source rather than in the problems of those who are interested in this area than in some promises made 4 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, all present! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education has been tabled by representatives of the Nationality: our fellow Member, Mr Žiža, and Mr Ferenc Horvat. In the Republic of Slovenia we have two indigenous national communities. These are the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Members of the Italian national community live in the areas of Koper, Izola, Piran and Ankaran. Members of the Hungarian national community live in the areas of Lendava, Dobrovnik, Šalovci, Moravian spa and Hodoš. Both communities have the right to education and education in their own language and to form and develop such education and education. The education and education of members of both national communities is an integral part of the education and education system in Slovenia and the national mixed area, where members of the Italian national community live in educational work in Italian and in schools with Italian learning languages Slovenian is taught as a language of the environment and in Slovenian language in schools with Slovenian learning language Italian is taught as a language of the environment. In the national mixed area where members of the Hungarian national community live, educational work is conducted in bilingual Slovenian and Hungarian languages. Article 14 of the Act lays down specific conditions according to language knowledge for professional workers who carry out educational work in schools and schools with Italian learning language and who master the Italian language as a learning language. The second paragraph of Article 14 is amended as follows: Teachers who teach Slovenian and foreign languages in Italian schools must successfully carry out a C1 language examination of the common European language framework of the Council of Europe, this is the first change. The second amendment is an amendment to Article 15 of the Act, which lays down the conditions of Italian language knowledge as a learning language in Italian language schools at the level of its mother tongue and does not apply at the level of C1 and is in accordance with the provision of the special statute of the London Memorandum, which Slovenia adopted in 1992 by means of an act on the nostration of the succession of the agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the Republic of Italy. [[Incomprehensible]] The third amendment to the bill raises the required level of knowledge of the Italian language for professional, administrative, technical accounting and other workers. The required level of knowledge and language depends on the specifics of each job and the way it is checked. In Novi Slovenija we have written in the basic programme: the country must guarantee individual freedom and must realize the democratic desire of the majority, while also protecting the rights of minorities. Therefore, it needs a credible legal framework based on free democratic fundamental regulation and the division of power. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u46	Thank you, President. Your Honor! In the Republic of Slovenia, special rights of indigenous minorities are recognised only by the Italian and Hungarian national communities. In border areas where members of both communities live, Italian in the west or Hungarian in the eastern part of the country is also an official language. This right is defined by Article 11 of our Constitution in Article 64, and the special rights of both national communities are enshrined, including the right to education and education in their own language. These rights are also set out more precisely by the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education, the novelty of which is before us today. This novel new in terms of sharpening the level of knowledge of the Italian language, which must be met by professionals and other workers in schools with Italian learning language. The main reason for amending the law, according to the proposaler, is to follow changes in practice and to provide higher quality in the Italian learning language on the coast. The applicant underlines the uneven approach to the required level of Italian knowledge for both professional and professional workers performing professional administrative, technical and even other works. In the SAB Group, we have considered the amendments carefully, but, in the light of all the comments made by some stakeholders, we remain detained. The novelty has a number of shortcomings, such as an uneven approach to the Hungarian language and the human resources problem in the implementation of the law itself, as there is a shortage of professional workers throughout the educational area. In the context of modern Europe, what does a language test at the level of the mother tongue mean? We agree with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council that the common language framework is a sufficient methodology to evaluate the level of linguistic knowledge that is transparent and comparable, while at the same time raising the issue of the reciprocal regulation of such a matter for the Slovenian minority in Italy. We are aware of the importance of quality education in Italian and Hungarian in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live. We are also aware of how such tightening would prevent the employment of all those who come to live and work on the coast from other parts of Slovenia. In the light of all the above, we will not support the SAB proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly within 15 minutes of the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE LEGISLATION AND DISABILITATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION AND DISABILITATION PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by three Members with the first-signed France Jurša. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Branko Simonovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! Coordination shall aim at maintaining the value of pensions at the time of their payment. The negative effects of the austerity measures are increased by an increase in their number or by an extension of the savings period. If the harmonisation of pensions is limited to or not at all, its purpose is not realized and, as a result, the value of pensions is reduced, thus weakening the material situation of pensioners and other beneficiaries who align themselves with pensions. During the period 2010 to 2015, pensions were not coordinated in accordance with the system regime under PPIZ-1 and PPIZ-2, resulting in a reduction of 8,4 % according to the calculations of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. In the Desus Group, we tried to remedy this deficit in pensions after the end of the crisis, with the economic growth and improvement of the state of the public finances, by submitting a proposal for a law already in 2017, but let me remind you, the then President of the Government resigned prematurely, we had early elections and the law ended in drawers. However, in our parliamentary group, as a coalition partner in the coming governments, we have continued to make up for this backlog in the coordination of pensions. In the event of more extensive regular coordination of pensions, the agreed extraordinary harmonisations have begun with 2018 to significantly replace the resulting shortening of coordination from the past. As last coordinated at the end of 2020, the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute recorded a deficit of 3,5 %. With the submission of a proposal last May, we aimed at a final withdrawal, which is due to take place in December 2021. The legislative procedure for dealing with the proposal has stalled and has been delayed due to the interim adoption of an extremely important law, namely the Long-Term Care Act. Knowing that the possibility of enacting a law in December is virtually impossible, Members of the Desus Group decided that we were trying to make up for the adoption of the law as soon as possible, and that is why we are also proposing this extraordinary meeting. In the parliamentary group, we are aware of the financial consequences, we know what 200 million means for the sustainability of the pension fund, but we believe that the older generation, that is, all pensioners and pensioners, has paid an extremely high tax in mitigating the economic crisis. In the last two years, unfortunately, this generation has been paying a new tax, called covid. In our view, it is high time for pensioners to finally and fully recover the deprivation they have experienced over the past ten years due to the years' irregular coordination of pensions. However, at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, it was calculated that the deficit from the economic crisis was only in the case of pensioners up to and including 2010, at 3,5 %, and in the case of pensioners in 2011, at 1,7 %. This was followed by a supplement at yesterday's committee meeting, which added 1% to these calculations for all pensioners. As a proposaler, I must thank all the Members and Members who have supported our proposal for the law, but I am sure that today's support for the law will be unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Jurša to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. However, the College of the President of the National Assembly confirmed the procedure. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her written opinion and warned that the proposal for a law was controversial in terms of compliance with Articles 2, 14 and 153 of the Constitution. Derogates from legal procedures, i.e. the conditions and methods of coordination of pensions as provided for by STIZ-2. Nomotechnically incorrectly introduces a new institute into the transitional provisions of the 2012 PIZ-2. It is also incorrect in terms of legislative and technical solutions. With regard to the amendment tabled by the coalition groups, she said that their comments were not taken into account that this additional harmonisation should not be included in Article 430 of the ZPIZ-2. It is probably necessary to complement or clarify the purpose, since coordination alone is not automatic. It shall be subject to the conditions laid down in this Article and shall be subject to any additional harmonisation and the purpose of harmonisation shall not be clear. The Committee received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee. And the Council of State supports the proposed amendment. The Commission supports the bill mainly in terms of solidarity with pensioners who have been financially disadvantaged in the last 11 years due to inconsistent coordination of pensions. They believe that the majority of the funds to be earmarked for the proposed emergency pension increase will flow back into the economy and indirectly back into the state budget by increasing the consumption of pensioners. However, they point to the continued sustainability of cash pension and disability insurance in particular in terms of demographic trends. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance supports extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, but in the manner in which the Council of the Institutions advocates, that is to say, for differentiated extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. This method of harmonisation is assessed as fair, thus eliminating the systemic non-coordination of pensions from 2010 to 2015. In fact, the pensions of those who retired from 2016 did not have an impact on pension mismatches between 2010 and 2015, so they also agree with the amendment of coalition groups and believe that it is very good, as this will eliminate the deficit from the past. To be completed at the annual level, 145 million euros will need to be provided. In the short debate that followed, the debater's position was that the proposed novels did not solve all the injustices that had occurred to pensioners in the past. However, the reconciliation of pensions should be in absolute terms and for all pensioners the same. The other panellist stressed that the current government is working towards a better position for pensioners, including higher pensions. To this end, they have submitted an amendment to the coalition to remedy the injustices of the past. The Committee then adopted both the amendments tabled, both the amendment of the Coalition's sent groups and the amendment of the DESUS Group. And now a complementary bill is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u51	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Prime Minister, Mrs Mateja Ribič, the State sectarians at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members. In May 2021 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia received an opinion on the Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Jurša. The proposal proposed that, in December 2021, pensions should be re-coordinated at an exceptional rate of 3,5 %. Yesterday, 12 January 2022, an amendment was adopted at the urgent 68th meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was tabled by coalition parties and also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The content of the amendment follows the analysis carried out by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which shows that additional extraordinary harmonisation at different levels is necessary to achieve the abolition of past coordination. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia introductoryly points out that, in its work, it has always advocated ensuring the social and material security of all categories of pensioners within this objective, as well as the abolition of austerity measures in connection with the coordination of pensions. The harmonisation of pensions is a fundamental instrument that maintains the real value of pensions over a longer period of time and thus ensures social and material security for pensioners. This respects the rule of law, as well as the legal security of individuals and the confidence of those individuals only in a system that was stifled a few years ago by multiple interventions into the pension scheme with other laws. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia had a crisis in the course of the epidemic in 2020 and 2021, and several amendments to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance of STIZ 2 have been adopted over the past year to alleviate the consequences of the health crisis and to raise the social security of pensioners with the lowest income. Measures to address the past economic crisis did not address all pensioners in the same scope and therefore a preliminary solution to the question which had not yet been fully resolved by those pensioners. To this end, the Office carried out an analysis of the prior harmonisations after each year and compared only those with the harmonisations to which they would be eligible if pensions were coordinated in accordance with system law. The results of the analysis show that pensions should be harmonised at different levels, i.e. pensions recognised up to and including 31. 12. 2020, further harmonised by 3,5 % and pensions recognised in 2011 are expected to be further harmonised by 1,7 %. This result was also followed at yesterday's meeting by the amendment of the coalition parties. At the same time, following the same amendment of 1 January 2022, the minimum pension, the guaranteed pension and the minimum amount of invalidity pension referred to in Article 39(1), third and fourth paragraphs of Article ZPIZ 2 would also be aligned by 1%. In line with the above, from the point of view of the Government, we would like to add that further harmonisation of pensions is therefore necessary in order to eliminate the deprivation of past reconciliations, but in the manner that follows from the content of the amendment of the coalition parties approved at yesterday's urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the objective that I am pursuing, as otherwise the objective that we are pursuing cannot be achieved. Harmonisation for all pensioners of 3,5 % would not mean eliminating the differences arising from non-coordination or limited coordination, but would create new injustices between generations of pensioners in relation to their retirement year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President. The bill adds one article, which is essential for our pensioners, as it provides for the harmonisation of pensions of 3,5 %, 1,7 % and 1 % respectively by group of pensioners. The fact is that the financial and economic crisis over the past years has shown teeth right in our country's pension system, which has already been undernourished. Now all citizens are still fed by a health crisis, which further threatens just an older population, which is particularly vulnerable and needs special attention from our country. The latter went against the law on long-term care, and the current government with the new intervention law or PKP-10 made sure that pensioners would receive the solidarity allowance paid, which was particularly welcome for those with the lowest pensions. We have long observed and warned in the Slovenian National Party that our country's problem is becoming increasingly ageing for society. The nativeity of the Slovenians is falling down because they are becoming less and less determined to be a family in these uncertain years. The problem is also a problem for over-educated young people who want to work in their profession but do not get a job, so they prefer to be unemployed rather than be employed with minimum wage. Some older ones who might have retired and resigned from their chair may still be able to work comfortably until late age, but all of this affects our own retirement allowance, which we make for ourselves. Every citizen who has worked hard and honestly in this country wants material and social security as a pensioner and deserves it not to live on the shoulders of his unemployed children, grandchildren, relatives. We must be aware that this is one of our most vulnerable groups, which is very numerous and that pensions are not a social transfer given by the State. To many of the pensioners, pension is the only source of income for survival in his last lifetime. Of course, there are those who are still physically, mentally strong enough to continue working for a pair of 10 euros more in their pocket, and most of them are burned-up physical workers who are looking forward to meeting the conditions for retirement. We have recently witnessed a number of crises that have led to basic needs such as food, drink, electricity, fuel and could still be listed. All of this affects the purchasing power of pensioners and their decent lives. In the Slovenian National Party, it is crystal clear to us that our pensioners have the top of all the injustices, deprivations that have occurred in the past and have touched on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In all these years, Slovenians have had to squeeze their teeth too many times and tighten their belts at the expense of various austerity measures in the past governments. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is just now the right time for things to return to their original pre-crisis situation and at least a little smile on the faces of our pensioners. Make sure that the final pensions are perfectly harmonised in different percentage points higher than those calculated on the basis of the PPIZ. It is important that the bill improves the erroneous or material situation of pensioners. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this is an extremely good solution, which works for our pensioners by following the principle of solidarity, socialism and economic justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues all have a good day! Today, it will be very hard to see who in the past has taken certain rights and who is restoring them or correcting them. [[Incomprehensible]] This is in view of the fact that pensioners in the category of electorate are also understandable and legitimate, but it should be the essence of today's debate and vote on the proposed law slightly more than just pointing a finger at yours and ours. More importantly, we are all aware that the last economic and financial crisis has hit both the pensioner's pocket and a number of other categories of citizens and citizens. Many of them are socially endangered. The same value also has the message that the time has come when mistakes can be corrected backwards regardless of who has caused them and no matter who is correcting them. The proposal for a law improves the freezing of pensions from 2010 onwards. Pensioners were granted these deductions because their pensions were not coordinated during the economic crisis or were aligned with a lower percentage than would be the percentage determined in accordance with the applicable legislation. The applicant assesses this backlog to 3,5 % for which it would be necessary to carry out a new extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, which would have a significant impact on the material situation of pensioners. As a result of austerity measures, pensioners have taken on a large part of the burden of the financial crisis and have thus contributed to the stabilisation of public finances. The aim is therefore to remove past freezes and to ensure higher social security for recipients, which also coincides with the current situation of the Kovid crisis that we have been in for more than two years. A short time ago, Umar also found that the material situation of the elderly in Slovenia is worse than that of the EU. The unaffiliated Members agree with the proposed solutions, and of course we will be pleased to support the proposal. Nevertheless, it is our responsibility to draw attention to a fact that goes beyond crediting who has done more in the care of pensioners. The last few changes in the pension law have significantly affected the dignity of pensions. However, these changes did not include sustainability parameters. Our pension system is based on an insurance principle and includes a solidarity note. In doing so, it must be held responsible for the fact that something is seriously wrong in the pension system if the amount of the pension is increasingly dependent on the level and duration of the pension payments, but increasingly on the solidarity principle. We have witnessed this in recent years, and that is why we will have to pay a certain price in the long run. The payment of employees' contributions to the pension fund must ensure an adequate amount of pension for people when they retire. Only in this way will we be able to maintain the desire, the need and, of course, the sense of paying our contributions. Since we are already in the pre-election period, it is especially important for us that the pre-election and plausible retirement promises be realistic and just. The continuation of partial social interventions into the pension fund will in the long term lead to serious discussion on the sustainability of the pension fund. For unpopular but urgent interventions such as longer working hours and an increase in retirement age, which the next pension reform will certainly require, the view must cut longer than the next elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u58	Thank you so much again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We therefore have before us a change or addition to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, with which we want to reconcile pensions and other benefits, for those parts of the lack of harmonisation that have not been made due to austerity measures in the past. The fact is that, even today, the preliminary position has already stated that due to the economic and financial crisis, pensions have not been harmonised or coordinated in a lower percentage than a percentage would have been determined in accordance with the legislation in force. By this law, honourable Members, we are therefore correcting this today, because we are aware of the importance of ensuring social and material security for all categories of pensioners who are already so many in social distress. Some are also on the brink of poverty. And at the time of the epidemic, there are additional trials. And that is why we have always taken care of improving their position in the coalition. Let me remind you that we have paid twice the solidarity allowance to pensioners of between 130 and 300 euros, depending, of course, on the amount of the pension. In the PKP10, which we have considered just recently also the so-called Dragan Supplement. With regard to the amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act that we have before us today, there were four changes to the well-being of the various categories of pensioners during this government and this coalition. In addition to the systematic regular harmonisation of pensions in December, the government also carried out an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 2%. We've raised guaranteed pensions. We've raised the lowest invalidity pensions. We corrected the injustice or discrimination of peasants. You will remember, these farmers paid for a wider range of rights, but when they retired, they were granted a narrower range of rights and thus a lower rate of pension. We've fixed this, so it's discrimination and injustice. We have corrected more than 56,000 people who have not been recognised by the time of the purchase, even though it has been paid fairly under the rules then in force, if I say so. Today, however, this law ensures the next harmonisation of pensions: with a view to the abolition of the backlog in the coordination of pensions, from 1 January 2022 pensions and other benefits, recognised by 3,5 % by 31 December 2010, recognised from 1 January to 31 December 2011 for 1,7 %, and recognised from 1 January 2012 onwards for 1 %. With effect from 1 January 2022, the minimum pension, the guaranteed pension and the minimum amount of invalidity pension referred to in Article 39(1), third and fourth paragraphs of this Act shall also be harmed by 1%. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this law in such content as I have just presented it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome again! The 2008 economic and financial crisis had a profound impact on all the global economies. Its consequences have been felt by people in various areas of life. In 2012, the then government of Janez Janša adopted a savings law, so-called ZUJF, which also provided for, inter alia, a restriction or freeze on the coordination of pensions from 2010 onwards. The reconciliation of pensions was thus limited in 2010 and 2011 and was not available in 2012, 2014 and 2015 and was minimal in 2013. Although pensions have been re-coordinated since 2016, the consequences of the austerity measures in this area have not yet been fully eliminated. Today we have a law aimed at eliminating the consequences of past freezes of pensions and disability benefits. With the proposed solution, pensions and those benefits would return to the level as if there were no anti-crisis measures taken. The original proposal envisaged an additional harmonisation of 3,5 %, as is still a deficit up to the previous crisis. However, an amendment adopted on the labour force provides that pensioners who have retired up to and including 2010 will be further harmonised at 3,5 % and those who have retired in 2011 will be aligned at 1,7 % and those who have retired from 1 January 2012 at 1%. The minimum pension, the guaranteed pension and the minimum amount of the invalid pension shall also be adjusted at the rate of 1 %. During the time of the government of Marjan Šarc, we removed many of the then existing savings measure introduced by the ZUJF. We therefore support the proposal in the LMŠ, which removes in the past the austerity measures that are still felt by pensioners today. We advocate that the pension system must ensure that the people to whom it is intended have a decent life, which requires decent pensions. Therefore, in our view, there is a need for further harmonisation of pensions. We will, of course, support the bill in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's proposal to supplement the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides for the abolition of past pension freezes and disability benefits from the financial crisis, will be supported by the Social Democrats. This is a debt from 2010 to 2015 when there was no regular coordination of pensions due to urgent austerity measures. During this period, pensions were coordinated at lower rates than they should in accordance with regular annual coordination. Thus, pensions were harmonised by half in 2010 according to the system law, in 2011 by a quarter, and in 2012, 2014 and 2015 they were not coordinated at all, while in 2013 only 0.1% of pensions were aligned for fighting. Such an intervention in the system-wide coordination of pensions due to austerity measures caused financial damage to pensioners and pensioners, as their incomes were lower than they would have been if pensions were regularly coordinated each year. Regular coordination of pensions is the main way in which the real value of pensions is maintained over a longer period, and in this way material and social security is ensured for the pensioners. According to the latest 2019 Statistics Office, the poverty rate of the elderly is almost twice that of the average poverty risk in Slovenia, as it represents a risk of poverty for over 59 years of age of 21.5%, with male older women particularly exposed to the risk of poverty. The rate of poverty among pensioners is particularly high, since for most individuals retirement represents a significant reduction in income. This is particularly true for Slovenia, since we are among the countries where pensions are significantly lower than the average of the European Union, depending on the level of pre-retirement benefits. However, the problem of low pensions cannot be solved through partial interventions into the pension system, as this destroys the fairness of the system based on paid contributions and intergenerational solidarity. For existing pensioners, the problem of low pensions needs to be addressed primarily by greater accessibility to the protective allowance. For the future generation of pensioners, however, solutions need to be sought in higher wages, which will also pay higher social contributions, and in as much as possible the involvement of employees in collective supplementary insurance. The proposed additional harmonisation of pensions represents the final elimination of the effects of the austerity measures introduced during the financial crisis. All other austerity measures have already been implemented. Therefore, the Social Democrats will be complemented by a proposal for a law that takes into account, at the level of harmonisation, which has not yet been harmonised in the past, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenian pension legislation is extensive and complex. Unfortunately, she has been shot with almost as many injustices as there are articles — and there are many articles. Likely, one of the most in heaven - crying injustices is the fact that people work their entire lives to be plagued by poverty, and then, even in their old age, they are not expected to be safe. Thus, we have as many as 90 thousand people living below the poverty risk threshold, and they belong to a group of pensioners. Among them are older single women. We have the lowest pension, which amounts to fighting, prickly, shameful 280 euros. Of course, the elimination of poverty between pensioners and all past injustices should therefore be based on the inequality or legal complexity of Slovenian pension legislation, one of the priorities of the delegation group in Levica. In the current mandate, although we are working from the opposition, we have succeeded with two of our initiatives. The first was to ensure the recognition of payments of self-paid persons to the pension register after 1. 1. In 2013, as a result of which certain pensioners had a significant recovery, again some others were able to retire normally, which they could not. Another, perhaps more important or more tangible, which concerns an even larger group of pensioners, is the adjustment of the full-time pension to the current €620 per month. Of course, we are very proud of both achievements, but it is only the beginning of the elimination of injustices between pensioners and the targeting of inequalities that occur in the old age. We have tried twice on the initiative to raise fairer levels of contribution for employers in pension payments, which would provide us with an additional €500 million of funding each year, which could further raise the lowest pensions. Unfortunately, we have taken this initiative twice, and the political class has rejected it twice, but you can imagine that we will insist on it. Just from our address on the elimination of injustice and the reduction of poverty among pensioners, we also support the current law that we have on the table today. It has been a crime in recent years that the then second government of Janez Janša, with its infamous savings law, has taken a good 8% pensioner out of non-compliance. Much of the good half has been eliminated to date, but 3.5% of the harmonisation remains here, as long as the country remains indebted to pensioners for its unfair and unfair measures. We received such a proposal at the original table, but in the adoption process it changed with the amendment on the right side of this National Assembly and the harmonisation of pensions instead of 3.5% for all pensioners, by what regime and by what kind of pension legislation they went to retirement. In this way, some pensioners will indeed receive a harmonisation of 3.5%, and again some others 1%, regardless of how low or high a pension they receive today, but only for legal reasons for what kind of legislation they have retired. I think this suggests very wrong priorities and a complete misunderstanding of the political class for what the lives of pensioners look like today. The first criterion, which should be borne in particular in these times of preciousness, where pensioners do not have to smoke, cannot afford pasta, food costs fly to the sky and so on, should be our first guide to ensure fair and fair protection for the poorest pensioners, who are already the hottest. What should be done is not only to fix pensions as a percentage of 3.5 per cent for pensioners, but to translate these percentages into absolute amounts and thus correct all pensions equally in percentage, but in absolute amount. After all, we are talking about co-ordination with rising prices and the cost of living, which are being auctioned equally for everyone, but just the poorest pensioners are the ones who feel the most. However, it goes under the line for a raise, so in Levica we will support the current law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija-Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The Desus Group proposed to harmonise pensions other than the annual allowance and the aid and service allowance of 3,5 % in addition to regular harmonisation. After an analysis by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we tabled the amendment adopted by the parties to the coalition at the meeting of the parent working body. This amendment removes the backlog in pensions which, due to austerity measures during the economic crisis, have not been harmonised in accordance with systemic legislation. Some pensioners are more backward than others with regard to the coordination of pensions, so as of 1 January 2022 all pensions will be further harmonised, not in the same percentage, but in different categories according to the backlog. By 31 December 2010, pensions recognised by 3,5 %, pensions recognised from 1 January to 31 December 2011 by 1,7 % and pensions recognised from 1 January 2012 onwards by 1 %. With effect from 1 January 2022, the minimum pension, the guaranteed pension and the minimum amount of the invalid pension shall also be adjusted by 1%. In the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats we have proven many times that we care about our elders and that the coalition in which we operate shows a special feeling for the pensioners. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Janez Cigler King began by building several houses of elderly and units for daily forms of protection, including in Moravča, Command, Vrhnika, Ravna na Koroškem and could also list. In addition, we have helped pensioners with higher pensions, with an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions for 2% of December 2020, for which we have earmarked €94 million. The regular harmonisation of pensions of 3.2% 2020 in the value of €172 million, the three-fold solidarity of the anti-coron allowance for all pensioners with lower pensions amounting to approximately €210 million, the increase in the minimum disability pensions to €389 and €6.5 million per year, the increase in the minimum pension rate of €279 for which €2.5 million per year is allocated, the increase in the 40-year retirement pension rate to €620, which amounts to €34 million per year, and the higher annual allowances for 2020 and €2021 for 2022 also provides for a slightly higher annual allowance of €140 to €450. The average gross old pension paid in November 2021, i.e. the current government was €729.51. For comparison only, the average gross retirement pension in 2014 was €616.40, which is more than €110, less than the current average gross retirement pension. Justice between generations is governed by an intergenerational contract and a pension. Due to the increasing life expectancy, we need to strike a long-term balance between pension benefits from pension insurance, retirement age and pensions. Retirement must be fair and adequate. Those who have worked their whole lives must live a decent and independent life in the fall. Whoever has paid more in the pension fund has a higher pension, as we have different types of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Whoever raised the kids has to have a higher pension for that. We must actively fight against poverty at the age of the most affected women. The beneficiaries of disability insurance must ensure a decent life. Since in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that no one who works or works especially full-time, must not be poor, but at the same time must be just and just, we will unanimously support the proposal to amend the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u68	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! Napi pensioners have paid dearly for the financial crisis that has passed for ten years. A significant amount of austerity measures fell on their shoulders, including anti-constitutional interventions to the amount of certain pensions. The Public Finance Balance Act and the pension reform with changes in the rate scale and the extension of the pension base period are good principles of the social situation of pensioners at the end of 2012. Taking into account the interruption in the coordination of pensions between 2010 and 2015, it becomes clear why so many pensioners slipped below the poverty threshold from which there was no exit for many. Those days weren't easy. They were marked by difficult decisions and a critical financial situation that could also bankrupt the country. However, we have then managed to stabilise public finances and the financial system and create the conditions for relaunching the economy and consequently improve the material situation of pensioners as well. We have achieved something since then, but the path to maintaining the surplus of the budget and reducing public debt has crossed Covid's crisis. This is true that it did not hit the pensioners in the pocket, but it is still right that the injustices committed to pensioners as a result of austerity measures during the financial crisis are eliminated to the greatest extent possible. In the SAB, we have always stood up for ending savings on pensioners. Let me remind you, therefore, that during the worst crisis, pensions in the time of our government were given extraordinary harmonisation. We have also succeeded in recent years with our proposals to improve the situation of pensioners from an increase in the percentage of pensions, to shorten this previous period to increase this percentage to the provision of free cross-border transport by buses and trains across Slovenia. Also, the novels of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance significantly improve the material situation of the elderly and those who have taken on a heavy burden at the time of saving themselves. For the proposed introduction of additional harmonisation of pensions, their victims will be victims when the pensions have not been harmonised at least partially. In the SAB, we support the proposal of the novel. On this occasion, however, I will point to an even broader picture of the pension system. The fact is that demographic changes are here and are inevitable, and we also need to adapt existing systems to this. The rise in the proportions of pensioners in the structure of the population increases expenditure on pensions as well as on health and long-term care. On the other hand, on the income side, we are facing an increase in the volume of precarious forms of employment and thus contributions. As a result, the matter will need to be strategically coordinated and the whole system will need to be made more coherent. The fact that the pension system acquires a strong social subsequently besides the insurance character is evident from a number of novelties over the last few years. These partial interventions into such a complex system of legislation actually weaken and disrupt the pension system, and the matter will need to be settled on a uniform and coherent basis in the future. We have a difficult time ahead of us, which requires thinking about investing quite in green with a balanced budget, which also ensures that the enormous debt incurred has been repaid in the last period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. As the proponents themselves mentioned in the bill on pension and disability insurance today, we are again removing one of the many injustices or correcting the unfortunate marriage solutions from the past. Recent interventions into the system legislation governing pension insurance have often proved reckless. We have heard several times that pensioners have been materially disadvantaged in the last 10 years, as pensions were not coordinated at all during the economic crisis or coordinated in a significantly lower percentage of the legislation envisaged. The harmonisation of pensions should be carried out once a year on the basis of the growth of the average monthly gross salary and the average growth in living needs. However, the crises of the last decade dictated a different regular annual reconciliation of pensions if at all. In 2010 and 2011, pension coordination was limited. The harmonisation was carried out at the amount of half or a quarter of the statutory amount. However, there was no harmonisation of pensions in 2012 at all. [[Incomprehensible]] One year later, the alignment was 0.1 percent. There was no harmonisation in 2014 and 2015. A slightly higher reconciliation of pensions took place only between 2016 and 2020. In preparing the law, the applicants were also based on the above-mentioned facts and consequently on the deterioration of the material situation of the elderly. The proposal for a law in the proposed text therefore provides for a new extraordinary harmonisation of pensions of 3.5% for all pensioners, although we have adjusted this percentage slightly on the working body, taking into account all the harmonisations from 2010 onwards. It was re-examined on the labour market that the austerity measures were not fully implemented in pensioners who retired until including 2011, with pensioners who retired by the end of 2010, more than those who retired in 2011. Retired in 2012 or later, they are already in a more favourable position on the basis of extraordinary harmonisations following the analysis of the PIZ. The last extraordinary reconciliation of pensions took place at 2 per cent. The difference between pensioners in terms of the level of reconciliation of pensions and the importance of extraordinary reconciliation of pensions has been pointed out by STIZ and also by the Government, which explained that pensions in 2012 were higher by 1.1%, higher by 2.5% in 2013, higher by 5.2%, higher by 2017 and 2018, higher by 4.5%, and higher by 2% in 2020. Of course, we have not mentioned all outstanding harmonisations after years, but only for a few years, with only the fact that users of rights today are entitled to higher amounts of pensions, which certainly would not have occurred if there had been no extraordinary harmonisation. Therefore, on the home work body, we adopted a supplement at the initiative of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which, according to the new provision of differentiated coordination of pensions in order to bring the pensions of those who retired in 2011 into line with 1,7 %, the pensions of those who retired until including 2010, to be harmonised at 3,5 %, the pensions of those who retired from including 1 January [[sign for the end of the debate]] 20212 further and they shall be harmonised by 1%. For 1 %, the amounts of the lowest pension, the guaranteed pension and the minimum amount of the invalid pension shall also be adjusted. In the Group of Members in particular, we will support the proposed amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again a nice greeting to all present! The purpose of reconciliation of pensions is to ensure their real value. This is a fundamental instrument that maintains the value of long-term pensions and thus provides social and material security for pensioners. During the financial and economic crisis 12 years ago, Slovenia introduced a wide range of austerity measures in several areas that sought to balance public finances, including pensions. Pensioners and pensioners were reduced by 8.4% from 2010 to 2015 in pensions due to non-systematic coordination. For pensioners with a circus of 500 euros of initial pension in 2010, when the savings started, this meant, to date, in grave calculations, a reduction of almost nine pensions. It is clear that all this loss in valorisation is reflected in a permanent deficit, and there is no doubt that the material situation of pensioners and other recipients who coordinate as pensions is significantly worse than it would have been if these revenues were not affected by the freezing of reconciliations. Desus is a political party that is constantly watching over the situation of the older generation and Members Desus have been tasked with eliminating this deficit in pensions. We are pleased to learn that our efforts were not in vain. With our efforts and demands for extraordinary harmonisation, we have slowly but successfully eliminated the deficits, so that we have not more than halved. Following the last extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in December 2020, the deficit stopped at 3.5%. Today, we are pleased to inform the public, especially our pensioners and pensioners, that this story will be successfully completed. We can proudly conclude this mandate and say that the perseverance of the Desus Members of this Assembly has produced fruit. The rehabilitation or final abolition of past non-coordination of pensions will be completed today. Some will probably be dissatisfied with the final purchase because, on the basis of yesterday's acceptance, the pension supplement followed by the professional calculations prepared at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will not increase all pensioners in the same proportion. With a calm conscience, however, all three Members of the Desus Group, who are present today in the vote, can press the "yes" button, as the solution that differs from the lack of alignment in line with the actual disadvantages of good is just and professionally justified. However, I would like to point out that pensions in January will be as high as ever for all those whose pensions in the past have not been burdened by austerity measures at all. It is true that only a percentage, but all pensioners are awaiting a significant increase in the next month, as an increase of around 4% is foreseen in February's regular coordination. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. I hereby adjourn this agenda item and the 93rd meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 1 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 12.45 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 13. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u74	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 1, 2 and 3. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 1st item of the agenda – the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and supplements to the Public Procurement Act, the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. Explanation of vote, Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, chairman. Overpayments, commissions, suppliers, corruption — these are the different notes of the same strain that can be summed up as capitalism, on which the state relies to provide it with material and equipment for the needs of the public health system. The consequences are obvious and horrifying: on the one hand, the loss of public funds for corruption is increasing and, on the other hand, there is a build-up of social power in some business individuals outside democratic control that allows such lobbyists to access directly even the President of the Government. The parties forming the current coalition say that this type of problem of capitalism and corruption in health care will be addressed by price regulation. I wish that were true! All we've really received with the amendments to the Public Procurement Act is the wide opening of the door to buy medical material and equipment in the same logic as the masks and fans. What? What could go wrong? In Levica we therefore see these amendments to the Public Procurement Act as one of the farewell gifts that the current Government and its coalition devote to lobbyist friends of Janez Janša, such as Maršič and his other friend from the leave to Mauritius, so we will vote against the current law. If we want to get rid of corrupt hunters in the procurement of materials and equipment in the public health system, these hunters need to be cut short. With such social power as a handful of individuals have, no regulation will help. What we see in Levica as the only serious response to corruption in healthcare supplies is the establishment of a public agency to buy medical materials and equipment that would completely eliminate intermediaries, their margins and commissions and purchase material directly from manufacturers on behalf of the whole country. This is the only way to reduce the risk of corruption and ensure that our health system is based on an optimal price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan. [[advertising from the hall]] In a personal name, okay, later. First of all, Victory Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Well, my friend Kordish sometimes says something clever, but today he has completely missed the purpose of this marriage. It is precisely the purpose of this law to prevent corruption and all that Mr Kordesh has mentioned. In the Slovenian National Party we started by addressing this topic and by trying to change something already in 1997, and only now could something have been done under this Government. That is why we have been involved in this law. I think the law is good. The law will prevent most of those, I'd say, awkward, but you'll have to look under the fingertips. Of course, we'll have to look under the fingertips and look under the fingertips, don't worry. But we will be most happy to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your name, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. But I am not opposed to this law, because the basic guidelines are those that I am defending myself, and that is that if we want to make more order and reduce the risks, we need to go to a system of reference prices in countries that are exemplary and we need to have things centralised. The very direction of this law is going in the right direction, but unfortunately the solutions are a lot of kilowatts. I wanted to, so I also addressed the government, although the government isn't the one who proposed this law, but it has a bigger machine to cooperate. I am also pleased to have the delegation's position that as soon as the elections are over, we hope for a better government that we will have to go in the direction of improving this direction, which is also the case with Dr. Night's representative. It is also an inappropriate provision to tolerate 10 per cent higher prices than the reference prices, but it is unacceptable why I would not therefore vote against them. But I'll do everything I can to, after there's a different majority, to make the marriage better the way health wants.si. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-13-SDZ8-Izredna-93.ana.u80	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 11. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education in the framework of the Short-Term Procedure. As no amendments to the amended law have been tabled to the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Before voting, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a law relating to the exercise of certain rights in the Constitution and the position of the national communities alone shall be adopted by the Members of the national communities. The agreement is deemed to have been given if Members of the National Communities voted in favour of the law of Mr Ferenc Horvat and Mr Felica Žižo, so I ask whether you agree with the proposed law, so will they vote in favour of the law? They will. Okay. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 33. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in the framework of the shorter procedure. In the second reading, amendments to the amended law have not been tabled and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and 93rd meeting of the assembly.
