ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Franc Jurša, Tina Heferle from 13 p.m., Predrag Baković, Jani Prednik, Only Bevk until 13 p.m., Nick Prebil, Edward Paulič, mag. Alenka Bratusek. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 9th and 18th items of the agenda, the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simono Kustec to the 40th item of the agenda, the Minister of the Environment and the Magi area. Mr Andrej Visiak at the 41st item of the agenda, Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti at the 42nd turn of the agenda, Minister of Defence of Mags. On the 43rd item of the agenda, on the 44th item of the agenda and on all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 4 March 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of a point or for the extension of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the agenda, we must decide on a decision to be taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 132nd meeting, on 4 March 2022, that the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism should be dealt with on an urgent basis. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 40 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision of the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are therefore moving on to the request that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants to request Dr Mate T. Vatov to present the request.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Not a month has passed since the 51-vote National Assembly rejected the Government's proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing to a new, revised version sent by the Government to the National Assembly. There is no longer in this revised version that inspectors can enter your homes without a court order, but there is nothing left. The President of the State Office, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, access to virtually every database in the country, the Minister of Justice could determine who would be investigated and who would not, and an incredible mega database on virtually every citizen of the country would be collected. Once again, I stress that the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is crucial and important, but that one person is given, and this is the Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, such a large, extensive and unlimited mandate, is something that is not acceptable to any government. However, when we talk about one month before the elections being given such powers by someone currently appointed by the current government, the government, which has been very active in subjugating virtually every institution in the country, is unheard of. Thus, from this point of view and given that the National Assembly has already made such a proposal of the law very clear no, I stress, with 51 votes, we are proposing to the proposers and motioners of the KUL opposition to reconsider this procedure, and we propose that such a law, which does not really have anything to do with the implementation of the European directives, should not be dealt with in accordance with the urgent procedure, since there is no need for it. If the Government wanted to actually implement the European directives, it could only do so, but not that in its own manner, as we have seen in the past, it has been possible to influence the laws of the impostor and the solutions that have nothing to do with the purposes and purposes of the legislation itself. So once again – against the urgency and, of course, that these authorities and offices, which are, of course, crucial to the fight against money laundering, are not politicized and that, of course, they can carry out their work in accordance with the objective and purpose, not with the wishes and interests of one party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision, and I quote: The proposal for a law on the prevention of legal money and the financing of terrorism shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 34. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore, on Wednesday 23 March 2022, consider the draft law in accordance with the meeting's timetable. The second agenda item of the 30th meeting of the Assembly is therefore irrelevant and withdrawn [[Lapsus linguae. President Igor Zorčič, following the meeting, corrects the error: “Before we move on to agenda item 1, just for the minutes, let me point out that the agenda has been adopted as proposed, i.e. for agenda item 2, because I have marked the preceding item as off-limits before the vote, but it is not. This was just a lapsus." from the draft agenda for the session]] . We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose that the Committee set the agenda for today's meeting, as you have received by reference. We're voting on the agenda. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I'm guessing the agenda is set. We move on to 43.A. of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the assembly of Members and Members, to the decision-making of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law amending and supplementing the laws on social protection of pre-eminences, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Act on social protection, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Act on the regulation on the regulation of the market and a bill on amendments and amendments to the Act on the application of the Act on the implementation of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the State. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 132nd meeting on 4 March 2022 that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection Benefits, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds should be examined in a simplified manner. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of 40 Members and Members, signed by Dr Mate T. Vatovci, requested the National Assembly to decide on those decisions by the colleges. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are therefore going to consider this requirement. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mihi Kordiš to present the request for all draft laws together.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. For the past two years, we have been able to monitor the total fragmentation and dismantling of institutions in this country. Of course, in the first place, the media are also repressive appliances such as the police, but neither has the system of social protection and protection of the poor against swings in the labour market carried it without consequences. This is how we have dealt with the government's anti-social reform once before the end of the current mandate, but we should continue with its extension. And watch out! Government anti-social reform number two, which was prepared at the Ministry of Labour under the tactics of Nova Slovenije's party in the National Assembly, did not find its way as a real government reform, but was put through a coalition party after a reduced procedure, that is, the parties to Nova Slovenije. We should be ringing all the alarm bells just in case of these procedural frauds. The National Assembly should say decisively, not in the procedural field, but in such changes and interventions to the legislation. Intervention into several laws is very clear as to how it is not some minor changes that would be justified by the reduced procedure, but rather a considerable intervention in the labour and social legislation corps, which requires efforts on the government side to sit down with all stakeholders, in the first place with organised workers, such as trade unions, to engage in social dialogue with them to agree on the solutions to be taken together as the National Assembly. None of this has happened, instead of the protocols and discussions that the government and the Ministry of Labour should have carried out, the New Slovenia party skipped all these democratic steps and brought its anti-social reform directly into the parliamentary bench after a reduced process. As soon as we look at the content, we can see why. In this anti-social reform, the government accounts with certain groups receiving financial social assistance and denies it. Social workers who have to work under specific circumstances with specific cases are denied autonomy to do so. We deal with the unemployed and force them to accept any work, no matter how poorly paid it is, no matter how legitimate it is, only on the title that they can survive. The other side of the same coin is the granting of social state scholarships to households coming from affluent environments. After what the government proposes, for example, children from the great family of Minister Cigler King would be entitled to state social scholarships. Since their father sits on a ministerial salary, we can imagine that they do not live in poverty. On the other hand, we have a whole bunch of students coming from poor families, working families who receive very low scholarships, with which they do not connect the beginning and the end of the month. Instead of studying, they are forced into various forms of student work, usually living with more than one basic student job. The set of problematic anti-social measures is surrounded by anti-Roma measures by juggling in social legislation. I think that both procedural and substantive reasons are strong enough to tell us how we cannot proceed with the reduced process of addressing anti-social reform. At the very least, a minimum of hygiene is that the National Assembly rejects the reduced procedure, and the set of legislation that is part of this anti-social reform is dealt with on a regular basis. In the same process, we also get some time for the proponents, but even if immediately, from the ministry they run, to carry out their talks and social dialogue with the representatives of the unionised workers, with whom we should talk, we have, after all, exactly this social dialogue and the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I inform you that the assembly will decide on the procedure for examining each bill individually. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits shall be considered in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Security Benefits shall be considered following a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. Procedural proposal Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	Before the vote, please take 10 minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	I'm adjourning the session, which we resume at 12.25 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 12.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the meeting. We therefore decide on the proposal for a decision, which reads: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Security Benefits is being considered following a reduced procedure. If this decision is not adopted, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 33. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that this proposal for a law will therefore be dealt with in a simplified manner. Here we go to the following decision, which reads: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act is dealt with in a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 33. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. We also decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 33. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before moving on to the first item of the agenda, I should just like to point out for the minutes that the agenda has been adopted as proposed, i.e. also for the second item of the agenda, because I have marked the preceding item before the vote as excluded, but it is not. It was just a lapsus. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 28 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the Minister's response. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. With regard to the request of Members to respond orally to the next meeting of the Assembly or to the proposal to discuss the answer to the question put forward at the next meeting of the Assembly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the annual programme of work of the National Assembly, this meeting of the Assembly is the last regular meeting of this meeting. The National Assembly will therefore only be able to carry out any oral request for an answer to an unanswered question or discussion on the answer to the question referred to in Article 58(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On this point today, the Minister of Finance mags apologized. Andrej Shircelj and Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucič from 2 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to Rule 249.a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which stipulates that "unresponsible questions and initiatives by the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall become irrelevant by the act of the new government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government." We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural proposal by Jerz Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. Let me first explain my procedural proposal. On the one hand, the President of the Government boasts high economic growth and low unemployment, which, of course, is entirely his thanks and, on the other hand, high inflation, the irritation of the energy sector is attributed to the global market. In response to the food irritation that's happening to us, we get the cynical statements of a guy, but you won't choose between ten kinds of croissants. He leaves the investigative committees of this National Assembly prematurely and does not attend [[advertising from the hall]] The court hearing, if you don't have time. On the other hand, he has time to spend hours on Twitter. On the one hand, it appears to us to be peace-loving. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Your Honor, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	On the other hand, militant rhetoric encourages an even greater conflict. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	Colleague Korce, please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	On the one hand, we are shown to be a humanitarian, and on the other hand, we know that he was building a political career only on the use of enemy rhetoric against refugees. And now I am moving on to my procedural proposal. These were just a few examples of how we could describe this in terms of calculus, cynicism, and duality. And since my question today would also mean the possibility for the President of the Government to give an answer, which would mean further manipulation, distortion of the truth and more confusion, the procedural proposal is that we cancel today's question on the basis of these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked as the first victory of the Helinčič Noblenit.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. First, I'll put the mask down because they don't wear masks in schools. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	No, my friend Jelinčič. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	We're worse than kindergarten, so we can calm down without it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	No, Comrade Jelinčič. Put the mask up!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	In view of the terrible crisis in Ukraine, many other aggressions within the Republic of Slovenia are forgotten. For example, it is first of all certain types of crime committed by certain people in the southeast of Slovenia, for example in Kočev, the meeting of these residential blocks from which Slovenians flee, then in Šentjernej the beating in schools and the aggressive beating of Slovenian students, in New Town more such extreme cases when children walk with guns, now with scary ones, and more than 20% of these residents do not even finish primary school. What are you going to do, President, about that? Another aggressive issue is the defamation of Slovenian culture, heritage, customs, values and beliefs in the Slovenian space. It is called Albania, especially in certain cities: Celje, Velenje, Slovenska Bistrica, Kranj. I must say, even those Albanians who moved in the time of Yugoslavia [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	Comrade Jelinčič, no xenophobic inserts.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	They do not want these aggressive and violent enclaves that cause the Slovenians to move out of these places. [[…]] The third issue is the enforcement of certain, I would say, social views in primary schools, where, in fact, aggressive advertising of LGBT's deviant sexual practices in primary schools [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	My friend Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Mr. Prime Minister: How do you plan to solve these three terrible problems that cause the destruction of Slovenia, the destruction of our cultural heritage, the removal of our customs from classical Slovenian and European values? In what way will you plague the tides of these alien residents?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	Comrade Jelinčič, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Because the Albanianisation of Slovenia is happening, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	My friend Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	The question is also: Will you include solutions to these problems in your programs, or will you avoid them? It is true that the moments before the end of the mandate are short, but I think that these issues need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Comrade Jelinčič, I gave you a reminder. In this house we won't allow any xenophobia, homophobia, and, I'll say, similar [[advertising from the hall]] similar hostility. Every question can be posed in a dignified manner, and, finally, our adopted code reminds us that a Member must be dignified, respectful, patient and non-discriminatory. I hope that was clear. I will give the word to the President of the Government to answer, but of course, according to what I just said, if not, I will give another warning and take away the words and we will go to the next question of the mission. Procedural proposal, colleague Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Mr President, I propose that the Prime Minister does not respond at all because this was a set of racist statements. The common denominator is racism, but in this denominator it hides exactly what you yourself stated: xenophobia, homophobia and so on. In short, I don't think the National Assembly really has room for this kind of hate speech that we just heard. And this was not really any question, so I think that you are simply going forward on the agenda and that the Prime Minister is not responding to something like this, because there is no answer at all, unless the Prime Minister himself agrees to this discourse and will use this discourse himself. If that happens, please stop such an exercise because it is not worthy of this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	That's right. I completely agree with you. As far as the debate on crime in primary schools is concerned, I think it is admissible and that we can touch it completely freely. As for the other matters and the inter-species exposure of certain groups of people, I don't think that's acceptable, and I won't allow that. I now give the floor to the President of the Government to answer this question, of course in accordance with what I have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Yes, thank you very much. Thank you for all three questions. While language is not appropriate, these are questions about the problems people are experiencing. When it comes to the Roma problem, especially in the south-eastern part of Slovenia, we have done a lot of work in spite of the epidemic in this mandate. A special government group has been set up to deal with very specific cases. I must say, there has been some success. When it comes to the number of crimes related to this, this decreased by about 15 or 18 percent throughout the region. In the Municipality of Kočevje, where this was the most in 2020, by 30%. It is said that there have been some successes, but it is important to be aware that, to a large extent, what has been done so far, we are addressing only the consequences and the causes are not sufficiently addressed. The key reason that in some parts of Slovenia there are more criminal acts in the Roma population is that the process of socialisation is usually disrupted at the very beginning. If I am very specific, some families simply do not send children to primary school, although this is compulsory, but they receive all social benefits and transfers and so on. Here at some point we will have to make a decision and tie it up and take this initial phase of socialisation seriously, otherwise we will deal with these problems forever and in some way enable them ourselves. So we still have this step ahead of us. To successfully tackle the situation in some other parts of Slovenia, where they have taken it more seriously, let's say in Prekmurje, and there are significantly fewer of these problems. When it comes to immigration and concentration of those who move to specific points in Slovenia, it must first be said that we are part of this problem successfully or that you have solved it by adopting a law or by amending a law that makes it impossible to register at one address to dozens or hundreds of persons on 30 square meters. This has partly helped to stifle the situation and also to exploit our relatively rich social network for speculation and to pay contributions to people who are not here at all. However, it must also be said that most of these people, regardless of their nationality, who come to Slovenia, come because they are invited by Slovenian companies and the Slovenian economy. There is a shortage of labour and companies are fighting to get it. And they are very complaining that the procedures for obtaining work visas are long and so on. You have to be aware of that here. This isn't some refugee wave that came from somewhere where the war is going on, and then it burdens our public finances and so on. Unfortunately, this wave is coming from one side and we will be doing a lot of work in the coming weeks and months. However, when it comes to labour migration, economic migration, it is mainly organised by the Slovenian economy because of the lack of labour and also because a few of the 10,000 unemployed we have in Slovenia do not want to do all the work. It's just something you have to deal with, too. Slovenia has risen in the income class to a group where many prefer to be unemployed and receive unemployment compensation rather than to take on each job, so companies are looking for others.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr President, I am pleased that you have come to the opposite side of the Slovenians, as well as some colleagues from that side.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	Comrade Jelinčič, once again, I will give you a reminder and take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Some advocate the promotion of crime, the destruction of Slovenia, the promotion of sexual deviantism, but we are against it in the Slovenian National Party. We are for the preservation of our people. And we will always represent these principles and reflect on them. President, you said you were coming. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	My friend Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Foreigners invited entrepreneurs. [[…]] Yeah, to some extent it's true. But then it happens that, according to that family reunion, families come to the name of this particular person of the whole family. And these families are on the social front, on the burden of Slovenian social services. It can't be like this anymore. This needs to be fixed. For example, it still happens that there is a long - term employee in Žalec who gives permits to stay for more than ten people at one address. In short, there is a need to make one order, one end, to call on the responsibility of certain people, which in some cases has happened, but in many cases not. Above all, no one has the right to introduce small children in primary school into some deviant European sexual practices. It's forbidden. And yet, despite the fact that this is prohibited by law, as is forbidden paedophilia, some still do. Will you also make order in this area and ask the Minister of Education to delete these matters from school curricula?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Yes, on this last question, I must say that in recent years in Slovenia, unfortunately, we have actually observed a practice which is contrary to very clear legal and constitutional arrangements. The Slovenian Constitution states that it is an exclusive right of parents to decide on the moral upbringing of children. This right was violated in certain cases which were publicly known and so on, even in the Slovenian school system, and the competent institutions did not act. So I have to agree with this, but this is not a problem of legislation or constitutional regulation. This is perfectly clear, and is also in line with the European Charter of Human Rights, which states exactly the same thing. The problem is that some institutions did not react when it was obvious that this was violated. This will have to be done in the future. As far as caring for Slovenian cultural, identity, identity, self-reliance was concerned, in the mandate of this government, in the budgets that you have adopted here, for the Slovenian culture devoted significantly more money than before, despite the epidemic and such costs, even when it comes to the memory of the great Slovenian culture or, if you wish, Slovenian nationality. Plečnik's year, which has been proclaimed this year, is not only such a formal reflection of this relationship, we have also succeeded in joining Plečnik's heritage in Ljubljana on the list of Unesco's cultural heritage. Last year was the year of Josip Jurčič, the first Slovenian novelist and officer. To a large extent, we were able to revive the memory of his work, which was very unilaterally shown in the past and concentrated on only one aspect of his work. He is also a beginner of modern Slovenian journalism and journalism, on some foundations that we still miss today. So much has been done at that time, and it could still be listed, and there is no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you so much for those answers. However, much more should be discussed on all the three segments that I have highlighted. With regard to poets and writers, it might be reasonable to recall John the Fortress, for which I fear that some leftist ladies and ladies will demand that it be removed from the Slovenian cultural space because of its works. I think it makes sense to discuss this matter openly, without the pressure of the President of the National Assembly or certain Members who do not wish to discuss these matters, but to discuss these matters honestly. Only with an open discussion will we be able to come to a solution, not by worshiping European virgins. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate on this matter in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The following question will be asked by Janja Slug to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	The prices of energy in Slovenia, as well as elsewhere, have been rising for several months, as a matter of fact since September. And just as since September, the government has not taken any systemic measures to infect them. She decided, of course, that she would distribute some pre-election candy just before the elections, and they had, as we discussed together, come too late, not all of them needed, and, on the other hand, the funds were given to those who did not really need them. Money for these pre-election mints was drawn from the climate fund by the government and taken by the electricity network operators, that is, from exactly where long-term sustainability should be taken. As always, in this case the government has completely ignored all the warnings of the profession, all the suggestions of the profession. We are witnessing a surge in fuel prices, which is already reflected in the rise in food prices and all other goods. But the government says it's monitoring the situation. He's watching, but he's not taking action. Minister Resteršek vehemently emphasises that the government is ready to intervene with the release of stocks and price restrictions. Ready, but not action. You, Prime Minister, say yourself that there will be no more 10 different croissants on Slovenian tables, but we will not be hungry. I expect you to start talking to people again about the loaves of bread in dumpsters like years ago, and I wonder what world you live in. Are you really so separated from the reality in which many people in our country live that you think you can afford such statements? Let me remind you, in 2008 the prices of oil in global markets were almost the same, a few cents are the difference today, but the price of a litre of gasoline was 1.2 euros, today is 1.56 and tomorrow's forecast is a 10% increase. The price of petrol is more than 60 per cent of the charges that could be applied by the government responsible. However, this government does not act. She's on her way. I ask for a very specific answer, because people deserve to have real and timely information: When will this government finally move and begin, instead of monitoring the situation, to take systemic measures to alleviate energy and other well-being in Slovenia, which, of course, is felt by those with the lowest income this time?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have heard many questions, but we have not heard any suggestions. I would really like to hear what systemic action we should take. Systemic action. Systemic measures are those that resolve a situation in the long run. As far as I know, we don't have oil wells in Slovenia waiting for us to start pumping them. If we had that, maybe we could talk about it. It is necessary to know what systemic measures are and what intervention measures are. Intervention measures shall be taken at this time. The scope of these measures was determined by the European Commission two months ago, and the Slovenian Government and the National Assembly adopted these measures recently. I have also not met anyone who would return the solidarity allowance to alleviate energy dearness. So I don't know anyone who doesn't need it. If anyone knows him, show him to me, we'll be very happy if he directs him back to the budget. The items received by electricity customers during this time of the last month are significantly lower. So to say that the government has done nothing and that nothing is known — it is known to everyone because we have frozen the payment of the network and some other benefits and therefore the cost for people is significantly lower. It's gonna be a while. When it comes to oil prices, where panic occurred at Slovenian pumps last week and there was six times more sales in one day not to say consumption as in normal times, it is necessary to say that for the first time, if such panic is caused, the stock will never be enough, because it is impossible to fill the tanks more than they hold. Once again, there's no need for panic. There's enough oil derivatives in the world. There are current disturbances due to Russian aggression against Ukraine, but Russian oil on global markets represents 12% of the supply, which can be replaced very quickly and is practically already being done at source. Many measures have been taken within the European framework, including national measures to diversify. The European Union is slightly more exposed to supplies from Russia when it comes to oil derivatives and refineries, which are not for every oil and so on, but this exposure is still there around a quarter and has decreased significantly in those hours, as we have all focused on providing additional resources. Indeed, we may have a problem in Slovenia that will require intervention for a slightly longer time, because some of the biggest oil suppliers in Slovenia, although we have warned them for almost one year to diversify resources, signed contracts for this year mainly for Russian oil, because some traditions die hard and work and at this point it is a little harder to get at the same price or impossible to get oil from elsewhere at the same price. But she'll come. Slovenia has sufficient stock in case these supplies were significantly disrupted. We will also prevent speculation on the market. Slovenia has a law on price regulation in cases where they can grow irrespective of economic conditions. Today, the government will adopt a regulation to determine the highest prices for oil derivatives in pumps.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Fellow Servant, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	First of all, about the energy supplement. No, no one's ever returned it because no one's ever had it. No one's ever had one. Why? Because they were actually buying votes and they were going to get it right before the elections on April 15th. That's why. Second thing. Nobody talked about gas and oil shortages, nobody. I was talking about it being too expensive. And if you're talking about having reserves now, these reserves don't help people who are already paying 15 euros for a tank of gas after two months. If you're waiting and saying we have nothing to do, nothing helps. And if you come to the National Assembly to get suggestions here, of course I can tell you. Other countries have already acted. For example, France has earmarked EUR 2 billion for these purposes when consumers are actually paying lower prices at pumps and the difference will be paid by the State. That's what France did. The Netherlands has taken action by reducing taxes on petrol and diesel as well as by further reducing VAT on electricity and gas. That's what the Netherlands did. And our government is watching. So once again, I ask you: What, in particular, will you do to make people survive this precious, already reflected in food prices and in other areas?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	France — How much? 35 times the size of Slovenia. By comparing their 2 billion with what we have set out to alleviate energy well-being, we are high above the French. High above the French. We've already dropped excise duties at the lowest possible point. The excise duty in Slovenia is at the lowest level. When it came to burning oil because the price was a problem in the heating season, we froze the margins virtually at the lowest possible rate. We'll intervene in the supply reserves when the derivatives run out. That's why they're stores. You can't use the supply reserves to influence prices on the market. Here is the European regulation, and the European Commission's consent is required for all reserves under 90 days. Here are some rules. However, we will do so, and the European Commission will also approve this, we have talked a lot in the last days about if this is necessary. As regards retail prices, as said, from now on or from tomorrow they will be regulated, following some average prices in the last seven days, calculated on the basis of the European methodology. Look at the small prices in neighbouring countries, they are somewhat lower and they are significantly higher in Italy and Austria. With us they will not be higher, but we cannot set a price that will be significantly lower than the neighbouring countries, because then all the pumps in the border band will be suffocated or occupied with foreigners and Slovenians will not be able to refuel. There is a need for a balanced, measured measure. And, as has already been said, the official material for regulating prices is in the process and will be adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Fellow Servant, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Yes, of course, I will, the President, propose a debate. You know why? Because when the Prime Minister tells people, look at the prices in neighbouring countries, these people can answer him, look at the salaries in neighbouring countries. And because I see that the President of the Government has absolutely no idea and absolutely no real insight into what people are meeting today at all these elevations, that we are talking about that the rising prices of mineral fertilisers are fourfold, that, of course, all of this is reflected then in the price of food, that some countries have banned exports, that will again turn into a price rise with us, that prices go up in the sky and that never before in the history of Slovenia, when the price of food has risen, then it did not fall back after this crisis, but the price of food has always increased more than anything else. And this is where people are most affected. I know you don't have a real picture, so you're nodding now. But what I'm saying is exactly what I'm saying. And the economy already warns that, in addition to the price of cereals, meat prices will rise in addition to the basic raw materials, namely pork, beef and, above all, poultry, which is most dependent on what I am talking about all the time. And of course the government has to act, it has to act, and it has to act quickly. Everything that's happening now hasn't happened this morning. And if you need ideas about what to do and how to do it, I believe that we will be able to offer many of them to you in the debates in this house. Therefore, of course, President, I propose that we hold a thorough debate on this and give this government an idea of how and how to act.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. As the last question to the President of the Government will be posed by a mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! As of 24 February, the world is no longer as it was, Russia's brutal attack on the independent country of Ukraine, which has resisted it, has changed the image of Europe, the awareness of security and the conduct of our daily lives, and will have an impact on it for a long time. What is happening today is when Russia demolishes civilian facilities when it ferrets with nuclear weapons, when it uses prohibited weapons, such as cluster bombs and thermobaric warheads, against civilians, all of this is a reflection of weakness, but not of weakness. Weakness, which has been the product of the resistance, the legitimate and legal resistance of Ukraine, where just since the beginning of the war, 220 thousand men have returned to fight capable men. A nation like that, you can't beat it. Russia's assessment was completely flawed. They were counting on winning in two days. Now they're in a jam and they're continuing their work, which is causing an incomprehensible humanitarian disaster. According to the data published today, only Poland has accepted more than a million 700 000 refugees from Ukraine, Hungary about 300 000, the other countries of Visegrad and many other countries, in solidarity. That's certainly good. It is also good that this revived NATO, that it revived the European Union, that it revived it to some extent, perhaps it did not go completely into the brussels bubble, because two days ago they voted sanctions against Poland and Hungary, which is a story for themselves. But what is a fundamental issue – it is security, it is the security of all of us. Slovenia has recently been measured as the safest country in Europe, one of the safest countries in the world. These circumstances, of course, change our lives and rightly, the question is: How are we at home, in the European Union and, of course, wider beyond its borders ready to change security, energy and political changes after the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine? How will we maintain this value of security? How will we continue to build a secure Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you so much for asking. We can provide security in a framework of two ways; by strengthening our own security potentials, resilience and defence power on the one hand and by trying to reduce the security risks that come from the environment. Now we're both working. As far as the first framework is concerned, it must be said that our security and defence system has not only been neglected in recent mandates, but has been destroyed by financial undernutrition. You may recall the statements made by the President of the country when they reported to him about the state of the Slovenian Army and readiness in recent years, when he has always said that the situation is such that the military is not prepared to defend the country. Are you aware of that? Then someone might have said, "Well, it doesn't matter because the sun is shining, it's never going to rain." Now that there's thunder in the area, we're probably just aware of how tragic that assessment sounded. In the last two years, we have done a great deal to remedy this situation, including the law that was passed here. But overnight, it's impossible to restore something that had collapsed a long time ago. And that's one of our problems. Given that even now, I will say, the most pacifist countries in Europe are substantially increasing defence spending, it is quite clear what we will be doing in the coming years. How high this will go, however, depends on what will happen in Ukraine in the coming weeks. What you said about the world changing on February 24th is true. The world has changed, only we haven't figured it out yet. The wheels are still spinning like the snow hasn't fallen yet. And there are a lot of behaviors, assessments and behaviors that are too short for the situation that is taking place in our neighborhood. Those of us who have been monitoring calvary in the Balkan wars 25 and more years ago, we see this comparison exactly, for example, in parts of Bosnia and what is now happening in Ukraine. It's not just about war and aggression, it's about ethnic cleansing of the Black Sea coastline. There are cities that are bigger than Ljubljana, hundreds of thousands of people trying to escape. When we sum up all these trends, it is clear that if this aggression does not stop, we will not talk about two or three million refugees within a month, but about ten or fifteen million, which is ten times the number that Europe has dealt with since the war in Syria. Far from the greatest human tragedy since World War II in Europe. And that's what we see coming. So that whatever anyone can do to stop this aggression, sooner it will stop, and sooner all these consequences will begin to diminish, especially severe suffering and death, but it must do so. But as we say, the world has changed, but we haven't changed enough to understand it. And some of the steps are quite slow, although on the other hand there has been a surprising single reaction in many areas, up to 141 votes in favour of condemning aggression in the General Assembly of the United Nations, which is a huge surprise, but there are signs that the world will be sufficiently placed on its feet and put a stop to this aggression before it actually reaches catastrophic proportions for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Comrade Grimes, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you. Once again, look, what is happening in Ukraine is unfortunately a story that can take quite some time. This will require exceptional security, as well as other economic, social efforts on the part of all those affected by this war. And it must be said that, due to the sanctions imposed, sanctions are always twofold, and they are the only tools or weapons we currently have. We would like to see more consensus in this area. If there is a value in which we would like to have more consensus, it is certainly a security value. When you proposed, weeks ago, that Ukraine, together with Polish President Morawiecki, should be accepted after the attack, following a rapid procedure into the European Union, there was even a little ridicule at the beginning. In one week, this became a common policy of the whole of the European Union, a policy of consensus, which we can be extremely proud of. But this is just the first step. The question that every citizen must ask himself is: What can we all do together to bring the legal order back as soon as possible, to make it as easy as possible for everyone who is its direct victims, especially here I think of refugees, and of course what more we can do and will do in the coming weeks and months for the security of Slovenia, in order to preserve that fundamental value, so that we can continue, as I said, to build a secure Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	What is in our power and our powers, especially national ones, of course we will do. But there are a lot of things that we don't have any influence on. But we see very clearly how things are going to happen, because we were in a very similar situation ourselves. When Slovenia was attacked in 1991, the war lasted as long as we did not stop, block, and when they sent another wave, they also stopped the second wave of aggression by the Yugoslav Army. It was only then that negotiations took place in Briony and later the decision to withdraw the Yugoslav Army from Slovenia. And they had the same illusion that Slovenia would be in some, I'll say, police-military action to pacify or denacify, and we heard it then, in one day, not even in two days. And, of course, everything was ready for the kind of action they were talking about. Since this did not happen and we defended ourselves, the war ended and we won and Slovenia conquered itself. In Ukraine, the war will end when Ukraine alone is strong enough, with all the help it receives to stop the crackdown on Russian troops. Only then will serious negotiations begin, only then will this tremendous wave of suffering and refugees be stopped. That's why we have to do everything we can to help them make this happen. They are not fighting for themselves right now, they are actually fighting for the security and well-being of all of Europe. Because if Russia occupies Ukraine, which has the fourth richest natural resources in the world, fourth, from uranium, energy to food, fertile land for 600 million people, then Russia will move on, some new iron curtain will be established, with all the security and economic consequences that we can imagine. When you mention the European Union, Ukraine has support as regards the European perspective, but unfortunately some still insist on some long procedures to grant candidate status, which is completely illogical, incomprehensible and harmful. We're working on getting rid of these obstacles, too. Many European colleagues talk a lot about European values and are now all surprised that they do exist and defend themselves. However, they are currently defending themselves in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Defense of Magi. Matthew Tonin will answer Micah Kordiš's question regarding the conclusion of implementing acts for the purchase of Boxer vehicles. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	Dear President, thank you very much. To begin with, let me say that Slovenia's goal as well as the entire Alliance is then peace and that we are doing everything we can to bring the war to an end in Ukraine as soon as possible. We're looking for all possible ways to stop this Putin military machine. For example, when there comes a question about our armored men from the Left, that, for example, Luke Moon 20 January 2022 was at the meeting that we had on the N1 portal, I quote: "The security situation, that is, what is happening in Ukraine, I read as follows: Putin because of the internal political conditions of muscle tension in front of the West, West. It then uses this to create an atmosphere of fear and to raise defence budgets. In Levika, they feel that the situation in Ukraine does not have the potential to grow into a serious war, and it has even less potential to influence Slovenia.” This was said in January of this year. The left one couldn't have been more wrong. We have a war of great proportions and even more, this war also has a tremendous impact on Slovenia, through the refugee crisis and through rising energy prices and other living needs. When Member Kordish repeatedly teaches how unnecessary armor is, it is something similar to what the following would say. Because they are among the soldiers of the victims, it is completely pointless that they wear helmets and bulletproof vests, because this simply does not help them to survive, according to Ambassador Kordiš. If I'm even more sarcastic, I'd say that Levica wants our soldiers and the Slovenian army to come back in Napoleon's time when soldiers were walking on foot, but not today when they're moving, yes, it is, in armored vehicles. So the answer to the question is why we need armored vehicles in order to ensure the greatest possible security for our soldiers, which we provide to them everywhere, at home and abroad, where our soldiers provide peace and security. Currently, they are present in the largest numbers in Kosovo, Latvia, and then we can continue in Bosnia and so on. And Slovenia is a co-responsible member of the international community, which is responsible for ensuring peace and security. And as a country responsible, we must ensure the highest safety standards for our soldiers when we send them around the world to ensure peace and security. Why are we buying Boxer vehicles? Because they're the best vehicles on the market. Many countries have done detailed research, including the United Kingdom, and after several years they have concluded that this is the best vehicle, similar to Germany, the Netherlands. And if this is good for Britain, Germany and the Netherlands, I believe it's good for Slovenia too. I would like the Constitutional Court to decide in accordance with the legal options and deadlines provided for. If the Constitutional Court adheres to the laws and regulations, then there is no possibility that the signature of such a contract will stop because things are so far-reaching that the contract will be signed in April at the latest. I can also say that negotiations on the price of so many manipulations are already under way at this time. This price is now lower than that discussed and discussed by the Left after the initial negotiations for a quarter. So they're talking about 400 million, after the first initial negotiations, we're definitely closer to 300 million than 400. In short, I believe that this project will successfully lead to the end and thereby significantly increase the safety of our soldiers and also provide greater defence capabilities for the Republic of Slovenia. In these circumstances, in which we are now in a position to do what Leviathan is doing, it is irresponsible that we have lost at least one year of legal manoeuvre, because if we did not do what they are doing, we could have signed this contract a year ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	Comrade Kordish, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since joining the National Assembly in 2014, I have been constantly asking the question of who is militarily threatening us to buy weapons and the answer that I have not received in many years, and finally in the last month it has been on the horizon. Our own government, which would drag us into World War III, threatens us exclusively. Thus we can also interpret the beginning of the reply of Minister Tonin, who began with the Ukrainian crisis and the presentation of the NATO Pact as a guarantee of some security. It is not exactly the NATO Pact that is very deeply involved in the escalation of the situation in Eastern Europe and especially in Ukraine. And all of this is, in fact, almost marginally important when we come to the question of buying Boxer 8x8. Why? Because these armored men never bought to defend their homeland. They are bought for the organization of the Slovenian Army as an expedition corps of the Nato Pact, far, far beyond the borders of our country, even 10,000 kilometers away, not to ensure global peace and stability. If there were any truth to such claims, then diplomats would be sent to Ukraine, not weapons. These armoured personnel are purchased exclusively for the feeding of military industrial complexes of leading NATO Member States and for the further subjugation of the Slovenian Army to the needs of these leading members and their imperial appetites. That is why, of course, we continue to oppose the purchase of weapons with all the Krills in Levica. And as the Ukrainian crisis shows us not far from our borders, the only way forward for this world into the 21st century is demilitarisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	At one of the last encounters we had with the Member of the month, he said something like this: We must find a solution to the Ukrainian crisis at the table, and we must be very careful about sanctions against Putin, so that we don't upset him, so that he doesn't cause any unpredictable things. These things are really naive, or I can't say. Putin can't hear words, he can't hear requests from presidents of states like France or chancellors, like Scholz in Germany, doesn't give much. There's been a lot of calls, and it hasn't changed, I'm sorry, nothing. So the solution to the table they are talking about in Levica will come only when Putin’s soldiers find out that they can no longer make progress on the ground because of the resistance and defence of the Ukrainian people. Second thing, we buy armor for the needs of domestic defence and our guarantee of peace and security abroad. Tell me, who else are our soldiers going to date? At the present time and within the current framework, soldiers are transported in armoured vehicles. Unless it's the point of the Left that we go back to World War II when they were riding on trucks with saucers or going back even further to the time of Napoleon's army when they were walking on foot. Unfortunately, the standard is such or fortunately the standard is that they are transported in armoured vehicles to ensure that they have as much survival as possible. Regarding the very involvement of the Slovenian defence industry, let me say that Rheinmetal, which is also one of the owners of the boxers company, has dealt with the Slovenian industry in the past approximately one year for 45 million euros a year. So the Slovenian defence industry and other industries are working in depth with the company in which Slovenia will purchase these armoured personnel. Surely we will do everything in our power. And here again, I sincerely thank all the Members who in these times have, over the past two years, been able to have the courage to create a legal basis for us to go to the modernisation of the Slovenian Army at all. Only in the years to come will it prove how important the decision has been. So once again, my sincere thanks to all the Members who have endured this pressure and have ensured that the Slovenian Army is modernising rapidly.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. My friend Kordish would like a word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you. I make a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the response to Boxer 8x8 purchases for EUR 412 million by Minister Tonin. Why do I demand this general debate? Because we did not hear much about the actual response in Minister Tonin's statements about the implementing acts and the follow-up to the purchase of armoured personnel, he insisted and continued with his propaganda flossules. He also served with a very deep geopolitical ignorance and woe to the state, which has in place a minister of defence someone who is only interested in geopolitics as an excuse to pressure its own citizens and citizens across the throat of millions of euros in arms purchases, which are not even there intended to defend the homeland, but only the occupation of foreign territory within the mission of the Nato Pact. It is no surprise, therefore, that the current government strongly opposes the consultation of arms acquisitions with the people at the referendum, as proposed in Levica. The referendum is trying to ban people for the second time. For the first time, it was banned when the 780m-euro arms law was passed, where we collected 30,000 signatures with citizens and citizens only within a week. In the new they are trying to ban it right now when our request is sitting in the Constitutional Court because we want to complete the process of purchasing armoured persons by means of a referendum action and a democratic majority so that these armoured persons are simply not procured. All that is related to this story of armoured personnel is the storage of foreign military complexes at the expense of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and these 400 million euros are badly needed by armoured personnel at home. He needs the care of the elderly, where there are 12,000 people waiting in the beds in the homes. It is needed by young people who cannot go to their homes; rents fly to the sky; and for the more than 30,000 apartments they need, the state has no money. We certainly need it all together as a community in the fight against climate change, in order to reduce emissions, to decarbonise energy and to move to sustainable mobility, even railways will not be set up alone instead of cars, including the euro now needed by Minister Tonin and the current government of Janez Janša with a shovel to throw into international weapons. These are still powerful reasons why the National Assembly should speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Restoršek will answer Sam Bevk's question regarding the rehabilitation of mining damage and degraded environment in the city of Idrija and the management of the waste dumps loaded with mercury. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Member Just Bevk, respectable National Assembly! Thank you for asking. You have also rightly addressed the question to a colleague of Minister Viszak, who has already answered you at the January meeting, I think that there are important matters of interest to you. Therefore, the Ministry of the Environment and Space, in accordance with its competences, shall regularly monitor the situation in closed mining facilities and surrounding areas. They have also prepared a report and will also draw up a plan for the rehabilitation of the areas to be further developed. However, MGRT entered from the other side, in 2011, after the destruction of the mine, the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija was established. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, together with the Ministry of Culture, provides funding for this centre, namely, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology spends 490 000 euros annually, almost half a million euros per year. These funds shall finance all necessary parts of monitoring and maintenance and 9,5 employees. This also finances the maintenance of mine trenches and ensures the safety of the city of Idria. Idria with its surroundings is also developing well with the help of the country. With regard to the rehabilitation of the degraded environment, I agree and advocate that this should be resolved at a systemic level. Activities under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space will certainly contribute to further improving the situation. However, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is ready to cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Nevertheless, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer. I was not satisfied with the government's response, either, which I received at my parliamentary initiative on the rehabilitation of mining damage and the degraded environment in the city of Idria and the management of the waste dumps loaded with mercury. In fact, mining damage is only recovered on paper. A novelty of this project is needed. The answer that there is no longer a mine as a business entity and that, therefore, there is no title for the payment of mining damage, as the Government has told me, is rather cynical. In order for the government to act only in the event of natural disasters and unexpected extraordinary events, it is nice to say that we are being carried away. For this is how the Government answered these same questions that I then addressed to both ministers because of the lack of response. I also take this opportunity to reiterate the call for all competent ministers to sit down with the local community and to listen together to solve this problem, as both ministers, Mag, have already said, have already said. Visjak and today Mr. Restoring. However, since I think it would be useful to have a discussion, I propose that the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure be taken into account and that this should, of course, be carried out at one of the next meetings, if it is possible to do so before the elections, this debate will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Of course, it will be possible if a request for an extraordinary meeting is made, otherwise not. Your request will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Nice greetings, respectable minister, respectable colleagues, colleagues! I will ask a question from the Member States, which touches on the ecological issue. In the last few weeks and days, the question in the field of former Keramix, later Martexa, was very raised, this is a company that produced tiles in the Volčje Draga area in Goriška. For the last few years, according to some data since 2018, according to some others since 2019, in the field of former Martex, which is now in bankruptcy, dangerous substances, hazardous wastes, which are certainly occurring in this area, as in some other locations in Šempetr, Dolenjska and Gorenjska, have emerged as, most likely, a stereotype of how mafia activities are actually being misused in order to exploit uninhabited areas or decaying objects or bankruptcy facilities in order to settle hazardous waste on them. This case was already exposed in Italian Moš a few months ago, next to the Italian Gorica, 10 metres from the Slovenian border where these wastes burned. In fact, the whole area had to be closed because it was extremely dangerous for the surrounding area. Here we are talking about very similar waste in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which seems to have come to the Republic of Slovenia with the participation of the Italian mafia in order to move to Serbia later. But it seems that the original purpose is to simply trap these wastes in our country. This is about the fact that an inventory is to be carried out in 2020. It is a few thousand bags, multiton bags containing ground plastic, lying under a roof where solar cells are set, which additionally exposes the area of extreme danger. This is a relatively urban centre, near the Vipava River with its watercourses, which would result in a real ecological disaster. An old vehicle burned down near this building a few days ago. Goric and environmental firefighters have prevented the worst. Dear Minister: What will the state do about it? How will we solve such problems? How is it possible that we have known for at least three years about the disposal of such dangerous data, and the Republic of Slovenia has not yet found a way to prevent such cases from happening in our country? As it is said, it is not the only case, it is a whole series of such cases that do not only touch Gorizka. How will the country deal with this problem, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. It would be better what the state has already done, not what will happen, because we have already acted. The environmental inspectorate is already in charge of the inspection process. In this case, an inspection decision was also issued. The findings are as follows. Isberg is a tenant of the premises of Martex in bankruptcy in Volča Draga. By the way, the new Environmental Protection Act, which I hope to adopt at this meeting, introduces additional restrictions so that everyone who processes waste can do so on their own land, not on their own land. In this case, it is a tenant and it also raises quite a number of problems. So, as I said, this company Isberg in rented premises stores 2 thousand 300 tons of mixed plastic and rubber mixed with pieces of metal in jumbo bags. In the context of the procedure in question, monitoring of compliance with the environmental permit was also carried out, as the company has an environmental permit and is included in the records of persons carrying out the treatment of waste, but at another location, that is to say Field 1, Šempeter pri Gorica. Isberg was also determined in 2021 by an inspection decision to ensure the processing of these circuses by 2 000 300 tonnes of various waste mixtures stored in these jumbo bags at the address of Volča Draga, by giving them to a collector, a processor, selling them to a trader or sending them to another Member State for treatment, and by submitting to the Ministry a notification of the definitive termination of the operation of the waste treatment plant in the storage of non-hazardous waste in Hall 6 of the AKB complex at Field 1, Šempeter pri Gorica. The undertaking failed to comply with these obligations following the decision and therefore an application was submitted to ARSO to delete this company from the records of the waste handlers. On the basis of an inspection, the Ministry of Environment and Space has initiated a decision-making procedure to terminate the above environmental authorisation granted to this company Isberg. The Ministry notes as well as the Inspectorate that the company has not carried out the inspection decision, since neither the Ministry nor the Agency has notified the definitive termination of the operation of the plant. In view of the fact that the inspection decision has established that the device has ceased to operate, the Ministry of the Interior has already introduced a decision-making procedure for the termination of the environmental licence for Isberg, which is not yet legally binding. As regards storage waste in Volča Draga, a decision on the authorisation of enforcement has already been issued. The following was an estimate of the costs for the disposal of waste and a decision was issued in the course of the proceedings of the debtor in early February to cover the estimated costs of this administrative execution. In the event of a breach of the procedure after the provision of funds, this enforcement procedure will continue until the decision is implemented. Also, a suspicion of a criminal offence involving illegal shipments of waste brought from Italy to Serbia has been raised before the competent authority and is unfortunately currently being stored in Slovenia at the Martexa site in Volča Draga.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Comrade German, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. This case is extremely important so that these practices do not continue anywhere in our country. That is why, of course, I welcome your efforts, but it is unusual that virtually today we do not have an inventory of the current situation on the ground. So I expect the inspector to count again the quantities of all the bags left there with the waste material. What's in your eyes is the responsibility of the bankruptcy manager. What will be in your eyes is the ingenuity of a person who should keep an eye on an object that is expected to be the subject of a public auction in those days. In this case, the DUTB should conduct a public auction, and I think it would be a reference price of 5 million. On the other hand, the estimated cleaning costs, the revitalisation of the area amounting to EUR 1 million, are emerging. Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in your opinion: What's the manager's responsibility? I know that you are not responsible for this area, but as a competent ministry, I ask you what the responsibility of the bankruptcy manager may be, that this situation has occurred, not only in this location, but also in some others, you mentioned ABK in Šempeter. I also want to know: What will be the cost of rehabilitating this area? Who's going to be carrying the cost of rehabilitating this area? You must be the Municipality of Renče - Vogrsko cannot afford such costs and certainly an example of the disposal of mud in nature six months ago and more learning that the Republic of Slovenia must systematically prepare and eliminate such anomalies that are happening. I'm sure it's Mafia business here. I think it's obvious, so the state needs to react urgently and find a way. Because an extremely important component of time is when all these flammable wastes will be removed from this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much for this additional question. What is systematically necessary to ensure that such cases do not occur, I have already mentioned. Very often — even in the case of the Reserve and the municipal mud there — this has happened — the tenant in the premises of an owner who leased him these premises, stored them, processed them, or otherwise treated the waste. And of course, such a tenant does not, in fact, respond with any real estate. In the new Environmental Protection Act, we commit all such environmental licence holders to be landowners, as well as adequate security or insurance. This means that certain safety is ensured in advance so that such anomalies do not occur. For today, the tenant, even in some of the premises of one company that is bankrupt, does not actually bear any liability, unless the contract with the lessor, this is with this company in bankruptcy, determines any special remuneration. I doubt it, but it is also in this sense the responsibility of the bankruptcy manager, who has given this property, to violate this contract. There is clearly a violation if the inspection decision is not complied with and, as a result, its responsibility or its responsibilities in this case is questionable. But as I mentioned, it will be crucial that money is recovered from the one that causes the environmental burden. In the second row, it is the owner of this particular facility. However, the state will not allow the wound to remain in the space, in the environment, because of, as you say, even the mafia behaviour of these stakeholders, but, as in other cases, we will ensure that the environment is saved and that the responsible pay the damage and costs incurred by the state's rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Don't you? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. The next question will be asked by Boris Doblekar, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, hello! During a longer period, and even now, at a time when we were already on the way to passing the Income Act and we were very pleased to adopt it – almost a majority or part of the coalition Members or coalition Members – I am getting a lot of questions about student services or the earnings of students and students who are doing this temporary or occasional work. I don't know, maybe it's a lack of knowledge or knowledge about how these things are going on, which is why students and students ask. In fact, the main problem that I have seen in most of those who have turned to me while we are talking is that they somehow feel that they are taking too much away from what they deserve to do. In some ways, they feel that perhaps it would be better, but of course there is more for them. But that is also true, I will not say that I did not get any questions from employers, i.e. from those who offer student work that contributions are very high. And in fact, – I went to look a little bit more closely at all these contributions and benefits that need to be settled by the employer – these contributions are quite high. For example, if the employer wants to pay 100 euros to the student, he has to make 167 euros, which is quite a large sum. Thus, employers may sometimes make little less decisions to offer work to students and students. First of all, I want to know: How many student services in Slovenia? How many employees do they have, and in what way? How many passengers do they issue a year? What kind of traffic do they have together? How much do they keep from earning students and students? If it's a profit, how is that profit, or where does that money go? Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Boris Doblekar, for this question, or more questions, which are seven. I'll try systematically, step by step to answer. In response to the first question of how many student services are available in Slovenia, I explain that there are currently 16 concessionaires in Slovenia who have been awarded a concession by the Ministry of Labour to carry out the activities of the intervention of temporary and occasional works to students and students for 2022. Concessionaires shall, in accordance with the Regulation on the conditions for the performance of the activities of employment agencies, submit annual reports containing certain data by 31 March of the current year at the latest. In view of the above, I will continue to present the data for 2020 as we are not yet available due to the data deadlines for 2021; this month is the deadline for the submission of the reports. So for 2020 there were 18 concessionaires in the Republic of Slovenia. The second question is how many employees they have and how they are employed. In 2020, 149 persons were employed by concessionaires in order to carry out the activities of the intervention of temporary and occasional works to pupils and students for an indefinite period of time, for a fixed period of 11 persons and four persons on a second legal basis. The third question referred to the number of consignments issued. The concessionaires issued 731 thousand 427 passengers in 2020. With regard to the fourth question of how much traffic they have, I explain that concessionaires are obliged to charge 16% of the concession fee paid to students and students, 52.6% of that concession fee is intended for the budget fund for the co-financing of scholarships, 23.7% for the operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and 23.7% for the concessionaires. In 2020, the concessionaires were thus granted a cost of EUR 7 million 505 thousand 48 and 68 cents. With regard to the fifth question of how much they retain from the student's and student's earnings, the student's contributions to the student's or student's pension and disability insurance amounting to 15,5 % are paid from the amount on the contract, while the employer's contribution to the pension and disability insurance amounting to 8,85 %, the contribution to health insurance of 6,36 %, the contribution to injuries at work and occupational diseases of 0,53 % and a 16 % concession fee and an additional 2 % concession fee for students' homes. Contributions and benefits shall be charged and taken by the concessionaire. The recognised concessionaire costs of 23,7 % of the 16 % concession fee are therefore the burden of the employer in which the student or the student performs his work and not the burden of the student or student. The sixth question was how much money they needed to operate student services. Unfortunately, the Ministry does not have the data on how much money concessionaires need to carry out their activities, but I mentioned earlier that in 2020 they were granted the costs of a good EUR 7.5 million. And last question, the question of the profits of concessionaires. I would like to point out that the concessionaire may also carry out other activities affecting his profits, so that we do not have any information on the profits of these concessionaires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Comrade Doblekar, you have the floor for a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. A respected minister, if these students have listened, perhaps even employers, is likely satisfied with the answer. I must say that you have given me a very detailed answer, or so that you can understand. And it is true, of course, that such things are as public as possible, that it is often said that there are no doubts and questions about the mediation of work, about the earnings and also the payment of all these contributions that you have listed. It is also right to pay pension insurance for students and students. I absolutely support that. Somehow, in the case of the accounts, that additional concession charge will be 2 %. As I understand it, this is supposed to be about building student homes. I have to say, it's probably been a while, but so far I haven't seen a lot of student homes, except now with this government, when they started building both student homes and nursing homes and hospitals. So I am counting on the fact that at least from this 2% additional concession fee, at least from now on, it is also more serious about the construction of student homes. Students’ services also say that they will ensure that the student has an immediate transfer because more than 90% of the transfer is provided by the student service. I'm also curious: Where does a student service have such a stock that they can deposit such a sum? And maybe that's all. In the future, we might also consider that in the spirit of the Income Law, employers would be burdened and that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for the supplementary question and comment, honourable Member Doblekar. With regard to investing in the construction of student homes, you yourself have stated that this is not a matter of the department that I am covering, but a colleague is in education. I believe that the additional concession fee is, at least in this mandate, the dedicated money that is to be invested in student homes, either for renewal or for construction. All of us who have lived in student homes are grateful for this opportunity, and I can say that it also helps many with a favourable price to be able to better carry out their study obligations. Also, student work as an opportunity to gain experience, get to know employers and vice versa – to get to know future employees, especially if work, student or student, is extremely important in the field of which a student or student is educated. You asked me which sources the concessionaires or student services could buy these amounts from. In view of the fact that they are able to carry out more business activities, their business model is likely to allow this. But I must say that I personally welcome this decision. Since I was a student and a student myself, I've worked a lot through the student service and it's been very good for me not to wait, I don't know, after a month or more for money for work done. In this sense, I hope that this, I believe, will continue positive business practice if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! Mr. Secretary! You have written on Twitter for three weeks now a rather interesting record regarding the construction of the LNG gas terminal in Slovenia. You wrote that this must be a priority in the light of the search for energy independence and the resilience of Slovenia. In fact, in a talk show on TV Slovenia, he gave an upgrade to the President of the Government, who said that Europe's independence from Russia should be ensured with regard to energy and that we need somewhere on our coast as soon as possible, these were his words, the gas terminal. The story about gas terminals for liquefied natural gas has been in Istria for about 30 years. The first responses were very negative in the early 1990s when the Municipality of Koper rejected this initiative. Then it was the most significant moment of good 10 years ago when the Italian side began to think about the terminal in Žavaje. At that time, on 24 March 2015, we also signed a letter, a public call against this terminal in Žavaje, virtually all congregations of the northern Adriatic, Koper, Izola, Piran, Ankaran, Trieste, Milje and Dolina, a marketing landscape as such, of course other coastal Members, Alpe Adria Green, as well as a number of individuals and individuals from this area. In short, it is a very hot topic mainly for the people of Istria or the entire northern Adriatic, so it is surprising that you have come up with such an idea 10 years after the government has actually done everything in the last few years to avoid the terminal in Žavaje. It even went to court to get Italy to drop this case. What's important is two things. The gas terminal cannot mean energy independence because it is not a source of its own, our assessment is that we need to look for solutions in renewable energy sources. The other thing is that he's extremely dangerous. Danger to the environment – we know this could endanger the entire aquarium – dangerous not least for the economy, for tourism in our places and for the port. Since only some milder dementions have come by your Secretary of State of Koshorok, I would like to know: Did you simply bequeath yourself when writing about the construction of the LNG gas terminal in Slovenia? Are you still serious about this statement, or is there something else behind it?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you for asking. No, I didn't, because I wrote it down, and before I published it, I read it at least ten times, and I discussed it. This is an idea, an idea based on energy independence from Russia, because we are not talking about energy independence in general. You know what energy dependence on Russian gas brings to us today — nothing good. In view of the cost of paying for this gas and other energy products, this money is not the last thing financed by aggression against sovereign countries. It is therefore an idea; it is a reopening of such a debate on the basis of what other European countries are doing. Finally, Germany, which was the driving force of the Green Agreement, announced two new LNG terminals. Moreover, they said, we ask the European Commission to shorten the permits to obtain documentation, deadlines and so on at the shortest possible time, so that new LNG terminals can be reached as soon as possible. Thus, the search for diversification of gas resources is crucial if we are to be energy independent of Russia. As for the Slovenian LNG terminal or this possibility, we have opened a public debate to discuss the diversification of these sources. We're on the level of ideas, not now the story is sealed, closed and so on. Yes, yes, that's a hot topic, Mr. Ambassador. But the even hotter the dark is that it's cold and it's -5 even in Koper, and if it's -1 there's a storm, it's cold and we're at the radiators that don't heat. It's even more of a burning darkness and even more of a burning thing. In the long term, it will be necessary to decide whether to diversify gas resources or to say that we will be cold in winter. We're for not being cold in the winter, I hope the rest of us are too. Therefore, every debate that we have the possibility of heating up even in the winter season is very well-intentioned. My message came from this address on Twitter, very well-intentioned. I think that Slovenia will also have to think very quickly in this direction. Why not? The last time Croatia set up a LNG terminal in Krk. Of course, they are energy-dependent or gas-dependent, gas imports on the Krk are, they are co-dependent, because it is not their gas, but they have all the roads and are all set up so that at this moment they do not have the same problems as many other European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Of course, no one wants to have the radiators closed, that's clear. But given that this is such an important question, you have also received a very quick response from all four Istrian congregations that absolutely oppose it – this response is very clear and therefore I said that we have been talking about these ideas for 30 years. Some medium-term solution to the construction of such a terminal is now, at this point in time may sound meaningful in view of what is happening in Ukraine, and this is understandable. But given the medium-term investment, these terminals cannot be built overnight, would it not be a priority more in other types of renewable energy just in Istria, where we have significantly more potential for use of photovoltaics and wind energy than for a long-term commitment to an environmental and safety risk facility? Once again, in the event of any disaster, whether it's a natural disaster or it's a human error or it's a, God forbid, some attack, there are very serious protocols, how these things are covered, they would limit and essentially stop the fishing and operation of the port, the Cyprus and very likely also the market, not to talk about the crossing itself. This is an extremely environmentally hazardous and, of course, also a security risk. I don't understand from that point of view. If I heard what you just said, you've opened the debate and you're thinking of talking about it. Therefore, a sub-question or supplementation of the question: Why not start a serious debate on the diversification of energy resources in terms of EVEs? Not with such a very risky LNG terminal, which, once again, is also dangerous to the environment and dangerous in terms of safety, but also for all the other structures around the area that are potentially flammable.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	As much as this government has invested in renewable energy in the last two years, even in photovoltaics, there is no other. In two months we spent the Eco Fund on so many households reported for photovoltaics, so we will repeat this call in a larger amount. Together, we will provide financial resources with other ministries to bring money for photovoltaics into Eco. But look out, you mentioned wind power plants. One of the neighboring congregations in Kras, where you come from, is a time ago, where they have great potential in Crassus, and a constant wind is a real storm — because they rejected the wind power plant. In that congregation where someone wants to build something, an investor comes, he refuses. And that's what all the other NGOs do. We have the same problem with the last power plant in line on the lower Sava, Mokrice – it is rejected. Or we've been swinging in the Administrative Court for five years now. The Central Sava is moving into the room, and the last time we get a document, it won't work either. We would like to have OVE, but no one in their congregation would have a windmill or on the degraded skin of photovoltaics. I'm not talking about photovoltaics on the roofs, it's relatively simple, but I'm talking about big photovoltaics, as we're now putting them in, for example, degraded mining areas in Hrastnik, Trubovje and so on. We'd like to have a lot of electricity for electric cars, but at the same time we wouldn't give anything for it. It will be up to us to decide whether we want to have electricity or whether we are going to do something about it, give up, I don't know, one part of it — but no. We have the same under Pohori now. Again, I think that one of the Slovenian municipalities is opposed to the fact that the windmills are there. Yeah, well, let's argue. But we have only two windmills in Slovenia. Wherever you're going across Europe, when you're landing on a plane, you can see the windshields below. Is that right? And I wonder what's wrong with us not to go into this concept. What's wrong with us? So, yes, the priorities are definitely renewable energy sources. However, I do not understand: “environmental danger”, “unacceptable”. I'm not an expert in this area, I don't know, the Germans say otherwise, Croats also say as far as LNG terminal is concerned. So, in this area, too, we are one big exception. We're opening a new debate on this. Personally, I think it is necessary to ensure energy independence and, in particular, that we will not be cold in the next winter. If this government continues to be where it is, it will be ensured. Just as we have responded to electricity prices, so will the rest of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Dear Minister, good afternoon! Otherwise, I'm going to ask a question that was raised before the Prime Minister, and I didn't know it would be. But I'm going to open another debate because I think it's more interesting for Slovenia. But I'm going to ask you the same question as you got on the list. The prices of petroleum derivatives, as you know, are exactly what we expected. Many gas services in Slovenia have significantly increased. Not a little bit, but sensitive. About your system of deregulated prices, it is said that liberalisation, when you introduced the full liberalisation of these petroleum derivatives with validity virtually from 1 October to 12, then we soon saw that the price was stable for quite some time, then it started to grow. In time, this showed up to 50, 60, now even 70 % higher price of diesel fuel. I will give an example of diesel fuel because it is the one most used, we also use it for business purposes, for transport, we also use it in production spaces. You yourself know that we also need it in the manufacturing works, we need to use diesel fuel for trucks, not the other ones, and for forklifts and everything that's going on. I'm interested in that, Your Honor. Now you've accepted, writes, news everywhere that you've reintroduced the government I don't know what, with the Tuesday you'll re-regulated the price of oil derivatives. But that doesn't mean anything yet. Apparently, the Prime Minister also said before that you can no longer reduce excise duties because you are at the lowest point in terms of what we both know is not true that excise duties can still help ordinary people and business facilities, especially businesses and industry. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to answer me: What additional measures do you intend to take regarding the prices of oil derivatives? Because what it is is only one part of the action. So I'm wondering: Can we expect what Italy has done — to reduce VAT in certain situations, in certain factories, in certain transport companies, or in those most affected by this price? How do you feel today about your decision to liberalise fuel prices? I guess we both know that liberalisation can't work where you have two bidders. This becomes cartel management, and that's what you know. The third bidder now bought 300 or I don't know how many million OMV pumps, in fact they've been settled since before. And you don't usually do that. I want to know how you would think from now on and all the other things, because consumers are at a disadvantage anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member Marko Bandelli, distinguished National Assembly! Thank you for asking. As you can see, global oil prices have reached record highs. Currently, the real reason for the rise in oil prices and its derivatives is the war in Ukraine and its impact on the market. The reasons for price increases are also general tensions in the energy market, gas prices, coal prices, which have risen or increased in recent months, thus increasing the demand for oil as the only or one of the possible alternatives. All of this is also known at prices on our gas services. Prices are moving in the same way as in other neighbouring countries. In the background, the binding of fuel prices to crude oil prices on global markets is also dependent on the price of fuels. As you are saying, we have released the prices of oil derivatives, which in fact means that we have released the margins to the prices of oil derivatives. Here I would ask for correct communication, because this affects only 6% of retail prices, but we were the only country in the European Union that had regulated margin prices. In the meantime, the problem that has arisen is the world market price for oil, which represents 40% in price structure and, together with all taxes, more than 90% of the final retail price, not the regulated margin price. However, in response to the high energy prices during the heating season, the Government adopted a regulation restricting the margins to the heating oil. These are limited to 6 euro cents per litre. This regulation is currently in force until 22 April. We have also prepared an intervention law in January to respond to the state of energy, with regulations for three months we have reduced energy spending for energy consumers to the lowest possible level. And today, as has been said, we will act. But today means today. At the letter meeting, the material will be set the maximum price under the Price Control Act. In particular, the maximum retail price allowed for motorised unleaded petrol 95 and for diesel fuel will be calculated taking into account the seven-day average price developments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal and shall apply for 30 days. If you still want to answer the question about the liberalisation of margins, I say that I am still behind the then decision on liberalisation, because it does not affect the price of energy in this respect, as we are currently discussing. Like I said, six percent tops. Long-term regulation in our country – I think it lasted more than 20 years – was no longer justified because it is an intervention in the functioning of the market. With regard to the active event, we will certainly react. When we liberalised fuel prices or margins gradually in three steps, we had three separate providers and, if necessary, we would if any of what you said happened, we would take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you. Minister, I am very disturbed by what you repeat and repeat also the Prime Minister nonstop, says that the Government has stated that it is a matter of reducing excise duties to the lowest possible level, and never telling you what the lowest possible level means for you. I'll tell you, fix me if I miss. For the gas, it goes down, you did it on February 1st, I don't know how much you'll do if you do it, so if you do, but I don't think you'll do it. Because others did, in Italy and elsewhere. Gasoline decreases from 0.37 euros to 0.35, which is 4.9%. You've reduced your excise duty by 4.9%. If I give for example gas oil, conventional diesel fuel, what is used in cars – from 0.38 to 0.33, you have reduced 13%. Do you know how much fun there is? We can lower it by at least 20 cents to help others. That's what people need now. They don't need 200 euros to go on vacation, do you understand me? They need to survive. Did you hear what's going to happen today? Today I have received news that Goriške burners will probably close production due to the price of gas, which is too high because the country will limit the consumption of large consumers. What will happen if the consumption of the brick itself decreases and what is it? Everything's going to stop, the masonry, the store, everything that needs to be done. That's why I'm interested. You say, you only mention “to the lowest possible level” all the time. Please make it clear that you only reduced by 4.9% and 13% on diesel. Why didn't you cut by 25% or up to 50%, as Italy did? That's what I'm curious about, one clear answer to that, because here's the cool part, here's your chance. And also about Petrol, who was said to be greedy or what he is – of course they are, because they deliberately ran out of fuel, and then the next day people were tanked at higher prices. Please tell me how you will act in the long term on this matter if you are really going to help entrepreneurship and industry, because it is a problem. It's a real problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	I guess we're talking about two different things. We have already taken action in the field of electricity prices by means of a temporary measure. I know that there is still a major problem with energy-intensive companies, but there is no need for such a large scale for companies and individual consumers to be freed from the grid for these three months. We've been lowering these prices temporarily. I hope things settle down. In the field of oil derivatives prices, look at neighbouring countries – we have lower prices compared to Italy, Austria and Croatia today, but they are higher than fully regulated Hungarian prices. If Italy did what you said, they wouldn't have a gas tank just over 2 euros. I said that today, at the government meeting, we will limit sales prices on the basis of the last seven-day average, but that it will be necessary to react and also allow sellers to operate according to the purchase prices. If you are talking about excise duties, they are allowed at the lowest possible level in the European Union. Of course, if we go completely beyond all systems, then we can also abolish excise duties. At this point -- I say again -- we have enough oil derivatives in the country so that we will not physically suffer a shortage. On the other hand, I believe that things will calm down, and even the latest quotations show that oil prices are falling. This shock, due to the rapid transition from Russian oil to other oil, showed its teeth and caused the procurement processes to be disrupted on one side and the pressure on the other was high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Comrade Bandelli, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Minister, thank you. I know you know how to answer this, but you understand me, too, that I know very well what this is about, because I also taste it on my own skin, and I know exactly what it is and what it isn't. I told you about this liberalisation, if you remember, November when we were here, Minister. And I showed you exactly, and I also told you what was going to happen. And that's exactly what's happening, what I said back then. As the crisis will be in the coming year, not what is happening now – but let us stop, I am interested in something else. Now we're wondering why you're always talking about the margin, always about the fuel margin, what it is, what it's not. We know, for example, about diesel fuel, that it has more quality, because it also involves biodiesel, mixing palm oil, tail oil and the like, and so much percentage. Petrol is saying that these prices have increased by 150% in the last two years, or I don't know how much, but this work is only 10%, 10.1%, I think it's as much as they can afford. That is also why all the problems we have everywhere due to greenhouse gas emissions and everything else are happening, but this is not today's debate. I am sure – and it is right that you also have Minister Vrtovec – waiting for a draft law to pass on this Directive 92. I don't know if she's ready or not. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	Dude, you have a procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	What is it?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	You have a procedural proposal, don't you? Not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Yeah, I'll get to him, I'll get to him. Why would I want public treatment to be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Because I think that these problems are much bigger than what you predicted you would do in the government today to regulate prices again. If you intend to regulate prices only by simply saying yes, 8% – not 6%, but is 8% of the margin, I write here Petrol's response and others – in this way we will do nothing. Nothing. However, if you stop saying “temporary” all over the place, mention that it is a matter of reducing excise duties to the lowest possible level, never say how much. [[…]] I told you how much you've lowered, and these are the numbers I told you before. If you can reduce them by another 20% temporarily or 30% temporarily, for these figures, then we can really get gasoline and diesel down by 20, even 25, even 30 cents, so that we can get help, temporarily to help all those who are big users of this, and also to the small ones at the pumps. And the other is about VAT, which is what I told you. I would like to discuss this in case it happens that there will be a public hearing, which is what I want, Vice-President, to be. In order to really address this issue, because this problem takes up a very large part of our country and especially the size of the people who use fuels every day, even for work. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much. There will be an answer to the question. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Before we proceed, I would ask all those who ask, and those who answer, to wait for me to give you my word, that you do not take the word forward, as it was in this case. The word is given by Bojan Podkoršek, who will question the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia! My question concerns your area, the construction of infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. Last week was two years from the government of Janez Janša, in which you are the entire government of the Minister of Infrastructure. Winter times also allow our respected builders all over Slovenia to build infrastructure buildings. I am interested in this because I walk alone in Slovenia or follow it through networks and media, in short, it is built in almost all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, infrastructure facilities, here I have in mind roads, sidewalks, bridges, especially it is very commendable or it is obvious that much work is also being done on railway infrastructure. The data that citizens and citizens monitor from afar or when driving past construction sites are extremely encouraging. Dear Minister, since we have already taken a strong step into the year 2022, I would like to ask: What was the realisation in the infrastructure projects mentioned last year? Given that the painting, I repeat, is extremely good, I would also be interested in numbers. Thank you for your first part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Without false modesty, we can really boast that in 2021 we were very successful in carrying out many transport infrastructure projects. On this occasion, I would also like to thank you for all your help, and for all those Members who supported the work of the ruling coalition in order to be able to obtain such budgets that enabled such projects to be carried out, and for all ideas. So, the coalition plus you who supported this coalition in adopting the budget and other documents, thank you very much. Here, we're building all over Slovenia. We build all over Slovenia, from Gorička to Piran and from Ratec to Brežic, in full. Many projects are being implemented and many of the projects that have been delayed, the major infrastructure projects that have already stood still – we have not waited 20 years – we have moved forward. Let me mention just three of the biggest, from the Karavanka tunnel that we started in this mandate, the 3rd development axes that we have been waiting for 20 years, the second track to individual small ones, such as the Vodice bypass, the Kidric bypass, the Slovenian Bistrica bypass against Impola, we started the Murska Sobota bypass project. Thus, from Primorska to Štajerska, this moment is being built everywhere in Slovenia. Implementation in the previous year was at 95%, 96%. So, we're also spending the money we're looking for. I can say that in particular the 3rd Development Axis is the project led by Dars, which is extremely important to connect Koroška and the White Landscape with the central part of Slovenia. Today, the inhabitants of Metlika need longer time to Ljubljana than to the capital of another country. So we have to connect them, but unfortunately on this part of the 3rd development axis, when we received the building permit for the Novo Mesto-Credek route in October, then again came a complaint from a civil initiative and again things stand. For the next term precisely because we have difficulties in placing facilities in the premises, in permits, in all procedures, I can say that we are promising an intervention law for the placement and acquisition of building permits. For example, for one leg of Podravska fast road, Ormož-Gorišnica, Gorišnica-Markovci-Ptuj, we have been obtaining permits for all eternity. However, we are optimistic that we will also begin building on this section of the Podravska Fast Road in this mandate. Many of the railings that I have previously listed, Kidričeva, Slovenska Bistrica, the first stage of the western outskirts of Maribor is being built, Vrhnika, Tolmin, on Wednesday we start building the bypass of Vodice. Then, the second track I also mentioned, works are being done on the viaduct of Glinščica in full, the second track is being built without annexes. Tell me, when was the last time you heard of an annex on the second track? There are no Annexes on the second track. And all the other important projects, especially on the railways. We want to strengthen the rail infrastructure. During the two years of our mandate, we have renovated the entire railway infrastructure from Kranj to Jesenic, including the tunnel of Karavanka for railways, the railway tunnel. We have invested about 150 million euros in this. We are currently renewing the Ljubljana-Borovnica railway connection and the Ljubljana-Brezovica connection and the Borovnica-Borovnica call is now under way. The contractor will be known within 14 days. Then we rebuild the entire railway connection from the Wall Bridge to Celje, this is already done, then Celje–Maribor, we have already done this, with the new Maribor station, and from Maribor to Šentilj, and there we build the tunnel Hell and viaduct Pesnica. It sounds like a lot of projects on the railways. Let me remind you, let me remind you of Pragersko's node. This investment is essentially worth €88 million and we started building six months ago. All of this has previously cost me unknown reasons, and today all of this is ongoing. All railway and road projects go full steam ahead. For the end of this answer to your question, I can say sincere thanks to all those who have supported the infrastructural breakthrough of Slovenia over the last two years. Today we have something to show for it and we can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Would you like a word to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	I want to, and please. Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer, which is very extensive, but it was primarily given with an extraordinary number. I am particularly pleased with the number of the realization. This is extremely encouraging. Of course, thanks to the entire government, you, and especially to all your co-workers at the Ministry, have come to the results that are clearly seen in the figures, and are particularly visible in all of Slovenia, as I have found myself. Given that I have little knowledge of future plans for the future – I firmly believe that this pace will continue – I am interested in: Do you have enough experts or will you need to do something about it? For such extensive projects, of course, you need large teams to run them. That's what I'm aware of. Above all, I am concerned that all construction companies will be able to support the plans of your ministry, the government, so that all projects that are ready for the future are already designed, issued building permits, and built. Thank you again for this successful work and thank you for your answer and all the good.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thanks for the update. In the country we do have a number of experts from the construction profession, excellent professionals, I can say that with DRSI, which operates within the Ministry, really is extremely satisfied, there are loving and committed people, and not least the DRI, the real company is owned by the state, but indeed the work is done professionally and superbly. We have to be proud of these people. I can say that it is not typical state institutions, but it is those people who have not only operationally beneath them, but also a vision, further project planning and so on. Very boldly, professionally they are going to do their job, which is why I am going to say that at one of the next meetings of the Government, the Ministry will propose a number of other projects for the NRP – as regards experts and people I do not fear. So we've got DRI, and the DRI's got important people at the Ministry that are in the middle of it, for sure. It is a very well-founded second question – the ability of Slovenian construction. Right now, we're on limits, and that's what we can do. What showed in 2021 is what we can do. We have seen in some stages of drawing on European funds by municipalities that, say construction, especially small construction companies, in certain cases have not been able to do everything, certain contracts have been extended, but it is crucial that the absorption capabilities of Slovenian construction are what they are. We have done a very smart thing at the beginning of this mandate during the co-existence of the crisis, namely, we have additionally launched construction in the course of new investments, because we were aware that there are multiple effects here for the entire Slovenian economy. This was a very bold decision to witness such economic growth last year and this year. So, we had a good plan. This moment we can only say that the key absorption capabilities of Slovenian construction and construction skills are indeed crucial, or we will be able to continue this cycle to an even greater extent. But here we also have international open tenders, competition can be anyone, come to Slovenia to make an offer and this is it. Of course, Slovenian rules, Slovenian legislation and so on must be respected. Therefore, it is not necessary to fear any further implementation of the projects, of course, if this government is still in power.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boštjan Koritnik and Interior Minister Aleš Hojsa. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present, especially my ministers! I will ask Mr Kortnik's Minister of Public Administration and Minister of the Interior, Mr Hojs, the following questions. The billboards, with which certain parliamentary parties have already launched an electoral campaign, are all over Slovenia, especially in the Armistice region, so little to do without any meaningful order. They are most in the eyes of the industry, where the Slovenian Democratic Party is misleadingly informing citizens and citizens and citizens that it is building various infrastructure projects across the country, in the municipality of Ormož, especially in the Municipality of the Centre ob Drava and, of course, in the town of Sveta Tomaž. Minister Kortnik, I want to know: How did such unequal and orderly distribution of posters come about? Did these political parties receive permission to put up these posters? Who gave them permission, if any? You, Minister Alesh Hoys, I ask: Will the inspectors, due to the start of the electoral campaign, punish or initiate appropriate procedures for the abuse of the political party's electoral campaign? Is any procedure initiated, or will it be against persons who have issued alleged disputed licenses to put up posters? Well, if those permits even exist. I'm asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister Koritnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you, Chairman. A nice greeting to all, especially to Mr. Ivanus! As Minister of the Ministry of Public Administration, which also includes the regulation of the field of electoral and referendum campaigns, I am answering this parliamentary question regarding the electoral campaign, as regulated by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, ZVRK. The election campaign, as you know, starts 30 days before the day of the vote, and this is also a period that, in terms of funding, postering and organising meetings, is more specifically governed by the previously appointed law, namely the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. The conduct and functioning of political parties outside this period, i.e. 30 days, is not part of an electoral campaign from the perspective of the ZVRK, and if political parties, let's say, advertise outside the 30-day electoral campaign period as provided for by the ZVRK, have to comply with the rules governing other advertising in the media and other media publishing media, as well as under the Political Parties Act. So this is our department, so our specific law only regulates that 30-day period, outside of that it's general rules. However, the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, responsible for the interpretation of the Law on Political Parties. However, it is a specific provision that all the costs mentioned in the ZVRK are considered to be the costs of the electoral campaign, regardless of when they were incurred, when they were paid and when the operations relating to the individual acts of the electoral campaign were concluded, if the costs and transactions relate to the period of the electoral campaign, i.e. those 30 days. This means that even if costs for posters or flyers were incurred in the pre-election campaign period, and this material is used during the election campaign, they are considered to be part of the costs of the electoral campaign, which is supervised by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the permits are concerned. Permission to place posters on existing advertising premises or on infrastructure for political parties should not be obtained, and local communities should, on the basis of Article 8(1) of the ZVRK free of charge, even without the payment of municipal fees, ensure that all electoral campaign organisers have equal treatment in the application of these posters, i.e. in posters, the number and total area should allow each election campaign organiser to at least provide basic information to voters in the local community about the candidate list or the referendum issue. This free service of the municipality shall be allowed an exception to the general rule referred to in Article 14, paragraph 1, so that the organizer of the electoral campaign may obtain contributions only from natural persons, as this allows for the fifth paragraph of Article 14. This is an arrangement of these 30 days used during the duration of the electoral campaign, and outside this period the supervisory authorities under the ZVR have no powers to exercise control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. And Minister Alesh Hoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! I'll continue where Minister Koritnik has finished. Looking back on section 40 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, it is clear here that the control of the postering itself or the competent inspection service in this direction is a local community. So the local inspection service and the local registrar are responsible for all postering actions. However, if – and for the most part or for the most part – these boards are placed in some of the protection zones of the Ministry of Infrastructure or on agricultural land or elsewhere, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of the Environment shall be responsible for these controls. What is the role of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the body of our Ministry? This inspectorate is responsible for the so-called electoral silence. This is the main task of this inspectorate and this is essentially activated just before the present, i.e. 24 hours, as stipulated in the law, 24 hours before the vote, when the vote takes place. Our inspectorate will be ready for this electoral silence this year, as it is every year. Mostly their tasks shall be carried out in the form of a direct or ongoing presence on the phone. People, therefore, tell the citizens themselves where the voter silence is, and in further procedures the inspectorate initiates procedures related to the violation of this electoral silence. As far as what you've said is concerned, I have to wonder, because I don't know that a SDS client, who I belong to, would write anywhere that she builds these investments herself. It probably says "for you to build" or something. I don't think it says "build ourselves." If we wrote that, maybe we wrote it a little awkward. If we wrote that we are building for you, the waterworks, the roads and so on, it is, of course, quite a common slogan, because it is an indisputable fact. As previously explained by the Minister of Infrastructure, the fact that it is working under this government is. And since we are an integral part of this government, the SDS party is the bearer of this government, it is understandable that we are writing in the first person, in the only one, but that does not mean that we are the only ones who are building. Maybe just to finish it. As regards the very action you have asked, let me say that the Law on Offences in Article 6 defines the offence as an act contrary to the law, regulation or decision of a self-governing local community, and in this regard also prescribes a fine or a penalty for an offence. There is no fine for this act in the law, so of course there is no simple offence and our inspection or inspection within our ministry cannot lead the procedure in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your answers. After what you have done, it is said that there is no sanction for something like this that is happening at our end. It's 30 days. Earlier you yourself, Mr Koritnik, said 30 days, when an election campaign is launched, the real election is called. 30 days, is it supposed to be March 25th in the morning that we should barely be crying in Slovenia? 30 days if it's 24. Fourth election. But good. I'm perfectly clear, you've spoken in general, and I'm saying it's a local matter that's then gone all over Slovenia. Here I have eight posters, where it's simply all built by the SDS party, and these are misleading posters in our environment, that's what this is about. It is perfectly clear to me, as you yourself have mentioned, that the matter is complex because it intertwines over four ministries, the agricultural minister may even be, as it is here, thank God, and also infrastructure, if we are to clear up a matter. Of course, there's nothing at stake. I just happen to have you with me, but they're deceiving. That's a fact. They do not speak – it is all good and good, all of it, thank God that the municipalities are being built, as we have heard Minister Vrtovec before, what is done in Slovenia, thank God that it is being built. But they build congregations, they build countries, they build Europe, they don't build any political parties. That's misleading, and I'm warning you. And if there's no sanctions here, then I don't even know what we're doing in this country. It's not an election campaign anymore, it's something else. That if you can explain it to me. Since I have the material here, I have a newspaper, because you've been tracking this stuff from the newspapers, if you can comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Minister Kortnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you. First of all, that part that relates directly to the MJU. Customer advertising is permitted every day of the year and falls under a special ZVRK regime for 30 days. This does not mean that advertisements cannot stop early, otherwise 11 months would not know that customers exist because advertising can be anything. Now that part, the contents. I'm not a member of the SDS party, and I wouldn't particularly try to defend it, but look, it's like winning our basketball players. We won the European Championship, and I didn't play, I only had bloody hands because I stuck my nails in my nervous system. But every time we introduce ourselves, we say, "We won the European Championship, we are European champions." But yesterday we were global. So I think that slogans should always be taken here with a dose of understanding that you can’t put all the content in the title of the articles, and that is why the content in the second article is. But that's just my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Minister Hoys, can I help you? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I think Minister Kortnik has very well explained this dictatorship “we build” and so on. I will be happy if also, I don't know, the customer Levica publishes this poster, “We are building Slovenia”. And the voters will decide whether to do so, as I had previously heard, to prevent the acquisition of equipment and protective equipment for Slovenian soldiers. Perhaps they too will see that something does not go together. Or, I don't know if we can remember if you look at that poster that I think was funded by Dr. Snowy now, where Mr. Miha Kordish, who is half-conscious there, is hanging. For someone, like you said, it's not true, it's true for someone else, but whoever ordered it decided to advertise things that way. Like, I don't know, Peugeot advertises: "Our car has the best," I don't know what, "driving properties," but the question is whether that's true. So we really need to look at these things more from a marketing point of view. It is understandable, however, if you look at what the SDS has moved in this mandate or how much things have gone on with your help, Mr Ivanus, because you have been a very correct Member and supported those projects that are there, they are also building that I can only thank you in this spirit. You can't understand that as we advertise, we want to advertise as if it were just our job. Our President made it clear and thanked all three coalition parties who decided to participate in this mandate. Likewise, I can thank you as the opposition party that supported the good projects in this mandate. And these good projects are on the posters.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanuša, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you, Chairman. It's all nice and right, but there's still one thing in your eyes, just the fact that one thing's not right. Nothing else. But I didn't know that SDS was the largest construction site in Slovenia. I didn't know that. I know that now, thank God. I know that now, something new. But good. Basically, the message is just the way it is. That's not right. That's all that matters on our side. Many citizens have turned to us that this message is not correct. It is right to build, as I do, once again, Minister Vrtovec said, across all of Slovenia is building, thank God. Just that it's built, that the thing goes on, that the state works, that's the fact. But still, there are some things that come into your eyes. So me. You yourself have said that we, too, have brought the votes that the budgets have gone through so that they can be built, for all these budgets. We're not talking here, we're always talking about the state working. But still, sometimes strange things turn out. I don't know if it makes any sense to give, but I'll let the debate take place, if possible. Because it seems to me that time will be running out in this term, so that these discussions are difficult to be, but still. It is a fact, however, that we have again, in some ways, proof that we have a lack of legislation. In addition to all these laws, which exist up and down in this country, there is still some inadequacy in our laws. That bothers me. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. If you have made a request, we will then decide on your proposal on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Otherwise, it was a violation of the rules of procedure. Next is Jožef Lenart, who will question the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Jožet Podgoršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, especially the guests from the Ministry! Dear colleagues and colleagues! My question is with regard to the dry water retention and flood protection that is being built in the Ptuj area, in particular on the Rogoznica stream, and, of course, with regard to the loss of agricultural land that will actually be flooded. Dear Minister, we are both aware of the problems of farmers. In fact, we would like more land, we would like to acquire and rent more agricultural areas, so that we can expand to make it easier to develop. Here they sometimes encounter problems that are actually larger companies intercepting quality agricultural land. These include, for example, poultry that processes large areas. In fact, this is a foreign-owned company from my environment, and our domestic farmers are limited. So I have to say that now, for various reasons, the loss of agricultural land is also due to this deliberate flooding that will take place on this stream. It is somehow understandable that we have the first protection of people, the protection of settlements, property, houses, even business buildings, but these farmers who have turned to me are active farmers, they are actually living off agriculture, they own protected farms and are somehow disappointed that in the event of larger floods, almost 30 hectares of land will deliberately flood, including fields. That's why they're addressing me with a question, and I'm presenting it to you, your honorary minister. I want to know: Are there any opportunities for farmers to replace agricultural land with another land, or are there any other way to solve problems so that we do not lose crops, including food crops, and so on? In the long term, I can say that these parts of agricultural land, including fields, will probably be degraded because there are some floods, it will bring them, it will carry them. Can we promise them in any way that we will try to solve the problem and help them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr Lenart, I thank you for the question. This is one of the important issues for both the local population and agriculture. We are aware that flood protection and protection of people's property are generally paramount. On the other hand, as Minister responsible for agriculture, I often advocate the principle that the protection of agricultural land is at least our first resort. In our country, when we talk about the protection of various matters, we often do most of the different protections at the expense of agricultural land and regret that, on the basis of previous practices and also on the basis of the 25-year agricultural policy, we often encounter that agricultural land is the most often the victim of various interventions into space. In this particular case, we are talking about a dry restraint. In our agricultural sector, we would be more pleased if we talked about a wet retainer that could be used for irrigation of agricultural land. However, we are talking about a dry retainer and to provide introductory information that placing in place and building flood security of the population under the responsibility of another ministry, namely the Ministry of Environment and Space. Our ministry in the process, however, is involved in spatial planning, which is always our view that all measures to ensure flood safety need to be properly planned in the framework of spatial planning and, in most cases, in the context of municipal planning, in case of larger and in the context of national spatial plans. The Ministry is therefore only involved in the procedure as the holder of the regulation of the premises for the protection of agricultural land. Dry buffers are normally planned in the ODP in a way that for water facilities, such as partitions, provides for a change of purpose and other areas remain in agricultural use. As a rule, therefore, on these areas of the dry holder there will still be much of the land of the year, which will not be flooded because, I repeat, it is a dry hold. It is true that it is essential from our point of view that in the agricultural land area before the building permit is obtained, that is, before the construction begins, measurements of the zero agricultural land situation must be carried out. So figure out what these lands are, what their quality is. Why is that important? Because the monitoring plan, monitoring of these agricultural land, is also an integral part of the building permit. This monitoring shall monitor the pollution aspect, physical soil degradation as well as the agricultural potential. In the event of a deterioration of the agricultural land situation, as I have said before, in line with the operator's monitoring plan — that is, the one who manages this flood protection — the Minister's colleague manages this — must provide additional safeguards to prevent further deterioration of these agricultural land and establish the initial situation of agricultural land and provide the owners of agricultural land with an adequate compensation for loss of potential or loss of income for a time when no initial situation has been established on these agricultural land. In the event that the original situation cannot be established, the Dry Restraint Manager is obliged to provide the owners with replacement agricultural land as well as the loss of income for the period from the finding of deterioration to the provision of replacement agricultural land. However, since we know that replacement agricultural land cannot be taken anywhere, in this case the agricultural land fund is always an active partner in the search for replacement land in the case of so-called free agricultural land, i.e. land where there is no ten-year lease. You also mentioned the issue, which is very important and also from our address repeatedly addressed, we are talking about renting agricultural land, who is entitled, who is the pre-borrower and so on. Here too, I would like to point out that the lease is still in line with the 25-year agricultural policy in our country and that the existing tenant is a pre-borrower under the law, and if we want to change this practice, this means a comprehensive overhaul of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much for these answers, Minister Podgoršek. More than my constituency is of course an agricultural area, so there can be no surprise that I am repeatedly addressing you. For we both need to stand up for ourselves, and you, as a minister, as a Member, you, for us to be self-sustaining, this is immediately clear to me, and I, that the agricultural land in my Bezik will be processed and that farmers producing our food will be able to develop and expand. I have to say, I'm really happy with your good answers so far. What you told me was already partly clear to me, is that it is being monitored that there are also measures, and it is possible that these owners will receive some compensation. But anyway, they asked me how. Somehow they find it more logical to say more hygienic, farm-based logic to flood meadows, not fields. From this title there is also a little disappointment from these farmers. Land of first quality, certainly the one where food grows, is essential to protect. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Surely, for us today, the word self - care is often a key word when we talk about food, although two years ago it was almost a mocking or forbidden word. In front of the covidé, some Slovenian agricultural experts of everyone who used this word looked a little sideways, and what we are going to do, because we are in a great European family and this self-sustainment is in itself given. It's not like that. I think that both co-vid and the current situation of the war in Ukraine have shown us that this word is still very important. Not just a word, including all measures to increase self-sustainment. I can assure you that, even in the strategic plan for the new programming period, we have given self-sustainment a great deal of importance, including thanks to the 310 million additional resources that this government will devote to agriculture for the first time since we joined the European Union. I say several times that I am one of the most proud agricultural ministers of the European Union, because one of the few countries that has added so much additional funding to agriculture for the new programming period, and also the first minister, who, of course, with the Government, has provided this from Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Protecting agricultural land is one of the important tasks of our ministry. We've talked about this a lot. Not only with these restraints, but also. And if we're very honest, because some dry restraints, we're going to say, they also protect agricultural land downstream, because that does stop the water somewhere. We know that as a result of climate change, we have an increasing number of weather phenomena that we do not like. At this point, we have a drought in agriculture, and in one month, the flood may be in the same area. So we have real extremes that need to be controlled. However, in terms of protecting agricultural land, I believe we are doing quite a few important measures. Tomorrow's review of the Agricultural Lands Act in this National Assembly will also provide some answers to questions on how to protect agricultural land in the introduction of municipal spatial plans, state spatial plans. Finally, this law will also give an opportunity, which is not now, that those owners of agricultural land that will lose land due to large infrastructure facilities, including state importance, will be able to purchase the land in a priority or priority lease within a time-frame to the extent that they lose because of these large infrastructure facilities. So they will be able to buy, they will be able to go into the substitution process or also to rent, we will say past the priority order that is in force because it is necessary to ensure this replacement. I conclude with the idea that in protecting agricultural land we are also working very intensively on the eradication of vegetation, and I can argue that 2021 has also been significantly better in this work than it has been in all the years since we have eliminated cultivation in several areas in 2021 than in the previous 10 years together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Two important cultural documents were adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the period 2018-2022. First, on 4 December 2019, the Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture for the period 2021-2027 was adopted, with seven programming sets of EUR 122 million and EUR 600 000, and then on 22 February 2022 the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture for the period 2022 to 2029. So I'm asking Dr. Vask Simoniti, Minister of Culture: How is the cultural euro law, as we call it, implemented? At what stage is the preparation of the Action Plan based on the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2022-2029? When will he be available to the public? The Action Plan is the government's obligation under Article 10 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which, for a period of four years, sets out measures, scope and type of activities, objectives, extent of resources and time for their implementation and indicators by which they will be measured. Mr. Minister, I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, the so-called Cultural Euro Act, was adopted on 26 November 2019. Following the appearance of the Janša government in the summer of 2020, when we prepared the revision of the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2021, we were able to finally include additional financial resources. I'm finally saying this because it wasn't done before. To this end, an additional EUR 9 million for 2021 and an additional almost 13 million for 2022 have been successfully provided by the Ministry of Culture by amending the budget for 2021. Of course, the law clearly defines the purposes for which funds are to be spent, and this is how the distribution in 2021 went as follows: the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most important cultural monuments for 4 million 200 000, the arrangement of basic spatial conditions and the purchase of equipment for public institutions amounting to 2 million 800 000, the support for the development of modern library services for 150 000 euros, the preservation and restoration of the most endangered and most important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and the digitisation of cultural heritage – 1.1 million, million 100,000, the construction of the most endangered infrastructures for Slovenian language – 50 000, the provision of the most essential spatial conditions and equipment for the development of cultural and non-governmental culture – 500 000 and then in both years buy back cultural heritage items worth 500 thousand euros. Thus, for 2022, 12 million 950 thousand are foreseen and the rehabilitation of the most endangered cultural monuments is 4 million, the provision of basic spatial conditions for the purchase of equipment for public institutions – 6 million and a half, support for the development of modern library services – 150 000, preservation and reconstruction of the most endangered and most important Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and digitisation of cultural heritage – a million 100 thousand. Then for the Slovenian language, digital – 50 000, providing the most essential spatial conditions and equipment for the development of amateur and non-governmental culture by local communities and youth cultural activities – 500 000 and redemption, as I said before, 500 000 euros. Decisions for investing in public cultural infrastructure owned by the Republic of Slovenia have already been issued for 2021 and 2022 respectively. The main funding is for investments and equipment in public institutions in the fields of creativity, film, cultural heritage, and the money for cultural monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia will be devoted to the reconstruction and restoration of the orangery in the Dornava Castle in 2022. A two-year tender for the rehabilitation of cultural monuments in municipal and private property was also launched in 2021, with the integral resources provided for 8 million 300,000 euros and for co-financing approved rehabilitation for 169 buildings. For public cultural infrastructure for local communities in 2021, 2022 public calls were made, each time at a rate of EUR million and a half. In 2021, the Ministry of Culture financed 42 municipal buildings, together with other public calls and integrative funds, from this title. For 2022, the procedure is in the final phase. With regard to the Action Plan on the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2022-2029, I can say that, as you know, a national programme for culture has been adopted after five years and an action plan for a period of four years must be adopted in this regard. It sets out measures, objectives, scope of funds, time for their implementation and indicators by which they will be measured. In the second part of the reply [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go, just Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Minister, for your answer. An additional question is that you will be able to complete your answer. I would ask for 2021 even more specifically if it could be through facilities, with regard to the implementation of the cultural euro law. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I am pleased that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the consideration of the national programme for culture for the period 2022-2029, supported my amendment on investments in UNESCO's global cultural heritage and monument – the bearer of the European Heritage Label of 20 million and 700 000 euros. It is five units: for the prehistoric cradle on Ig, for the heritage of mercury in Idrija, for the selected works of Jožet Plečnik in Ljubljana, for the church of St. Spirit in Javorca and for Partizan Hospital Franjo with reception and information center. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Will this fact and the adoption of this amendment be taken into account in the preparation of the action plan for the next four years? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I would like to say the following about the action plan. In this year's budget for 2022, if the action plan had been adopted earlier, it would have actually come to some disproportion, because in fact money was much more than originally thought if the national programme for culture had been adopted. It is good, of course, that for the last two years the action plan has not actually existed, because the realization would have deviated significantly from what would have been written in a positive direction, because we have provided much more resources or more than ever before. The most credible each time action plan is in fact to a large extent the current annual budget, as the most efficient and consistent implementation of the national programme for culture of the targets is based on the level of available resources. This action plan will certainly be implemented; or it will be written down in more concrete terms for at least two years, because the budget is somehow organised, as we know; it will remain in the framework form without evasiveness or any such. And also your suggestions, your amendment is completely acceptable and also placed, so I don't believe it would be possible to overlook it. However, in the action plan there are now certain, as I would say, insufferability to say so. Investments can take this most into account, for example, while in other programmes; you know that there are one-year, two-year, four-year programmes, i.e. one-year, then project, then program. And if these software runs out and they can somehow be planned for four years at all public calls and so on, then that's what's going on. There will be certain imbalances here, because if we carefully prescribe, exactly and definitively, then some creative dynamics at the Ministry will also be lost. I think this will be the subject of further discussion. However, we will certainly try this action plan by the end of the term of office [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u149	President, thank you for your word. In the area of the care of the elderly in this country, the government is insisting on the crisis. There are 12,000 elderly people in the ranks waiting for a city in the home of older citizens, and the guardians are going to heaven. Particularly problematic are the private concessional homes of older citizens, who on average charge a poor third of the higher care, as is the case with public homes. Various places in the country are threatened by this shortage of cities in the homes of older citizens. The bishop of Lok is one of the most striking. According to the number of steps between the necessary cities and actual cities in the homes of older citizens, it is third only. However, the current government of John Janša has decided not to help the elderly in their search for a safe age. Instead of public non-profit care, Mr. Minister, you decided to build a private concession home under the tactics of the Austrian corporation Aha Gruppe, which should also manage this home and associated protected apartments in the future. But Bishop Lok is a working place. According to the Association of Pensioners of Škofja Loka, two-thirds of pensioners are leaving, as far as they can go, with very low pensions. It is difficult for caregivers in public homes to afford, not only in a private corporate home that charges them and their families not only supplies but also profits. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary. What other administrative steps are needed to build the home of older citizens in the former military barracks in Škofja Loka? When is the home supposed to become a function and come to life? What is the estimated cost of accommodation in the home of the elderly and/or protected dwellings? How much money would the state need to take over this project, take it to the end and offer to the elderly in the autumn of their lives what they need – a safe age with public non-profit care, without a private corporation that would further account for profits on them and on their property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Kordish, thank you for this question. The past decade has been a perfect stagnation in the care of the elderly. This has been most brutally faced by residents and residents of homes for the elderly throughout Slovenia, as well as employees and employees in these homes. The current government and the Ministry of Labour with their team responded as quickly as possible to the epidemic situation where we and the Ministry of Health acted quickly. And on the other hand, my ministry responded with a systematic investment in, firstly, the infrastructure for the care of the elderly. This means to build and rebuild existing inappropriate and completely obsolete and obsolete, abandoned if you want, home. On the other hand, in order to improve the situation of employees, additional large resources for additional staff and to raise the salaries we have achieved over the past two years speak for themselves. And thirdly, we have also responded systematically — by adopting the Long - Term Care Act, which will somehow place the full care of the elderly on a common denominator, and, of course, it will put help at home as a bearer form of care for the elderly. Let me also say immediately that it is demagogic to place concessionaires, which are also part of a public network, in any other light. The public network in Slovenia consists of public operators and concessionaires who provide public care to the elderly. On the one hand, we responded to the Ministry of Labour with clear investment from European funds, European funds and, on the other hand, from the budget. I repeat, ten years ago was not the case. And in this way, we will first replace, make up for, and lay the groundwork for the care of the elderly in the coming decade. Let me say that in the area of the elderly we have also raised pensions several times, added covid supplements and followed another supplement to respond to the energy supply. With regard to House Hmelin, home for older citizens, d.o.o., which was on a public invitation to tender, which ended in early February 2022, was successful and awarded a concession to build a home for the elderly in Škofja Loka, namely 156 beds. According to the project schedule, it is envisaged to obtain administrative permits in the spring of 2022 and to build by 31 December 2023 when the home is to begin work. You also asked about supplied apartments in Škofja Loka. As such, housing provided does not fall within the social protection public service network, nor does it fall within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, so we are not responsible for their construction. In addition to the basic activity, the Hmelina House in Škofja Loka, i.e. institutional protection for 156 people, is expected to offer the following forms of assistance to the elderly: assistance at home for an estimated 30 users, daily protection for an estimated 10 users and delivery of lunches for users from the local environment, which will of course depend on the expressed interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you, Chairman. I'm complementing my original question because apparently Minister Brickler King overhears him. In the area of the care of the elderly, a crisis that has not been brewed by the current government has already taken place, but rather than being solved by the current authority, it wants to build a business for private contractors on the plight of the elderly and their families in the absence of beds in the homes of older citizens. Concession homes are particularly problematic because on average they account for a poor third of the higher supply, as calculated by public non-profit homes. Among the areas most affected by the shortage of cities in the homes of older citizens, Škofja Loka found herself in a troublesome third place after lack of beds. We are running out of 170 beds, but, Mr Minister, instead of taking action and taking care of building a solidarity public infrastructure that would serve the inhabitants and residents of Škofje Loka, you have decided to abolish this location to a private Austrian corporation that will not only charge residents the cost of supply but also profit. Again, according to the Association of Pensioners of Škofja Lok, two thirds of their membership — and membership is measured in thousands — on such low pensions that public care is difficult to afford, let alone private, where they have to pay their profits. That's why I'm curious again, and I'm asking again: What will be the cost of care in this home of elderly citizens in Škofja Loka in the area of the former barracks? And how much resources would the state need to carry out its basic social tasks, so that the project builds the elderly in Škofja Loka to buy it and organise it as an infrastructure of social solidarity as public and non-profit?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you for the supplementary question, Mr Kordish. I am correcting your statement, namely in the area of the care of the elderly there was a crisis in Slovenia, but this government team and the team of the Ministry of Labour responded immediately to this crisis and began to resolve it multiple-layeredly. First, intervention, together with the Ministry of Health, in response to covid, secondly, systemic, at three levels. Investing in infrastructure – from virtually no investment in the past decade we have currently opened 108 investments in public infrastructure in the whole of Slovenia for the care of the elderly; these will be new, modern, renovated homes for our elderly fellow citizens and fellow citizens. On the other hand, we went to inappropriate salaries of employees in nursing homes. We did not stop — as in the past decade — from making promises and saying what is needed. We have also done these things that needed to be corrected. We have raised wages, provided intervention funds for more than 650 additional employees in homes for older people throughout Slovenia; and, thirdly, we have systematically placed long-term care on a new level, by adopting the Long-Term Care Act. Whoever wants to hear it, hears it and understands it. With regard to the inclusion of investments in the cost of the care of the elderly, I find it totally inappropriate to mislead about the inclusion of the price. It is true that the investment in the supply price in concessionary homes was included, but the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia made it clear not long ago that the investment should also be included in the price of public homes, i.e. state homes. And because it is not and because it is not being taken into account and because unfortunately the past decade of the Ministry of Labour and the past governments have not had so much hearing to invest in the care of the elderly, they have left state homes without reconstruction, without progress, without new buildings; and we are now correcting this. In order to break up another family in this regard, we also have the Centre of Blind, Bad and Older Škofja Loka in Škofja Lok in Škofja Loka and together with him we are currently investing the House of Generations in Gorenje village, where the unit of daily protection and temporary accommodation of the elderly will be located in the municipality of Gorenje Vas – Poljane, in the village of Gorenje Vas. We are also investing in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you. My procedural proposal is for the National Assembly to hold a general discussion on the answer, rather, to the failure of Minister Cigler King to answer the question of the construction of a private concessional home of elderly citizens in Škofja Loka. He received a very simple demand, which we can call a social order, that is, how much the state would need the means to build a project at home in the former army in Škofja Loka to take over and carry out as a non-profit solidarity project, rather than according to existing plans, where the home of the elderly is to be built by the Austrian corporation Ahasuerus, which will, of course, overtake the suppliers and their family members not only the cost of the supply, but also the cost of the investment, and also the cost of the profit. The bishop of Loka is a city of labor. Pensions are suitable. In public homes, it is difficult for elderly people to afford supplies that fly to the sky, not only in private concessions, which on average account for a poor third of the higher supply. Of course, the basic task of the social state would be to actively enter and ensure their safe age with non-profit care as a basic human right in the care crisis, where we have as many as 12,000 elderly people in the ranks of older citizens. But no, the previous governments have become fully engrossed in the care of the elderly, and the current government is taking advantage of the pressure to provide an additional business for corporations and its own government friends in order to earn extra money in this established crisis of the elderly. In Levica, of course, we strongly oppose this. As a member from Škofja Loka, for 15 years I have lived a hundred metres away from the planned location of this new home, I can point out that not only in the case of the current government and Minister of the Cigler King, we will continue our efforts in Levica to take over this project, as well as all others, and to organise it as a publicly-profit infrastructure of social solidarity. For what else do people pay taxes in this country, rather than making sure that they are treated at the age of old as people who have contributed to society, should society now return this to them at a safe age?Oh, my God! Not that people with low pensions resulting from working wages are even sentenced to the role of dairy cow for some foreign corporations at an old age.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March, in the framework of the votes. Vojko Starović will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Vice-Presidents, colleagues and to the distinguished Minister! Mr Minister, I am interested in your view as a prominent member of the NSI and as well as the Minister for the Family, your view on the proposal from the NNSI electoral programme, which was recently published and declared adopted for 2022-2026. This electoral programme envisages the introduction of a voucher for young people between the ages of 18 and 29 to participate in health and quality partnership programmes and preparation for marriage. Funds would be financed from the budget, i.e. from public funds. That's what I'm interested in: How do you explain these sheepfolds and programs for which this sheepfold is intended? How would we define the criteria for the recipients of the vouchers and how for those in this area who would provide education and practically receive funds from the public treasury? I believe that you have experience in this area and that you also have an opinion, because in the Institute of Honesty, whose co-founder you are, such activities have already been carried out. There was also some suspicion about you, but the fact is, you stepped down from the property of this institution three days before you became Minister. Now I want to know: Will all young ones receive these shepherds? Even in spite of sexual orientation? What is the content of these educations? Are these the same doctrines that the Catholic Church is pursuing? This preparation for marriage, church law, is already being carried out within the Church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you, Mr. Vojko Starovic, for that question. Since my term of office, one of the main three priorities has been family policy and its strengthening. The family is the basic cell of society and therefore needs to be protected or, on the other hand, to be preventive in order to prepare young people as best as possible for partnership, for marriage. The volunteers you ask me about, I must say that I was already happy at first, that you obviously have such a proposal, and then you stated that this is from the NSI programme – Christian Democrats; they could be a very good preventive measure to protect and facilitate young people's decision on a better relationship and better preparation for marriage. The Family Code stipulates that marriage is a marriage of a husband and wife whose conclusion, legal consequences and termination are governed by this code; and that the importance of marriage is in the founding of a family. The marriage is based on a free decision to enter into a marriage, on mutual emotional attachment, mutual respect, understanding, trust and mutual assistance. I personally see partnership programmes as extremely positive. The programmes present preparations for future joint family life, marriage life and the commitments and challenges it brings. Their aim is to strengthen the relationship between partners, provide more detailed information on the basis of marriage, exchange of experience and others. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, there were 340 marriages in Slovenia in 2020, even more than 340 marriages. In 2019 this number amounted to more than 371 divorces; in 2018, 323 divorces per thousand marriages were concluded. In comparison, I state that 30 years ago, in 1990, this number was 218 divorces. The number of marriages is high in Slovenia, with divorce especially in the event of major conflicts between partners leaving the highest tax on children. Programmes for a healthy and quality partnership and preparation for marriage are therefore extremely important from a preventive point of view, according to our assessment. Finally, honourable Member, for many situations in life and knowledge we are being educated, trained, prepared; for good partnership, for common marriage and family life, we are not getting enough. I think it would be a fresh, good option to encourage young people to prepare for a common life.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? [[Yeah.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u163	I want to complete the question. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question, I'm going to repeat it, it all sounds like it's meant to be in the spirit of the Church, in the spirit of Catholic science. Therefore, the question was: Who's going to do the counseling? After all, Mr Minister, when it comes to partnership relations, our family is also recognised as an extra-marital community. We have to take this, this is the situation, and we know that this is big, even in young people there is a lot of that. And at no time have I been against these shepherds to advise, but it is a matter of partnership. It is also a partnership between sexually oriented people. It's a relationship when a community builds and builds something and they do something, that's what it's about. All I asked was that this would not go in the direction of Christian science and that it would not be an organization that would advise — so according to the media, Mr Minister, it is written — that it would be priests. How will the clergy counsel on a partnership if they themselves are not allowed to have a partnership? It's spinning. After all, your member Jože Horvat said – Slovenia and Europe will be Christian; or they will not. That sounded so ominous to me. Get me Styrian back German. It's not like that. So the fear that this is present is going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you, Mr Starovic, for the supplementary question. For a healthy society, in my personal opinion and in the opinion of the teams at the Ministry, quality interpersonal relations are crucial. Good relations within families also create a harmonious environment that can meet both partners and offers children a safe and stimulating environment for their development. I think it's our common desire and, I can say, a need. Let me seriously present to you the results of a number of research and analysis of the interkoronic and postponal period and the impact of these measures, lockdown, restrictions on association, closed schools and so on on the family life. Many experts note and point out that the Coronavirus epidemic has further exposed a number of difficulties within Slovenian families, which are certainly due to irregular relationships. The largest victim, respected, of these epidemics or of these irregular relationships, who were certainly already present before the epidemic, and the epidemic only reinforced it, but they were children and adolescents. The NGO TOM reports that compared to the average between 2015 and 2019, the number of calls by adolescents who think or threaten to commit suicide increased for the most horrifying 72%. The number of calls made by adolescents in the age category above 19 years, which is most often associated with the student population, has increased by 78%. In the cycle of talks on better Slovenia, President ŠOS Andrej Pirjevec stressed that the psychological situation of young people is one of our key but completely ignored challenges. And also analyses, studies of the interkoronic period show that families or partner communities with regulated relationships were much more resistant to these shocks brought by the coronary epidemic; and certainly the crown was not the first or the last similar crisis. Even with many hardships, currently with Russia's terrible aggression against Ukraine, we are coping with this and it brings new hardships, new traumas to our family. How can we better prepare for resilience than with preventive programmes to prepare for quality partnerships and quality family relationships, rather than with such courses as you mention them?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I didn't really get the answers. Thank you. I fully agree with you that this is a problem and that it is useful and all. My only question was who would do this and whether this could be done in the Catholic spirit of public money. The fact is that the Church is increasingly appearing in public newspapers, on public television, we have an increasing number of these programmes. Then we also increasingly support it, even more than students, and this raises the issue of constitutionality. 7. Article 7 of the Constitution states clearly: The State and the religious communities are separate. The second paragraph says that religious communities are equal; their operation is free. I therefore propose that these issues be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister of Environment and Space mags. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! Recently, Minister Vrtovec has upset the population in Istria, as well as the wider statement, I quote: “The construction of the LNG gas terminal must be a priority.” The statement in question was, to say the least, inappropriate, in our view irresponsible, especially taking into account the documents currently adopted, so I am talking about the adoption of the 2009 Adriatic Strategy Resolution. Let me also remind you again today of the long-standing struggle of the local population and politics and the strong rejection of the intention to build a gas terminal in Žavaje. Such a statement certainly shows a lack of awareness of the circumstances, studies and, ultimately, does not lead to Slovenia's energy independence, as it would still depend on imports and not on its own renewable resources. Dear Minister, I will list some reasons why any construction of gas terminals in Istria cannot possibly be taken into account, based on the professional argument used in the discussion on terminals in Žavaje. Firstly, in shallow waters such as the Gulf of Markets, both construction and operation of either a terminal on land or one on the sea with the influence of large liquefied gas tankers would result in the lifting of live silver-gapped mud from the seabed; and mercury would end up in fish stocks. Live organisms, not just fish, would eventually destroy even a few degrees below the water temperature generated by the process of converting gas from a liquid aggregate to a gaseous state. In the event of a potential risk of accidents of any kind and possible sabotage or terrorist acts, several kilometres of safety ranges are prescribed around such terminals and tankers. The highest security protocols do not exclude the risk of a disaster that would occur due to a mistake or intentional act and would have the worst consequences at the terminal. Both Trieste and the coast of Istria place considerable money not only on the maritime economy, but on tourism. To tourism. The incinerator would gradually crush this industry. And if we already needed a lifetime supply of natural gas to the northern Adriatic, or if we didn't have enough existing terminals, it has another alternative in the immediate vicinity. That is why I ask you first, Minister Vrtovec: Do you insist on the statement you made on Twitter? Why do you insist on this statement? Why did you even open the debate in such a way as to upset the local population? Where would we even build a terminal that is not spatially planned, and the VAT for the port of Cyprus does not provide for it? And the distinguished Minister Visjak: Do you, as environmental minister, support the idea in question? If so, are you aware of the environmental risks, environmental burdens that such an intervention would bring to the local environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Minister Gardener, please. May I have your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you so much for asking. This statement was very thoughtful, and I wrote it down. And what I write down is true. And it was very suitable for the time we are in, that is, the energy crisis, when we depend exclusively on Russian gas in Slovenia. Not only in Slovenia, but also in other Central European countries. And for this Russian gas, we also pay dearly with this money that's just being collected. Finally, all military actions against sovereign, democratically elected states are financed. I therefore insist that the statement was appropriate and, even at a given time, extremely thoughtful. But it is reckless that we are people against everything, against everything, but we would like to have open radiators and warm apartments in the winter. That's the problem. We wouldn't want anything, but we'd like to have enough electricity, we'd like to have warm flats, radiators on full power, all the way forward; but unfortunately it won't work. Let me say that Germany has decided, carefully, that the German Energy Minister is a member of the Green Party, Germany has decided to build two new LNG terminals in a short time. Why? Because they want to be less energy dependent on imports of fossil fuels from Russia. I stress this second part – let us be careful about how we will build Slovenia's energy independence from – pay attention, hold, gas is not Slovenian – especially from Russia, which violates all the principles of democratic society, the sovereignty of other countries and so on. Even with our money, including our money, with the monthly bills we pay for Russian gas. And this is no longer a question of sovereignty, but it is an ethical question. With this money they die, you see pictures, children, grenades fall on maternity homes, orphanages and so on. As a result, this declaration is also a matter of ethics.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Since I have also been an energy minister in one of the previous mandates, I would like to highlight one of the issues that we have always raised in this country and the current government, that is, that the goal of Slovenian energy policy is reliable, secure, sustainable and competitive energy for all. That's what they say about the population and the economy. Europe is too dependent on one natural gas supplier. This has proved to be the most true of all during this period. And you need to know that today, Europe is contributing around €1 billion a day to arms and war in Ukraine by financing current contracts. I think it is unwise that this is not good and that all efforts to diversify supplies, including natural gas, are welcome. But conditionally, in an environmentally acceptable way. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we do not yet have any concrete project that could be assessed or defined in any way. In principle, we support the diversification of resources and transport routes to Slovenia. We also support, and how else, the development of renewable energy sources, which I think are my first priority. Priority is also a reliable and competitive supply. What helps us is a solar power plant on a residential roof in winter when 14 days is cloudy and minus 15 degrees. Who will then provide heat and electricity to this same apartment house if not to other sources of energy? Therefore, with renewable resources, we also need to develop reliable supply, as well as renewable sources of priority, and the reliability of the provision of priority. And at a competitive price. This is acceptable to our wallets or to our average salary in this country. Respectfully, the concrete answer to your question is that once we have a project on the table, we will also define the environmental acceptability of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Ambassador, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was hoping that your answer would somehow appease the local population. But I find that we've heard a lot of some flossules and no real answers. As a magistrate of international law, I am very well aware of what Russia's war aggression means to Ukraine. But my question was not based on this, but on whether you insist on building an LNG terminal in Istria, although you know that at the moment the four Istrian mayors oppose it, the entire local population opposes and that it is at least twofold that this country has fought a terminal in Italy, in Žavaje, for 15 years that we have driven it to Brussels and that we are now changing our thesis overnight. That's unacceptable. They won't let that happen in Istria. And of course it is necessary to seek diversification, but this should go in the direction of alternative energy sources. Anyone who knows Istria knows that 14 days of clouding is a very rare thing. There are a lot of sunny days, so diversification in this case is permissible, even in the way that we get our own energy sources; not that we remain energy dependent on imports. With such an aboriginal, catastrophic project, we would essentially put people's lives at risk, our own people, if such a disaster were to happen, how would you justify it? The environment, the lives of people in Istria – it would be unacceptable to insist on such an unwise project. I really hope that both ministers will think carefully and that we would rather focus on projects that are sustainable, which are environmentally friendly; and that you also mean 42 kilometers of the coast of Slovenian Istria much more than from today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u177	It's just time for this idea to come back on track again because of what we've been talking about. You mentioned renewable energy. Yeah, but we have a big problem in this country. Mr Vizjak is coming from Posavje, where we are essentially dealing with one hydropower plant, the last in the Sava power plant chain, we have been fluctuating for five years, stepping in place for Mokrice, and there is nothing renewable. We built two wind power plants a while ago. We have two windmills in your immediate vicinity. In Crassus, one of the congregations, I think, voted against the wind field two months ago. 14 days ago there was such a decision in another Slovenian municipality. We would like to have enough electricity, we would like to have an electric car, of course, we would like to have a cooling apartment and a heat pump in winter ; but without nothing. [[…]] We're against everything and we're gonna have to make a decision. Once again, here is the idea to start again with this debate, which is what other EU Member States are doing, let me say – in particular Germany. Let me just say that the second stream was interrupted and they started building new LNG terminals, interesting. This is one of the solutions to reduce dependence on Russian gas imports. So there's no project, there's no story at the beginning, but there's a public debate right now, which is what you're asking me, is a debate, we're at this stage. The minister didn't get anything on the table and he won't get it because we're in this period. The tweet and the statement were meant for you to ask me now that we're starting a debate. Isn't it nice? That's it. But when the time is right, we will continue with environmental acceptability and so on, but ask people. Even in Cyprus, on the coast, when the 5th degree is blowing a nice storm and it's very cold, ask them if they'd be in an apartment that's cold and doesn't have a chance of long-distance heating. We've been there before. It's just times like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u178	You have 21 seconds. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u179	So again. In principle, rejecting the project before it is on the table and before an environmental assessment is made, is wrong. Today, technologies are completely different than when you talked about this in the work of the Slovenian Coast, for 5 years. There's a lot going on in here. First, let us put the project on the table and look at the environmental impacts. I, Your Honor, realize that social acceptance is extremely important for such a project. We will respect everything — social acceptance and environmental impacts — and find a compromise.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Moving on. Let's move on. Natasa Sukic will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u181	Nice greeting, Minister, for the last time in this term, because we usually talk at almost every session. Right at the beginning of your term of office, you performed a very thorough political clean-up within the Police and, so to speak, you replaced virtually all the top police representatives and all the most important leaders. Warnings about the political pressures, criminal transfers and sanctions of all those who have somehow tried to continue to operate professionally and autonomously, somehow independently, they are already raining the entire mandate from all sides, because we know this, so finally we have an investigative commission. But these suspicions about the political pressures and influences on independent police investigations and police procedures are becoming more and more vocal for the mother of all your affairs. I am talking, of course, about the controversial acquisitions of protective equipment, whose main actor, the star of this affair, is Minister Restorationšek, who is in a criminal investigation and where there was a lot of interesting happening, from Nova24TV's day before the house investigation already announced this on his portal, to the fact that Minister Restoring was in no way able to remember his code for unlocking the phone and then we had to pay the taxpayers dearly by going to unlock the phone abroad. Now it has been said for some time now that this criminal investigation is to be completed. But when the media asked the National Investigation Office in February whether the case was already completed, they received an answer that they could only confirm that the NPU investigators were still conducting the forecasting process. Then the media checked it out at the U.S. Attorney's Office, leading and directing the investigation. The answer was: “We inform you that we have not received any criminal charges yet, and we explain that all the acts carried out were related to the guidelines of the State Prosecutor’s Office.” In translation, what does that mean? Everything that had to be done was done, but it is interesting — where are the results now, where is it stuck? That's what I want to know: How is it possible, Minister, that we get mixed signals like this? And after they asked the NPU again, they still didn't get anything. What's actually going on? Let us explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sukich, for the question. Thank you, too, for that introductory part when you said that we ask and answer so many times. I must say, I just missed your question, he wasn't at the last session, you let one go, but whatever. First, let me say that some of this has already been asked or presented on your part or that you have already requested these answers on an investigative committee. I think I've explained enough there, which, of course, I can explain myself. Once again, let me say that I must not engage myself directly in any proceedings and that I am not involved. We have also done what many have somehow misunderstood or, in fact, misinterpreted by amending the Law on Organization and Working in the Police, if we are to allow some political interference in open procedures when we wish to have written guidance from the Prosecutor's Office. On the contrary. We have done so in order to know when and at what stage the prosecution has taken over this procedure without relying on any oral notice from the police. As far as this is concerned, things are completely clean here. Of course, I also have to categorically deny what you initially said we were doing some political cleansing. I have to say, I was very surprised today when I read this in the paper about the former director of the NPU. That sounds scary to me. The man you have been defending in this House from the first to the last day, we have been talking about how we have politically eliminated him, how we have mistakenly replaced him, what terrible results he has had, is more than obvious, I would say, deep down with fingers in marmalade. Of course, we cannot condemn him because the matter is only in the stage of the complaint, but it is more than obvious that his work will even be carried out by the European Prosecutor's Office, given that it is a matter of European resources, which, of course, puts on or rejects everything that has always been said about how the NPU has worked successfully under his leadership. [[…]] I am also very surprised, but of course it is not your fault that it will not be misunderstood, but I am very surprised by what I have already said several times that the President of this commission of inquiry, who is investigating the political influence or subordinateness of the police to politics, did not want to report on the work of the NPU from 2015, when this government was far away, to this day no one has dreamed of this government. In 2015, a review or control of the NPU was carried out and it was found that catastrophic things were standing in drawers after half a year, for the right ones, not for the wrong ones, for the right ones. There's a whole species in here, if you're interested, a whole series of 2015 findings, what was wrong with the NPU, so I'm surprised, of course, that this chairman of the commission of inquiry doesn't want to see or, I don't know, he's got his eyes closed before that. As far as the process itself is concerned, which you are asking me, where, of course, you have mentioned several times directly to Minister Počvalska. I must say that Minister Restoration has several times clearly answered the questions raised, and he has also denied the indications regarding the famous code that he had forgotten the code and so on. I think it's extensive and he's refused more than once. As far as the predictive process is concerned, it is. In this regard, the NPU has worked all along the lines of the prosecution, and it is true, as you have said, that all the guidelines given by the prosecution are obviously exhausted. So the D.A. just doesn't give direction anymore. And maybe, I don't know, but this is of course the NPU itself, because I'm not getting involved in this; maybe the NPU, regardless of the prosecution's direction, is doing some other predictive procedures or finding out any other irregularities. I'm sure they'll end the matter either as you all expect, by filing a complaint, or by filing a report. I don't know, but this is a matter that is in the hands of the NPU, but I can guarantee you that the NPU, regardless of whether it is in the process or whether it is being investigated, which of the ministers has been working professionally, no matter who is being investigated, and much different than what he was doing, will be more than obvious, the former NPU director mentioned today, who, by the way, is still in a lawsuit with the Ministry of Employment, although, as I said, we obviously or apparently caught him with his fingers in marmalade.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u185	Minister, I expected you to use these few minutes of your ability to talk about a lot of things that I didn't ask you at all. You know very well what time period the commission of inquiry is dealing with, it is logical that we are not dealing with 2015. It's a precise time period, you've just been deceiving it a little bit now. I'm not interested in this moment. However, I might be interested to know why Mitja Gregorc, who was one of the main members of the house investigation and who was also involved in the unlocking of the telephone by Minister Restovalsk, was removed from the investigation. By the way, I don't know why this phone dropped off on a expensive unlock abroad if everything is so innocent in this story. So why did this man land in Tacno, and now he's solving some old stuff? And why were the top criminalist Antolovič and Kekec expelled from the NPU after all? We're talking about these people, specific criminals, investigators. I am not really interested in the Director of Males right now, nor am I interested in what he is now accused of or not, I am even less interested in 2015 because the Commission has not dealt with this. And I want to know: Now who's working on the Restoration case if all these people, namely Gregorc, Antolovič and Kekec, were removed from the NPU? So who's working on this case, even though they're the criminals who were on this investigation, at least specifically Mitja Gregorc? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I don't know to give you names, because I don't even ask because I don't want to get into a position, but then someone will tell me why I'm interested in who's working on an investigation involving the acquisition of protective equipment. However, I can say that those whom you mentioned, who are no longer working, who are no longer working, were not removed because they would, under the terms, be politically disputed or politically inappropriate, but because their past results were not what they were expected to be. In particular, I also mentioned this report because otherwise I would not have mentioned it. This 2015 report speaks specifically of Mr Antolovič, specifically referred to as the deputy director of the NPU. In particular, he, who held him in the drawer, I think that, for more than half a year, a criminal complaint was filed by a criminalist, but he did not go on because he was obviously an investigator, or one who should have been involved in this complaint, with a real political field, which, by the way, often wins in the courts as usual, but was not the right one. And the gentleman would rather put it in the drawer and not put it forward. Maybe there's something else. I think that one of these gentlemen has done more than just the investigations – and I'm not even talking about whether it's Minister Restoration or any other investigation – he was involved in unionism. So instead of doing what the most eminent people in the NPU should be doing, the most prominent criminals, investigating crimes, dealing with whether a union confidant has the right to do just 20% of what he has to do, or whether he has the right to do 80% of an afne gunner, if I say bad, with unionism or something like that. I think it is right that the new director of things put things on her own, I would say, as things are served; and for example, she gave those people who are actually trying to investigate possible crimes; not that there are people sitting there or things investigating those who are more interested in what their salary is at the end of the month and how they pay as little as possible and how to deal with unionism as possible, rather than investigating themselves. I can only assure you that, under this leadership of the NPU, if the crime is detected against those who are supposed to do so, an indictment will be filed and nothing will be left in the drawer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u189	Sure. Although the mandate is due to expire, this is the case, things have become so complicated and complicated in these two years, in particular with regard to the Police and the National Investigation Office, that I think that we must also, in the next Parliamentary reference, if not earlier, carry out a thorough review of what has been going on, and that we must not be able to do anything like this anymore. I have no doubt that the process will, of course, be completed. I even hope to predict what the outcome will be, and I'd rather be quiet because I don't want to speculate like the minister you've been speculating about people all along. Interestingly, everyone is at issue, from Antolovič, okay, you found something in the drawer in 2015 or something. I don't know what Mitja Gregorc did. I don't even know what Kekec did. These are two top-notch criminals, both of whom today are in the so-called quiet room or think room, where they can think and think and think about what they've done to someone; they'll probably never reach out, except that they're not really political. And then you talk about everything being politically colored before, and now it's all innocent. That's amazing. But if you think you've convinced someone outside the circle of convinced people, those who follow you, you can say there's a full moon out there right now, and they'll believe you. I don't care. Surely you have not convinced anyone who is not within this circle of your loyal followers. I'm surprised, Minister, that you practically care that confidence in the police in your mandate has fallen so dramatically, both public polls and polls within the police themselves show. I don't want to comment on this about unionists again today, but you've taken the unions seriously in your mandate. All that you have brought to this last meeting before the end of your term of office today – but today I did not want to open these questions to understand each other, but in particular only this case was of interest to me – all of this must be truly sat down, analyzed and said that in some democratic country we cannot afford such things, so obvious a political influence, forgive as is evident from these changes, from how people really withdraw from examples, how everything is done to protect their own. Of course, you will protect Minister Restoration, however we turn around, and you protected him with this prediction that one day earlier he knew when the house investigation would be. This phone thing is a story that's amazing. I don't know why we paid a few thousand euros for it by taxpayers if [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u190	I'm afraid the time has run out. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Primož Siter will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počivalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Minister, hello! My question concerns the Sava region or the recently adopted Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine or its seventh, I think, episodes. When we talk about the closure of the Trbovlje, oak mine and the law that governs it, we are not just talking about closing the per se mine, but about closing the cave and formally closing up the workers' social situation and so on. We are also not just talking about environmental monitoring or environmental concerns, which are always and generally depreciated or degraded after mining. We're talking about the developmental restructuring of the region. And the development restructuring of the region, which comes in handy with this closure of the sussava mines, that is, in this case the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, is particularly problematic here. Why? Because mining closing works are not the only chapter in closing the mine or the mentioned law. Its legal predecessors, the predecessors of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine Close Act, took about 250 million euros to Zasavje, a quarter of a billion euros; in order to restructure the region. At home, it is said that now the region wonders what we will do now that this economic monoculture has stopped, what we will do now. And as a resident of Zasavje and someone living in parallel with the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, I can assess it over the eye like this, there is no need for any expert to be that this restructuring has never actually been done in practice. So we have a quarter billion hard marriage, hard investment in this direction. The last episode took place about a month ago with the new 11 million. To ministers responsible for both mine closure and some economic or comprehensive restructuring of the region, I ask the question: How did the funds under this law turn into a restructuring of the region? Why is it that, despite the means of purpose to ensure a fair transition, economic, environmental and social, the region has not yet been restructured economically and socially? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you for the questions. The ministers have an answer. The first one gets the word Minister Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you so much for asking. This law on the gradual closure of RTH is therefore a matter of two areas, as you yourself have stated, namely MZI and MGRT. The law was formally consummated at the end of 2020 before we adopted it last year. As a result, it was not possible to complete all the envisaged closures to remedy the consequences of exploitation and, as a result, it was not possible to complete administrative procedures for the complete and permanent suspension of mining operations and then to liquidate the company. After my two visits to Trbovje, a meeting with the mayor, we sat together twice, we were also in Hrastnik, we decided to adopt a new law. The National Assembly adopted it in December 2021, and then one month ago we prepared a mine closure programme for the period 2022-2023. And the program and the basis, which is the law, I signed the contract, I think on Friday, that these funds are transferred, but both the law and all the other bases are the first step towards really making the end of this long-lasting story for 30 years. What happened in front of me, I don't know. But I do know that today in your congregation there is a degraded area that is disorderly and that this needs to be rectified. Some company like Mine has no money. What do you do? We were faced with the challenge that this company had no money for a road in Lesa, Hrastnik, where there will be a new home for the elderly. So, we were before we did something. But we also have other options, here is the fund for a fair transition, this is also a matter of MGRT, and here there are additional financial resources available to go also to the Sava region where you can effectively pump and also allocate them to new jobs. As far as our programme is concerned, the aim of our programme, which is the basis of the law, is to complete the work that has not been done, to carry out or complete all the administrative procedures laid down in the law, to carry out monitoring and to maintain and remedy damage on the repaired surfaces, facilities and so on. In addition to maintaining clean areas and facilities, this damage would no longer increase in the future due to the effects of mining or safety threats. So we are spending more than €10 million in money to finally make things right on this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u195	Dear Member Primož Siter, President, National Assembly! Thank you for the question, too. You are primarily referring to the issue that has now been mentioned by a fellow minister. However, at the Ministry of the Economy, we are well aware of the importance of the economic and development restructuring of such areas and of regional development in this context, which we are paying important attention to. First of all, I will mention the programme to promote competitiveness and development support measures for the problem area with high unemployment in Hrastnik, Radeča and Trbovlje, which was implemented between 2013 and 2020. The amount of the resources realised was 26.5 million; the registered unemployment rate decreased from 19 % in 2013 to 11 % in 2020 during this period. In the framework of the programme, we supported 66 companies at MGRT with subsidies, with loans, with refunds – 79, and 250 companies benefited from tax relief. The implementation of the programme has reduced development frameworks, stimulated economic factors and reduced backlogs and created conditions for economic growth. We continue to have great opportunities to make use of the fund for a fair transition. Over the last two years, it has been the case that the Sava region and the promotion of entrepreneurship have been paid EUR 4 million in non-refundable terms, under the terms of the agreement for the development of the region – €18.7 million, for 9 projects under the European Regional Development Fund – EUR million, co-financing – 1.4 per year to municipalities funded by municipalities. By 2021 the municipalities received this money directly as a means of purpose, which also simplified procedures and reduced bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you, too. Mr Member, you have the floor to request that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, ministers, for your answer. I won't question the numbers because they're recorded and probably holding. Nor will I embark on the intentions or goodwill of the current government. My question is: Why do you think this is so, despite the numbers you both have served now, and I have initially added a quarter million at the beginning, it does not translate into the ground, it does not actually translate into meat, it does not translate into the restructuring of the region, it does not translate into jobs, it does not translate into GDP per capita, it does not translate into a regulated infrastructure, into the rehabilitation of degraded areas? That's my question. The question of someone who lives this degradation of the environment and who would like to live also the restructuring of the region. Zasavje has the lowest GDP per capita in Slovenia, I have data for 2019 – 12 thousand 287 euros. The Slovenian average is about 23,000, say half. 52% of the people from Zasavje are going to work elsewhere, above average unemployment at the start, not to talk about transport infrastructure and so on. My question is not, in fact, what has happened or what is meant to be done, but why nothing is done. You are people at the top of your headquarters, with the best view of how these funds are translated into practice. My question is: Why haven't these things worked out so far? And your hand on your heart, even in the last two years, when you're headed by your headquarters, things haven't really moved too far into the flesh here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you, too. Minister, you have 3 minutes to respond both. Which one's first? Minister Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u199	When I came to our department two years ago, these funds were emptied, which is why the law was drawn up. First we went to the field to look and things weren't done despite the 250 million euro stake. So you have to ask, can any other authorities ask where that money went? And because the degraded areas were not regulated, we have provided additional funds to be settled in the next period: €2022 – 4.2 million for the regulation of degraded areas, €4,5 million for 2023 and €200,000 for the closure of the works by the end of 2023. This will go directly from the budget. The Ministry of Infrastructure has these financial resources, it will receive them directly and they must do and report that they have done things, it is said that degraded areas are arranged and that they build the road they are obliged to build to be a home for the elderly in Hrastnik. Without the financial resources, when we arrived, there was nothing we could do. But this is a question for many governments back what they were doing, but we know what the structures of governments were in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you. Minister Restoration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u201	I have to say, in contrast, that I have been involved in this story since 2014. And I said that during this period 26.5 million from our ministry were invested, that we supported 66 companies with grants, 79 with loans and that the tax relief benefited 250 companies. We can't say nothing's moved. In this context, unemployment has decreased from 19% to 11%, in fact in a significant proportion with daily migration, but it is also true that the activity of highly successful and high-tech enterprises has expanded significantly. At least two, three were created in Trbovje, or they were created earlier, but they have now expanded, the development that we must say we can be proud of in Slovenia. The restructuring of one such coal-mining region is difficult and long-lasting. I am pleased that, from now on, we will have a huge amount of resources available from the Recovery and Resistance Plan; only at our Ministry, 646 million for the whole of Slovenia. A significant proportion goes to Zasavje. Within the Fair Transition Fund, a significant share is also earmarked for companies from Zasavje. I will honestly say that I am optimistic about the development of this region, which has an industrial tradition; and I believe it will only show its power in the next period.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. On this occasion, I will congratulate the Ripper economists. I think they're very successful in themselves. Now I don't know if state aid here was crucial in their successful economic story, I'd rather be rooting here for progressive ways of organising a company, such as co-ownership between employees and so on. But okay, that's another story. We have two key issues here in the matter that I have raised, Mr Secretary-General. One is a global problem, like society, we say goodbye to the use and production of fossil fuels, which leads us to have some regions that can no longer live on. We have a fund for a fair transition that – now seen in times of crisis – essentially drives the consumption of fossil fuels, we have some non-binding policies, and we have – I'm moving from global to local – a quarter of a billion euros that went nowhere. Here I am, Mr. Wrotetz, I agree with you. Perhaps you are not the right address and the law enforcement authorities should be involved in this story and ask some questions. At the local level, I see that the government, after a quarter of a billion euros, which have been sunk into a story that does not exist, has in some good hope thrown 11 million more there without ensuring that this will happen. But the question is essentially what we can do here. The Damage is done. What can we do here now that the story will not prolong, repeat, or go deeper. One thing is, okay, I will make a procedural proposal that, at the next opportunity in the National Assembly, Members and Members should speak out on this. The second and most important thing is that all of us who are in such or different roles as decision makers in the country understand what a just transition means. A fair transition is not an abstract, esoteric, exotic concept of Greta Thunberg, but it is a thing which is here and now we can see how it should take place, say in Zasavje – at social, economic and environmental level. We are not just talking about the green transition, we are talking about decarbonising a society that is responsible for policy, so that it can manage things in a way that will not socially endanger the majority of the population, so that the economy survives and so on. It is not, however, that the Sava region or, I don't know, the great, Scottish region will again and continue to be black at the expense of some other green green policies of the green regions, only because some will be able to afford green policies from their own pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Minister! On 3 March 2022, i.e. ten days ago, a statement was published on the Eco Fund's website on the conclusion of the public call for citizens to obtain state aid in the construction of solar power plants. We were able to read in the notice that the next day the publication of this public call will be published – Irreversible financial incentives/aids for self-sustainment facilities. There is no doubt that interest in self-sustainment devices has been influenced by the prices of energy workers that we have witnessed in recent months and that will obviously continue. Due to the extremely large number of applications received, the funds foreseen by the Eco Fund for this measure in 2022 are already reserved, too small, inanimately defined in fact. At the same time, we were able to read a forecast in mid-March that there will be no more incentives for the installation of solar power plants in Eco this year. Given that the Ministry is responsible for the policy of promoting renewable energy sources, I am interested in: How do you comment on the fact that instead of finding new solutions, you people are learning that by the end of the year, which has barely begun, you cannot and will not help them with green energy? In the light of the Ukrainian crisis, this is an even more pressing issue. And in the same breath, you are among the first attackers in a campaign to ban the import of Russian gas, which is our basic energy. On government websites, however, we read that the Ministry will provide additional funding for the further deployment of electricity self-sustainment facilities, in view of its current interest in further intensifying green transformation in the field of renewable energy sources, and that the Eco Fund will publish a new public tender in a short time. So this is where we meet a discreet woman. You probably don't know what you're telling each other. I want to know: When can the invitation be expected? Are you able to provide sufficient resources for this year or even more than those who have so quickly dried up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. As much as this government has invested in the solar power plant in the last two years, no government has invested. And other renewable energy sources as well. And for that there are numbers proven. Indeed, the events of the last year on rising energy prices and the need for energy independence are certainly one of the key factors that have also given rise to an enormous interest in the irreparable financial incentives of this action implemented by the Eco Fund. If you were a Member of Parliament in 2014, you know that the Eco Fund does not belong to my portfolio. Is that right? But under the Department of Environment and Space. It is true, however, that all the programmes and other dimensions – such a green transition, the promotion of investments – we lead. Let me point out that on the last day of the open invitation to tender, in the last day, more than 8 000 applications were made for this measure. Over 8,000 deposits in the last day. And I am grateful in this place and ask people to continue to invest and promote renewable energy, especially solar energy. So we're on the right track. In order to meet all the needs of the public tender so far, it is clear that, given the large number of deposits received, at least EUR 15 million is needed. The first day the money ran out, we responded and said we would go, get the money together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, possibly here from other funds, sub-funds and so on. The money for this must be sufficient and the invitation to tender will be repeated in a short time. The thing is ready here. You know that the Eco Fund also receives a large share of the funds for the implementation of its programme, according to the basis it has in the Energy Efficiency Act, for the contribution it makes on the clock. But today, in the energy crisis, are we going to raise that contribution to make people more expensive? I don't think so. This moment is an inappropriate time. However, we have other financial resources available without burdening additional people without lifting the billboards. And I'm telling you, it's a matter of days when the funds will be back at hand or when the call will be repeated. We already have the means, we know where to draw them from, from this address. You mentioned one thing, and I quote you – "a Russian gas banter". Yeah. And I'm proud of that from ethical principles. This is because, when we pay dearly for this gas and Russian oil, the last aggression against sovereign countries, grenades and bombs on maternity homes, orphanages, children and so on is financed. And I am proud to say that I am against this kind of regime that is being implemented in Russia. And I will continue to be in such positions because I am a democratic and I believe in human rights and I am against the war that is currently being waged in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you, Vice President. We are the same here, Mr. Minister, that we are both sworn Democrats. And I even think I'm a little bit more like you, but we can't argue here. The point is, we don't have an alternative. And that you now recognize that you are a stormman; I don't know where you will be when our hospitals may be cold, when our schools are cold, when our homes are cold, and when they still have Russian gas in the neighbouring countries, and we won't, because you — and yours — were such a stormeer. In this sense, it is good to reconsider and let down a little of this ridge. Because of the need to think first of all about the elementary, and then on some broader discourse show your altruism. Slovenia must remain independent in three areas: food, energy and financial. And what I am asking you is primarily for energy, because of this, of course, the new government will be fighting, but you have the opportunity to be a minister in this department, and at that time you can still spare and find ways to get additional funds. Because you know, you say you're encouraging people to invest, but it's hard for someone to invest in these solar power plants, knowing that they've got a lot more incentives than the state, and they're not going to get anything. It's hard to count on understanding here. Of course it's not the same. So we're more energy independent when we have clear reserves and then we're also spreading out, of course, in a different sense. I also wanted to say that you are in the same party with the minister, who is trying to get a lot of our money out of the way, for example, by buying some armored combat vehicles for these desert conditions, which is unnecessary especially because we do not know at any price what they will be bought. Let us first fear that we will not have an energy desert and then some others. That's why I think I can ask you for an additional answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u211	Peace has no price. And human life has no price, Mr. Ambassador. As far as oil is concerned, this part of energy, on which Slovenia is extremely dependent on imports from Russia, I can say that this is not a problem. The entire world system depends on 12 percent of the supply from Russia. The world and suppliers can somehow dissipate the terms of supply and balance it. Surely the gas is a tougher story, which is why we are going to Italy in the coming days, and we are finally discussing how to diversify Russian gas from African countries. You know this interconnection between North Africa and Italy exists. We also have a very powerful compressor station at Šempetr near Novi Gorica. This moment has the ability to convert gas into 3.5 million cubic metres per day, with Slovenia's final consumption, is called winter peaks, is 4.5. So we have options, and finally we are also talking to neighbouring Croatia if from the LNG terminal in Krk, because they are independent of imports from Russia, they get any other gas of another origin. Why am I saying this? Because sooner or later – it is not a question of when or not a question of if, but the question is when will spontaneous diversification take place. After all, it will be a fact. Let me just say that we need to talk to other suppliers and for oil as soon as possible — let me say that we are going to Qatar on 23 March — and also for gas. For the security of supply from Russia in the face of such threats and the assumption that peace has no price, but this is not a matter of reliable care, at least not under such conditions. More and more European countries are aware of this. The European Union is now dependent 40 per cent on Russian gas. And you know what kind of version paper was adopted, in what form. Are you also interested in foreign policy? Read it because I think it is very detailed about how we will gradually abandon the use of fossil fuels and imports from Russia. That's a fact. But if this aggression and these military conflicts on the part of Russia take place, my assessment is such that it will happen much sooner than gradually, but very quickly, because it is the only source. For example, if we buy for a billion euros on Russia's gas day, Europe, this is a very big and painful blow on the other hand to finance the Russian army and aggression.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you. My procedural proposal is just going in the direction that the Minister's response shows that a broader debate is needed on this issue. Actually, all these trips are just promises, and we don't know what's going to happen, whether or not the arrangements are going to be made. All these manufacturers and distributors are looking to get as many consumers as possible. We're pretty small, just because of the number theory, because our population is the way it is. For this reason, I think it is essential that we hold a debate to see how it is possible to continue to finance renewable energy sources, invest in these renewable sources, and, of course, then you will have the opportunity to make your point of achievement, whether what you have just said has worked out in a contextal and future time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u215	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are all aware that infrastructure is very important for the development of Slovenia and that it strengthens its geostrategic position. One of the more important projects is, of course, the second track project, which was successfully completed by your predecessor, you started building, and, of course, a lot of questions about construction are emerging. I have been informed that the second track is supposed to be subject to requirements for annexes or even to orders for additional and multiple works, and that the operators of these several parts should be told to wait until applications are submitted for these applications to be dealt with after the elections. I want to know: Are there any requests for additional parts? Did the engineer or the contracting authority order them? Are there any such requirements or instructions to sign an annex after the election? So are there any promises to wait for requests to invest in elections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u217	The second track is finally being built and started in the mandate of this government. Thank you to all those who are involved in this and are working hard. Of course, the contractor has the right to submit such requests as you say if he considers them justified; some have been paid out in your mandate, and in this mandate in essence, I think one in July, but it is still due to the previous mandate. Everything else you asked me is, "No." No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. You said there were demands that some were not approved. I want to know: How many of these requirements are there and how much are there? Are these requirements included in the building log and the book of calculations? These are basically mandatory two books on the site. If these two books are recorded and are not subject to a contractual provision, then there is a reasonable claim on the basis of the entry in these two books for the recognition of additional costs. That's why I want to know: How many of these annexes are there? What are the requirements for these annexes, and in what amount? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u221	There are no Annexes on the second track. I think I've made myself very clear before. They're gone. It's not a practice in this government. I don't know how hard it is to understand. We have promised this at the beginning of our term of office and hold it until the end of our term of office, and – if we are given another mandate to run the government and I will run this department – then there will also be no undue payments in the next term. It's very simple. I don't know how many projects are coming and what are the building desires of those who carry out projects through Slovenia. We have already answered your oral – I think a written question – for the period of my ministry on annexes, we have given you together for a period since the beginning of this mandate, and you have seen clearly how things are managed, right, and that annexation under this government is not a practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u223	That's it. Thank you very much. Of course, I have a procedural proposal based on the answer given me by the Minister, in which he did not answer my questions. I ask that the debate be held on this subject. I once again asked him clearly whether oral instructions were given to performers for the giving of works and the promise that these works would be paid and passed by elections. The Secretary-General's response was that they didn't sign any annexes. So this answer, his reply, requires a broader debate because he did not deny that there were no oral requirements and promises that the annexes would be consummated after the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask Justice Minister Marjan Dikaucic, who is justified. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u225	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I am very sad that today Mr Dikaucič, Minister of Justice, just before the speakers, apologized and did not come to the meeting to answer my question about not naming or arbitrary appointment of proposals for prosecutors. I thought he'd have more money or hope and come up with the answers we need. From September 2020 until now, about 20 people have been assigned to the post of Attorney General. And a number that actually represents about 10 percent of all prosecutors is still waiting for them to be named as prosecutors; it is said that they will be appointed as prosecutors. Now I have a question for Mr. Dikaucic. I'm interested in the following: How many nominations did your ministry receive from the State Prosecutor's Council during your government? Because the State Prosecutor's Council is the one who proposed candidates for prosecutors. How many proposals did the Ministry make to the government? How many have the government confirmed, and on what criteria? And tell me exactly: What does a thorough introduction of the candidates he spoke about in 2020 to Uk as a government press representative? Who's running this briefing? Who got everything and when did he get the material? What is being studied, and on what legal basis? What are some aspects of this reviewer’s knowledge of who is being reported to, and where are the reports or assessments published? I also want to know: Under what criteria and who decides not to include a preliminary or simultaneous proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council in a government meeting, while a specific meeting of the Government is immediately scheduled? Why is it that most people are not actually included in the meeting of the Government, and does the President of the Government have to give his personal opinion to each of them? This would, of course, be very controversial in this case, because it would mean that he, in fact, will decide who will be entitled to be called the prosecutor, or who will be able to act as the prosecutor. Once again, I am deeply sad that the last moment he apologized because I had the feeling that he would still hope to come to the meeting and answer these very pressing questions, which are in fact already dragging on for over two years, and that he would also take responsibility. Because most of the responsibility must also be aware of and must be borne by the right minister in this case, who is responsible for the appointment of these prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you, too. You haven't defined yourself, but in writing or verbally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. In fact, I would like an oral answer, but I'm afraid we'll see if we can get any more oral answers. [[…]] But I would insist on an oral response to identify or firsthand tell us why these delays, or these time limits, occurred in the appointments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you, too. Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Minister, first of all, I would like to point out that I am extremely pleased with this change in your attitude towards the refugee crisis and some new humanitarian note you are making. It is nice to hear it from your mouth, although a utopian and later even canceled forecast to receive as many as 200,000 refugees, even though this is about 10 per cent of the population of Slovenia – that is about as many as the SDS voters – and that would be about EUR 400 million per month. Before the elections, your SDS party strongly insisted that no refugee enter Slovenia alone. On the big jumbo posters, you published how one refugee costs the country a thousand 963 euros, says almost 2,000 euros, that poor pensioners live with the gods 400 euros a month. And we both know that this is a fraud, because it is clear that refugees are never responsible for the underpaid workers and therefore the low wages of our pensioners. So now all of a sudden you've turned the board around and you're talking completely different and I'm really curious why. Ukrainian refugees did not have to swim and drown in cold, weary rivers, and that is also the case. I know a family that accepted three Ukrainians, but the police's application procedure lasted for six hours, and these exhausted people were waiting with friendly police officers, and the police didn't even know what procedure to carry out, which forms they had to fill out. And let me point out, they were extremely kind, they were solidarity, they were cooperative and they were all praiseworthy. But the problem is another: there was no practice of granting international protection, so they first encountered this problem. I want to know: Why didn't you give the police stations instructions to treat refugees? Why did you not earlier allow those who fled war zones to gain refugee status with international protection? After all, it always hurts, and every day I remember her: Does the girl who drowned in Dragonja even have a name? Does he have a grave? Does her unhappy mother even know where her daughter is buried? Do you even know what happened to this unfortunate woman, where she is now? What is this mother less a mother, with less rights to protect her children than a mother, say, who is running to us now? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Tomic! Look, first of all, I have to say a few things first. I think it is right for those who watch this to know whether it is a matter of temporary protection, whether it is an international protection as a refugee, or whether it is a subsidiary protection. And maybe if I start where you somehow wanted me to say that we've turned the board terribly. Look, last year, after that expected exodus that was supposed to happen in Afghanistan, which of course didn't happen, we did exactly what we did today. We have said that the refugee routes are not wide open to Europe; there have been many meetings at the level of the European Commission with the first safe third countries around Afghanistan; that is Pakistan, all those countries that are there. And, of course, we have appealed to these countries that they are the ones to take care of, as far as this exodus might occur, of these Afghan refugees. And equally, we are doing exactly the same now. Now, of course, we cannot pretend that this is somewhere far away, that in fact Slovenia is not another safe country on this path to Hungary – if they travel through Hungary or now they are mainly going to Poland. Of course, we had to react in this humanitarian spirit, which you are talking about, because otherwise we would have been completely uncreditable if, in fact, we were speaking differently today than we talked about a year ago. Even that number, you know, that you're pushing up a little bit right now, maybe you could use it. I really said, I was talking about 200,000 refugees, but I wasn't talking about them being able, even though I believe that if we had to, we would have done that, too, we would have been able to provide them. Let me tell you that at this point about 8 thousand Ukrainians have passed through Slovenia, of course they are not refugees, they have gone to their relatives in Western Europe, mostly where this Ukrainian expatriate mother works to the greatest extent. At this point, however, there are some 900 of them who have already applied for refugee status. Now, let's be clear what the difference is. The activation of the law we activated follows the 2001 Directive. This Directive refers to the so-called mass arrivals of citizens from one country or from a group of countries where they are fleeing a war or other humanitarian disaster. And it is precisely because we do not burden these people with the very procedure of international protection – but in international protection we have two status; one is a refugee who can be entitled to refugee status as an international protection, but this refugee may not be entitled to this status and is entitled only to subsidiary protection. The difference is that when determining refugee status, each individual shall be treated individually. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct an individual interview with each individual, individually, to determine whether the situation he cites — in that country he is fleeing — is in fact what he states. And there's a whole bunch of other procedures. Therefore, as you know, this acquisition of refugee status is not so simple or takes quite a while. That is why this law has been predicted – it is also old, it is from 2005, so there must be a few ferrets or some mistakes in it, but thank God, Slovenia has this law. Many European countries, although the 2001 Directive is only now in force, are now adopting this law; it is said that it will now be adopted quickly because all those seeking temporary protection will not be subject to this long-term procedure. Here I can fully agree with you that in these first ten, 14 days there will certainly be some mistake, even if everything is not ready; not everything is ready, we did not know. After all, we have been waiting for ten days for some of the guidelines to be drawn up by the European Commission under the directive, so that these things will be roughly the same in this area, so that they will not happen, as is the case in the migrant area, that it is actually a trade: whether it is better to be in Greece or whether it is better to be in Germany, so not all remain in Greece, but all of them are fleeing to Germany. That is precisely why there is a need for some uniform rules, which unfortunately the Commission has not yet drawn up, and we, I estimate, have already done quite a bit. That's why I apologize to all those who waited a little longer, but the police have strict instructions to move as fast as possible with all these people. None of them will be individually interviewed, but will only be collected data: name, address, Ukrainian citizenship or status they have already obtained there and processed into further procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u233	Look, Minister, we could move forward if you could answer my questions. My questions were specific: Does the girl who drowned in Dragonja have a name? Where's she buried? Can her mother come to this grave — always saying that everyone has the right to a grave — and in what is this mother less than today’s mother who is fleeing from Ukraine? Let me ask you one more question. Maybe you're not familiar with Madonna from Gorlovka when we're talking about mothers. And I'm asking you all who are now listening to me and hearing you take your smart phones and Google and you'll find out who Madonna from Gorlovka is. I tell you very important things, because you are decision-makers who make decisions about things, you even talk about some ethical principles and pride and so on, you need to know what you're talking about. The Council of Europe is discussing today and I am a member of it, and I have participated until a little earlier and Malcolm Mamadou, he is the representative of the non-discrimination committee, he pointed out that a whole bunch of students from India, Africa and so on are stopped on the run, and that no humanitarianity should be distinguished on the basis of race, colour or country of origin. So I want to know: What is your opinion on this racist side of this refugee crisis? Because humanitarianism should in fact not be conditional. And we learned from the media that at the Ukrainian border, refugees who studied there and many have families and have children and babies with them. I think it's totally inexcusable and I'm interested in your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u235	Madam Member, of course, there is no difference between those ladies there who crossed Dragoja in terms of humanitarianism. But there's one big difference: I wonder why she crossed Draganja there. It could reach the Dragonje border crossing, as all these refugees from Ukraine are coming, and the same treatment as Ukrainian refugees would receive. And it was totally unnecessary for me to say that, under the influence of smuggling companies, someone had promised to come directly from Turkey to Germany or anywhere, perhaps even paid a lot for it. And that's what it takes to fight. We keep saying that whoever comes anywhere on the border fence, on the border block, will receive such or other supplies. Everyone will come into the procedure, either temporary protection, international protection, subsidiary protection, and there is no need for people to cross the Kolpa to tread over Dragonje or otherwise expose themselves. As far as I know, I don't know where this pricked kid ended up. I believe he was duly buried. I don't know. I don't know. But I do know that, after she returned to Croatia, she suddenly applied for refugee status there. I wonder why she didn't do it before, why it was necessary to lose a child to actually do something that you could have done 10 days earlier. I'm not accusing anyone, especially this mother, because she's probably been the victim of some people. By the way, there is so much money in this store today as in the drug trade; so this smuggling has spread so that it is in fact one of those crimes that we will have to fight most in the coming years. I don't know, I'll take a look at it, after you've said that name, then I'll Google it and I don't have time for what this is about, and we'll probably get out of it, as you say, what's useful. However, as regards the different categories, it must be said that the directive has activated temporary protection for three types; that is, for Ukrainians with their nationality, for all refugees who received refugee status in Ukraine, and for all those who in Ukraine, although foreigners, although from India, Pakistan, had permanent residence in Ukraine, worked there, even for them. So for the time being, they are included in this temporary category of these three categories and I must strongly deny that anyone or at any time at that meeting, when the interior ministers adopted this activation of the regulation, anyone would think of any racism or any other colour. But this information you have about rejection is, in my opinion, the fruit of the journalistic ducks.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u236	Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u237	I'm sorry, Minister, but that's a lot of hypocrisy; Pushbacks are said to be no longer journalists' ducks! They are documentary films, see Wica film, see Infocolpa and so on and do not close your eyes. And no! It's true, it's a very big hypocrisy that it's my mother's fault that she was swimming over Dragonjoy because she could have come to the border. It is clear that Pushbacks happen to take the phones away from refugees to return to Croatia, where police officers beat them badly. If you don't know that, then it's a shame that you're an interior minister, because you're obviously completely uninformed and you think you're all these journalistic ducks. In Slovenia, the anti-refugee policy and the promotion of hostility towards foreigners, which is largely the right, led by SDS and New Slovenia, is practiced. Over the years, asylum legislation has been so severe in our country that it is virtually impossible to obtain international protection in Slovenia. Last year, when you talk about how generous we are, only 17 applications for international protection were granted. Of course, competent institutions do not have any practice on how to do this. The problems are also in integration itself, in language learning, which is a condition for the further acquisition of all relevant documents and rights. Ukrainians too would like to work, activate and help and join society, but they cannot even reach kindergarten. Even though there's room in kindergarten, they don't have any information on how to charge them for kindergarten. And, you know, although they would now be accepted by the Ukrainians, the government would accept them open deadlines, but they also do not meet the conditions for obtaining the right to international protection, because asylum legislation is so acute for refugees from the Middle East. Of course, the government has now activated the Law on Temporary Protection of Displaced Persons. These people coming from Ukraine are allowed to obtain special status for a period of one year and once the possibility of a double extension is exhausted, these people will need to be re-established in the long term. In short, I want to know: Are you already preparing changes to asylum legislation that would allow this status to be regulated? I think we need to talk about this. My procedural proposal is, to talk about our relationship with refugees, to people who are fleeing: whether our definition is religious, or by skin color, or where we are so generous to one another and so rejecting others. And especially when we talk about children — we know how six young school-bound children were rejected in Kranj, what the hell was going on. We really need to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, who will question Minister of Health Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Minister! One of our basic health insurance rights is the choice of a personal dentist. We can choose it in health homes and in privates with concessions. In theory everything is nice and well, but, as in our health care, it is already stuck to the availability of these services. In early September 2020, in Slovenia, a thousand and 51 dentists were awarded 217 concessions for the treatment of adults, young people and students. So about one and a half million people have a selected personal dentist with a concession, which means that about a quarter of Slovenians are without a personal dentist with a concession. Some of them have sought a self - paying solution, while some have no chosen dentist at all, and probably no money to afford it. Recently, an orthodontist in Maribor, where a thousand 200 children were identified, returned the concession. What happens to her patients in a month when this concession contract expires is not known, and we are in March. As soon as the problem was perceived in Maribor, I addressed a written question to you. This problem also occurs elsewhere after Slovenia.But you have not yet been able to answer. I hope you didn't want to exploit the imminent termination of the ministry. In Maribor, about 300 children who already have an apparatus and 900 children who are in the waiting line will obviously be left without treatment. They won't even be able to afford it on their own. A company that has returned the concession because it will switch to a technology that does not belong to a basket of rights covered by the insurance process does not have a legal basis for providing emergency assistance in the event of complications or management of treatment for existing patients at a time when another solution is sought for them. The medical home of Adolf Drolc Maribor said that the scope of this work simply cannot be taken over. Your Ministry of Health and Health Insurance have been informed of the situation since last autumn, and they are also aware that the Maribor Health Home of Patients will not take over. That's why I'm interested in: Why has the Ministry not issued an invitation to tender in the last six months? Where can parents of waiting patients turn for further treatment? Is it true that patients who have been waiting for a long time will be moved to the beginning of another waiting line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Members, the distinguished, distinguished Mr Mag. Branislav Rajić, thank you for this important question! It is right to respond to certain facts that are, of course, verifiable and also give certain answers. Indeed, on 6 October 2021, we were informed by the Municipality of Maribor that the concession of VBO, d.o.o., had been cancelled, was claimed to be a concessionaire in the area of jaw and dental orthopaedics, which the Municipality of Maribor granted to the concessionaire by decision of 31 March 2014. In 2014, something else happened, and until then concessions in the area of jaw and dental orthopaedicity were considered to fall under the primary level of healthcare. However, in 2014 at the same time, the Expanded Expert School on Dentistry concluded that dental and jaw orthopaedics were a specialist dental activity, which means that the patient is being sent to an orthodontist by a personal dentist. This means that orthodontism, of course, belongs to the secondary level of healthcare and, as you said, in the following specialisation, I apologize, concessions, if necessary, are awarded by the Ministry of Health. When we talk about the concessionaire’s contractual relationship with the Municipality of Maribor, of course the six-month contract notice is valid, while the concessionaire also has a contract with the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia until 31 March of this year. When is the concession granted? The concession may be granted on the basis of Article 42 of the Health Activity Act if the concessionaire determines, i.e. the Municipality of Maribor, that the public health institution cannot ensure the exercise of health activities to the extent specified by the public health service network or if the public health service cannot provide the necessary accessibility to health services. However, this was in 2014. Like I said, then there was a change and now the Ministry of Health is calling it off. On this basis, the Ministry of Health asked the public health institution covering this region, says Dr. Adolf Drolca Maribor Health Home, whether it is possible for the Maribor Health Home to take over this program of orthodontics in November. In December we received a reply that the Maribor Health House could take over the aforementioned concession programme, so there were no procedures for any new award of the concession because it was actually a withdrawal of the concession to the current concessionaire and the transfer of the concession programme to the implementation of the Maribor Health House. Well, after February 10th, we received a new notice from Maribor Health House, which is just before the contract was signed, that due to the lack of staff of this programme it cannot take over. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has immediately launched activities in accordance with Article 44, paragraph 2, of the Health Act in order to determine the temporary consignee of the concession. And in the Maribor area, they can be three concessionaires and, in exceptional cases, one of the privates. At the time of that or this transitional period or temporary takeover, it may be up to a maximum of one year, that is, until 31 March 2022, when the Ministry will, of course, carry out an appropriate public tender for the award of the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you, too. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm just afraid there's not enough time left for this process to take place, given that we're already in the middle of March. You are talking about March 31st two weeks, the government on the way out; so I find it hard to believe that it will work, but it will somehow be your responsibility. And it's not just Maribor, it's a problem all over Slovenia. Why? Because children with a regular guide at orthodontist health homes wait almost five years. With quick directions, so if they have a severe malfunction, they wait almost three years for a first checkup. But they wait very quickly with the label for three months, but these are so difficult cases that these kids don't hope to open their mouths, say, so it's a bad situation. And that's just for review. Then they wait six years for regular treatment, one year if treatment is defined as fast, and three months for very fast treatment. Therefore, waiting waiters are good for the first regular review and start of regular treatment range from 2027 to 2031, which is almost ten years. Can you imagine a child growing up with these teeth waiting to help for ten years? I'm asking you this as your father's father, not just as a minister. I can't imagine that you will allow yourself to be remembered by many Slovenian families at the responsibility of not helping their children and adolescents to have the teeth irregularly while growing up. Well, you could. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How will you solve this problem within two weeks, since the Health Insurance Office pays for treatment only if the child has a first orthodontist examination by the age of 16? Will only those under the age of 9 be entitled to do so on a regular basis with a travel document? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Member, thank you very much for complementing the question. Of course, the problem in the field of dentistry and especially orthodontism has been hot and current for many years, and for this very reason it is one of the important goals that we have set ourselves in the past year, including by trying and addressing the waiting species that you mentioned. Therefore, in Annex 1 to the general agreement for 2021, the orthodontist program, as a whole in Slovenia, was paid or determined to be paid after realization. So it's not a limit on how many programs someone makes, just like it did in the past, but the whole orthodontist program will also be paid. This is new, and we believe, at least in the field of X-rays, you all know the CTs and magnetic resonance investigations, it actually eliminated waiting species in this area. As far as time goes. There's really not much time. I told you that we received a corrected response from the Maribor Health House relatively late, after February 10th, so of course we are negotiating with the four operators mentioned, who could take over this temporary acquisition of the concession and, of course, this temporary acquisition of the concession for one year. Here we strive to ensure that, within these deadlines that we have – as you have rightly stated – there is not much time, of course, for everyone in this transitional year, when we have to make an invitation to tender for the award of the concession, of course, adequate supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is to hold a debate on this subject. In fact, it's one evolutionary category. We do not want the nation to be a warthog and therefore the problem of orthodontism in children and also in adults should be resolved in a timely manner. The Minister – obviously from the answer I received – is trying to get a solution, but time is chasing us and I think that the situation that is alarming in Maribor is the same in a number of other places. That is why we really need to approach the debate on this, and we must address this issue, and from this position of Member and Minister, we have probably concluded this dialogue, but I think it is right that we should do it at the level of the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for the Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin and Minister of Health, Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I'll ask Minister Tonin first. As an opposition Member, you have strongly advocated the establishment of a helicopter emergency medical unit, you have given a number of oral questions and on 22 January 2020 you have convened a meeting of both committees, namely, health care and defence, where I can see through the magnetogram, you have unanimously adopted binding decisions. Now, as the Minister of Defence, in which this issue belongs, you have done nothing and the lives of the people who need urgent medical attention are still at risk. On this subject, you've even triggered the interpellations of the defence ministers, and now that you're sitting in their chair, you're not working in this direction. In the referendum against the purchase of weapons for NATO worth 780 million, you deceived the population to help save people, but the truth is far from that. You also have written down in the coalition contract the establishment of a rescue helicopter unit. I want to know: Why don't you respect your own coalition commitments? What will happen to the 23 million cohesion funds reserved for this purpose? Don't you find it distasteful that you think it's medical to transport patients and injured people to use old, inappropriate helicopters and buy new helicopters for the military and its needs? Do you know that after the renewal of 30-year-old military helicopters, for which we will pay EUR 32 million of taxpayer money, they will still not comply with the rules of the HNMP regulation and is this a waste of money? And I'm asking the Minister of Health: Why is it not implemented under the current rules on helicopter emergency medical care in the Republic of Slovenia? Are you aware that the so - called golden hour is a time when life can be saved after injury, and that it is therefore of paramount importance that rescue workers be at the scene of the accident as soon as possible? I believe you're a doctor. How can you, as Minister of Health responsible for health, rescue and human life, leave to the Minister of Defence Tonin this very important area? Do you even know that these military pilots refused to transport the pregnant woman with covid, even though they were given covid supplements, and this pregnant woman died a few days after that? Do you know that the EU regulations are imposing, how should this problem be addressed and how the regulations are enforceable? Are you aware that the implementation of this activity by 30-year-old military helicopters is reckless and even reckless? In fact, we'd spend enough money to buy four dedicated new helicopters that fit the rules. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Which one's first? Minister Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you for Mrs Violeti Tomić's question. Dear Members, all present! Urgent helicopter medical care is an important part of rescue, as you have said, because this often, especially in the Slovenian geographic past, shortens the response time in both rescue and transport to the appropriate hospital. The shortening of time, of course, significantly improves the survival prospects of both the seriously ill and the injured. In the Republic of Slovenia we currently have two bases for helicopter emergency medical care both in Maribor and in Brno. In 2021, 446 interventions were carried out, of which 118 interventions were carried out by helicopter emergency medical services in Brnik, including in the mountains and in the unfavourable terrain. In addition to this, last year the helicopter carried out 57 emergency secondary transports and 22 transports of critically ill children. This means transport between the hospital and the Ljubljana Clinical Centre. In accordance with the undertaking to update the helicopter emergency medical system, the tasks adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by Decision of 24 June 2021 are currently being carried out. The main emphasis of this project is, among other things, the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces helicopter fleet, of which four helicopters will be adequately equipped and primarily intended to carry out tasks in the context of helicopter emergency medical assistance; an update of the activation plan will help to speed up the activation of the helicopter emergency medical unit and the establishment of a third base, which will ensure better access to all parts of Slovenia for helicopter emergency medical assistance. So far, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Minister Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u253	Helicopter emergency medical care is a matter of the medical system and emergency medical care, not the Ministry of Defence and not the Minister of Defence. If health care decides otherwise, the Ministry of Defence will respect that. We are only, if I may say so, subcontractors of this activity. But there will be no obstacles, if there is a decision to purchase dedicated helicopters, that health care will form its own unit, get its pilots, its maintenance, its aviation centers, we have no problem with that. However, I believe that the government behaves rationally in this regard and that it was aware that buying a helicopter is the easiest thing, so then you need pilots, techniques, that is, personnel that are very difficult to obtain in Slovenia – even in the Slovenian Army. If anyone is a pilot, he's welcome in the ranks of the Slovenian Army. According to some studies, Slovenia would need three bases. He's currently operating an army from two bases. For the third, we still have too little personnel, I'm talking about technicians, airplanes, and I'm talking about pilots, so once again: doors are open. The helicopter costs about 15 million euros from up here. Let me only compare that in 2011 the Slovenian Armed Forces carried out 32 interventions for HNMP and last year, in 2020, already more than 400. In short, things have grown more than tenfold. That is why we are targeting not four, but eight Bell 412 helicopters, which are extremely sustainable, rational and also effective. But what the Minister of Health said, I support him in these matters. Three conclusions were adopted; the first to update this fleet. We're updating it, and it's going to cost us 30 million euros to get eight modern helicopters and four equipment for a medevac. So the activation plan doesn't determine where the helicopter goes, but that's what the dispatcher does. And that's what's important to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u255	Mr. Tonin, the dispatcher decides which helicopter goes where, doesn't he? One military helicopter has emergency rescue helicopters, two - mountain rescue services, three - medical secondary transports, four - incubator transports, and five - incubators. And the dispatcher decides where he thinks he's going! And so it happens that the pregnant woman dies because this helicopter does not accept her; that in the mountains a man waits for four hours with an open fracture of the femur and then decides to walk into the valley. Then two weeks ago, a heart attack in Nova Gorica, they refused transportation because the dispatcher decided to do so, and they went down the road with an ambulance to make it faster. They ran into a car accident in Brezovica and so on. Do you accept responsibility for all these human lives? That's what I'm asking Mr. Poklukar because he's the Minister of Health! And second of all, what I'm interested in is Mr. Tonin: Where does he buy planes and helicopters? Excuse me, 8 million would be a rescue helicopter, four of us would come to 32 million, as much as you'd spend rebuilding the old line and the old iron that you'd have to wait for the dispatcher to decide where he'd go. You say one helicopter costs 15 million. I wonder where you're buying this. Probably like the planes we're paying for. What are the commissions in the game and what is the value of human life in Slovenia? It was at the meeting that your Members stressed that in the countryside, the patient has the same rights to receive rapid medical care as in the cities, but now that you have forgotten about these chairs, you have forgotten about the countryside, you have forgotten about our people who need urgent medical care. And now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u257	Look, there have been so many lies here that it's hard to talk like that, and also the MP has shown a lot of ignorance, but let's go in a row. Dispatch decides where he'll send the helicopter and where he won't. Member of the Commission, see, in Brno, for example, two helicopters are on duty: one for mountain rescue, the other for helicopter emergency medical care only, and the third helicopter is in Churches if it is activated due to natural disasters and fire extinguishing. Thus, pilots do not jump from helicopter to helicopter or perform various tasks in that day, but helicopters are precisely for specific tasks in one day. For example, you will be able to imagine that the army will also perform in very busy days after 13 interventions a day. I ask you when you say you have a problem with private people, which private person will do 13 interventions a day in Slovenia. But you know, helicopters aren't available for a hundred. The military has eight of them at their disposal. You're talking about four private ones, I guarantee you that these four private ones would definitely have less availability because they need to be maintained, there are procedures when they can fly and when they can't. So believe me, these eight helicopters provide maximum availability as they can. Regarding prices, but you know, Mrs Member, the thing is, depending on what you buy; if you buy a single-engine helicopter, which is less capable and also much more dangerous to rescue. The profession will be able to tell you that for Slovenian mountains that are over 2,000 500 meters high, where the rescue is taking place, you need helicopters with two engines. These helicopters are, of course, more expensive and go beyond €15 million. In short, here is a whole series of things that, Madam Members, need to be taken into account when you talk about these things. The fact is, however, that the Ministry of Health and the whole country and the whole government behaves as rationally as possible in these matters. But if you're judging that this has to be arranged differently, then tell me where the attempt to do it a couple of times, and then this thing went wrong, so it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Minister, Poklukar, perhaps another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Vice President. As far as the dispatch service is concerned, of course, I can confirm that there are qualified persons sitting there who, on the basis of the conditions on the ground, of course, decide who and when to intervene. The same applies to ambulances and doctors' vehicles, so this system is active in us and I think it works well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u261	When it comes to human life, we need to talk seriously. The dispatcher service may be a professional, respected minister, but at the end of the fifth, one helicopter cannot be at the same time. Yes, we have private issues, Mr. Tonin. Yes, in Levica, usually; and you, with insurance companies, where insurance companies collect premiums and the military is paid from the budget, as well as their salaries, those who do so are there about 15 000 euros net. You're reading my ignorance. Please, on the magnetogram I could read that you have repeated several times on 22 January 2020, “I’m asking lakaly where the problem is”. You've asked the layman before, now allow me to lay you down and ask you: Did you find out now that you're a minister, what's the problem? You have the highest budget in the country. You're still saying that the rescue helicopter unit is a national priority and you haven't solved this priority right now. The Head of the New Slovenia Group, to which you belong, stressed at this meeting that this is an EU Regulation 965/2012 and that the regulations are enforceable, which means that it is not necessary to implement our legislation, but are in force directly. First of all, Members of the right hand, who now have scissors and canvas in your hands – and I don't know why you can't solve this, you have been very keen critics of non-action in this area. At that time, your colleague, Jean Mahnic, pointed out to the Interdepartmental Working Group, the then government and the then Minister that they were not taking their work seriously. How serious are you now, who are in their place, taking your job, taking people's lives? And you're just saying that everything counts, and I'm going to give you a list of cases that, due to the late treatment, have become tragic victims. I'm curious because I read this tape exactly: Do you still believe that the inhabitants and inhabitants of the remote countryside have the same right to quick and quality health care as in large cities, and why do you do nothing about it? And listen, 32 million euros is tossing money aside to rebuild old existing military helicopters. For this money, you get four dedicated rescue helicopters. And everyone would be happy and happy, especially health care would help, because they would quickly provide for patients. I think that Slovenia deserves what our northern neighbours and our eastern and western neighbours have. And here's what I'm going to say, two million we saw in the TV show Inspector with Maja Judge, that the annual cost of the base in Austria is the circus of two million euros. That's how much we spent on swabs a day. A day like the annual cost of the base! So please [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! The airport in Maribor has practically existed internationally since 1976 and reached its peak in the 1990s when it reached 85,000 passengers. Since the fall of Yugoslavia, this airport has somehow lived and is due to one objective situation – so there are three major economic centres and airports in the neighbourhood: Gradec, Ljubljana and Zagreb – and animals. In the meantime, owners, mainly speculators, who had no serious intention, exchanged. Nor has the State concluded an appropriate contract in order to adequately protect its property, with strange cancellation deadlines, without guarantees and obligations. It even happened that one of the previous State secretaries made promises about the adoption of a State spatial plan which is not within his jurisdiction – so I am talking about Mr Lebn. And, of course, the airport was in danger of being shut down. The case was successfully resolved before the closure of your predecessor mag. Alenka Bratusek. At that time, however, other stories also took place. A covid has arrived, and now this war has also taken place in Ukraine. The fate of the airport is, of course, as uncertain as any other, even at Ljubljana airport are today three, four years a day. That is why we were so much more pleased with your Twitter in June last year, where you published the news, “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia today took note of the idea of the development of the area of Edward Rusjan Airport in Maribor – Smart Hub and adopted conclusions for its implementation”. And it says, “Because of the excellent traffic and geographical position, the area represents a natural location for a multimodal logistics centre. The idea is the basis for further planning and putting ideas into space. By 2025 Smart Hub Maribor will be on 50 hectares of surfaces and in 2030 at 630. This will make Smart Hub Maribor an important logistics centre for North Adriatic ports. Logistics is an opportunity for Maribor and its surroundings." You've added graphics, which you also wanted to essentially substantiate your claims. That's why I want to know: What procedures have you performed since then? The year 2025 will be near, from now to 2025 is about 2.5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u265	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, we claim that the Smart Hub Maribor project can be implemented by the end of 2025. The government has adopted a decision that decided that the wider LERM area, i.e. the Edward Rusjan Maribor Airport, should be set up as a logistics centre based on a model we also know abroad called Smart Hubs, as well as a service and logistics service area, and in particular these services based on a high level of digitisation and the use of environmentally friendly and sustainable solutions. So-called Bauhaus, right? What needs to be stressed is that the Maribor airport area really has an extraordinary geostrategic position. In addition to the railway, there is a highway and the capitals of neighbouring countries are close, right. So this geostrategic position needs to be exploited. This is indeed an extraordinary natural location for the development of the logistics centre and there are also outstanding potentials. An important message is that we started with what happened in the past — I think three years ago — interrupted by putting into the space of the runway extension. You know, for a serious logistics center, we need a longer take-off and landing route. Today, this does not offer these conditions so that we can have a serious logistics center. We have problems with one owner there – you mentioned that already. It is a Chinese owner – ahead of the airport in the area of parking places and so on, but we have taken these procedures forward to definitely get rid of them in the next six months. It is necessary for Smart Hub Maribor, when the land is consolidated, and we do so, and also arrange a landing site to start not least by finding potential buyers to develop this logistics facility. The country as such is not a logistics man, certainly not. This moment, of course, is owned by Maribor Airport, but we are talking about objects that are around and around, which are part of Smart Hub. This is a lot of state buildings. Real estate, land, are to a large extent a state, so we do not expect major problems here. Definitely: yes, Smart Hub Maribor can't develop on its own. Finally, it is a coordinated development with the airport as well as other activities in the area. At this point, it is in the process of consolidating the land.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u267	Of course, a few questions arise from your answer. So, in Graz there is an airport 3 kilometers long, in Ljubljana 3 kilometers, in Zagreb 3 kilometers, and there is no need, there is no signal from these airports that have such a path that even such planes land there. We're talking, say, about 40 kilometers away from Gradac. So I asked you what procedures, because we need to be aware that air traffic is in decline and if we want to develop air transport in Maribor, then we can only develop one that none of these airports want. So once again, I'm asking, in fact, on the news, on the tweet that you published, you published this picture, and you're also talking about smart vehicles, carbon-free vehicles. In this picture we see internal combustion vehicles, workers unloading cargo instead of robots, sitting on pallets, in the background we see even one column, we see some greenery, we see some helicopters. I believe that this is all a valuable pear experiment and that the ministry does not have a serious vision of what to do with this airport, especially in these current circumstances, is considering extending the track without any need to extend the track at all. I asked you what you're doing to develop Smart Hab and what conclusions and procedures you've carried out, but you're now saying you're working on the extension of the track without making it clear who would be landing at this airport. So, we know that air traffic is on the decline, and I'm asking you: What other activities can you develop at this airport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u269	Valuable pear. That's your question, in fact. We don't do cheap pear, but we do professional work and everything else we need to do. The evidence of cheap pyar is completely irrelevant because we set up a project and did all the things that others are not in front of us. I'm talking about if we're talking about the Smart Hab logistics center being there, then the port path is 2,000,500 meters too short. That's a fact. That's what all people who are serious about logistics are saying, and that's a fact. What are we doing now? You only hear half the answer. It is not only the runway, but the consolidation of the land and the procedure is also conducted with one owner who became the owner, I think in 2018, 2017, and there is the owner before the airport in the parking lot so on. And he's got other facilities. So this infrastructure needs to be consolidated and all the other land around and around. This is what we do — I don't know how else to answer. That's what we're doing now. The land needs to be put in one piece so that we can finally develop these plans and drawings that you have shown and are very good, not valuable, pear. That the readings are very cheap.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to the procedural proposal that the National Assembly hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u271	My procedural proposal is to discuss this subject at one of the next meetings, because it is a very important topic for Maribor. From Maribor to Austria, 10,000 people are going to work and it is right to develop activities in this area that will allow these people who migrate to Austria daily to work at home without unnecessary and unnecessary costs. It is right that the airport, which will obviously no longer be the primary airport, but will have other functions, will discuss which services, which activities will develop at this airport, and will in fact finally live the space. Because what is being done now and what the minister has somehow hinted or what will be done is essentially dealing with himself so that nothing will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Environment and Space mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u273	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister! Look, I'm asking about the planning of the shooting of a brown bear in 2022, and it's also right for someone in the National Assembly to stand for the rights of these, in nicknames called, beasts. But personally, no animal would name the beast, because according to experience, in fact, some kind of guardian angel is essential. In this case, when we talk about the shooting of a brown bear, there is also a problem in the approach itself and also in the number that appears in the media or then officially on the official side. See, on the last day of February 2022 the Ministry of Environment and Space issued a permit to shoot 222 brown bears, and in fact without the possibility of a complaint to the Administrative Court. Since the Society for the Liberation of Animals, and this is also their right, has in fact challenged the authorisation of the Environmental Agency for the shooting of 220 bears by 30 September this year, and also the Administrative Court has in fact stated in its judgment that the Court of Justice is the same as in a comparable judgment of 21. 9. 2020 concluded that an irreparable damage would have been caused by the shooting, as the severely protected bear would not have been compensated, with the killing of each individual animal amounting to priceless and irreparable damage. And here I completely agree. However, it is also necessary to understand farmers, including those who are affected by bears, but basically the problem is that bears are treated very badly or that they are also carried out in a very vehement and costly way. I am afraid that with these shootings of bears, the Ministry of the Environment and Space has succumbed to these pressures, which were the months-long pressures of the Hunting Union of Slovenia. I'm afraid the Hunting Union of Slovenia actually wanted to get a bear shot like this, because, as we have already said, we also know that there is this hunting tourism, and when we are talking about, again in quotations, about beasts, about bears that are not beasts for my concepts, there is capital back here, as well as opportunities for profit and, of course, this hunting tourism. Now I have a question for the Minister for Environment and Space: Why did you issue this permit now?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u275	Dear Member, thank you for asking. Fortunately, though, the story is not as simple and unique as you mentioned it. First time. The brown bear is protected in Slovenia and Europe and intervention in this population is only possible when several conditions are met; there is no other possibility that we will not harm the bear population by interfering and that it is a selective and limited seizure under strictly controlled conditions. As a result, the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering of the University of Ljubljana developed an expert opinion, an expert base for the management of the brown bear and, of course, on the proposal of the Institute of Forests or an expert proposal for the issuance of the decision, which was issued on 28 February this year, the expert proposal for the issuance of this decision was prepared by both the Institute for Forests and the Institute for the Protection of Nature. You actually wanted to mark this as some kind of capital, some kind of hunting and some interest in preying on a bear, but the truth is different. The brown bear population is stable and is actually strengthening every year in Slovenia and there are a number of conflict situations. Recently we were able to monitor a bear attack on one of the hunters and there are even more and much of such events and therefore it is necessary to selectively exclude part of the population. That is why, as I said, the Ministry of the Environment issued a decision to shoot a bear on the basis of these expert opinions and expertise from the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology. The shooting is allowed until 30 September this year, in 112 hunting grounds, where it is actually the largest. It is not true, as you stated, that this decision cannot be contested by an action before the Administrative Court, that is possible. It is likely that the action will be filed, the deadline has not yet expired, because the time limit for filing an action before the Administrative Court is 30 days from its service, so that the deadline is still running. I believe that in addressing the populations of protected habitat species, we need to follow on the one hand the condition of this particular species or whether its situation is favourable and, on the other hand, the safety of people and property. And in this weighting based on expert opinions there has been this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u277	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. You've actually mentioned a little bit, in fact, there's actually some kind of news about the permit to shoot these bears now in this shooting or in this act. In fact, these hunting grounds or shooting permits are located in 11 pools. I could count them but no strings attached. But see, when one looks at these tables where the numbers are given, it's said how many bears are supposed to be shot in a certain pool, it stabs at first sight the fact that it goes essentially for young bears. So, it's about 100 kilos out there. And actually in this category, they're supposed to be shot by 154 of those 222. And here I see a very controversial matter, or please, if you can explain to me why so many of these young bears; it is said from a younger population. And before that, you mentioned the Biotechnical Faculty, or the Department of Biology, if I understand correctly. Mr. Korbinšek said when asked why this number of 222 bears had occurred, he said back: “I could not tell you how this happened, because I also think that no one in the Department of Biology participated in the preparation of this decision.” They were involved in the previous one, but the new one wasn't. I'm asking you for an explanation: Why did this happen? Why such a statement from Mr. Carinthia?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u279	So it's a completely professional question and absolutely nothing political. The Minister of the Environment and Space did not participate in writing this decision, much less in decisions as well as in which age group the brown bear will be fired and in which hunting grounds. This is a purely professional question based on an expert opinion. The expertise of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology was the basis for an expert proposal prepared by experts from the Institute for Forests and the Institute for Nature Protection. They have decided, it is said professionally, how much, where and in which age group and in which administrative body, that is to say, administrative workers at the Ministry have followed and prepared this decision in the best faith that the decision is prepared professionally and legally correct. As Minister of Environment and Space, I'm not in this decision and I don't want to and I can't let go. Therefore, I believe that this decision will, in fact, withstand the fact that it will also be available for various discussions, but we cannot avoid the fact that the brown bear population has been continuously in a favourable condition over the past period, that it is a protected species and that in such cases it is possible, under the conditions I have told them, to selectively exclude part of the population from the natural environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to the procedural proposal that the National Assembly at its next meeting hold a discussion on the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u281	Your Honor, once again, thank you very much for your word. As mentioned earlier, with regard to these LPNs or these pools in which these shells are distributed, once again I say, it will be in the eyes of this younger or young population of bears, which I think are very noble beings. It is right that there is also a public debate on this subject in the National Assembly, where I think it would be necessary to point out in general the actual status, as well as the over-exploitation or withdrawal from the nature of the beast again in the beast's claims, because in my opinion animals are not beasts. I would also like to draw attention to a broader debate on this subject, but I would also like to point out that it would also be wise to think about the future of the Ministry of Environment and Space in order to have a share or perhaps even a part of the Ministry, or even its own ministry, which would actually deal only with animals and also with rights; what the Ministry of Agriculture is actually doing now. As I say, once again, I propose that a broader debate be held, but also because I know that this is now my oral question last in this mandate, I will only tell people that, if only they can and it is right to do so, that they will best take care of the animals they own or have, as well as those who are wild? in the wild again because they do not really want anything bad to do with us. Many times, though, it is man who causes many or many bad things to animals. Good night or good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-14-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2022, in the framework of the votes. I thank the ministers for their answers. I hereby terminate the first item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 16 March 2022. I am also adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended on 14 March 2022 at 18.12.)
