ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič from 9 a.m. to 14 p.m., Jani Prednik, Dr. Franc Runček by 12 p.m., Alexander Reberšek by 13 p.m., Daniel Krivec, Alenka Jeraj, Franc Jurša, Dr. Franc Runch from 12 o'clock on, just Bevk from 9 a.m. to 16 p.m., Iva Dimic, mag. Dejan Židan until 3 p.m., Nik Prebil from 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, Aljaž Kovacič from 9 a.m. to 15 p.m. and Andreja Zabret from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give you a brief overview of the essential solutions to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Gambling. The main objective of the novel proposal and of upgrading the legal framework and monitoring of gambling is to increase consumer protection and to influence the fight against fraud and money laundering. The proposal also provides more money for sports, athletes and humanitarian organisations. The aim is to establish a legal framework that will make it possible in a more transparent manner to grant concessions for the permanent adaptation of classical gambling and for the adaptation of specific gambling, on the basis of a call for proposals. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will award concessions on the basis of the criteria already laid down in the law in force after the execution of the invitation to tender, which also indicates that the law does not in itself mean that three new concessions will be granted. It is new that classic gambling, which can only be organized by two organisers at present, can be organised by a maximum of five organisers. Increased competition is expected to make a positive contribution both in terms of public benefits and in terms of consumer protection. The liberalisation of the market can provide a higher level of quality of the offer and redirect players from illegal tenderers to those with concessions under the control of the State. In addition, the novel contains quite a few security guards that will allow the environment to be more controlled for gambling. Let me mention some of them: new reasons for the withdrawal of the concession if the concessionaire does not remedy the infringements identified in the supervision; higher level of basic capital of concessionaires; new rules on the advertising of bets; requirement for a seat for classical games in the Republic of Slovenia; new range of periods for the award or extension of concessions. Classical gambling also includes bets for which specific conditions for obtaining concessions are laid down in the proposal for the novels and set out more detailed conditions for adapting this type of classical gambling. A non-reimbursable entry fee of EUR 500 000 is set at 80: 20 divided by the Sport Foundation and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Should the Government increase the number of bet concessions on the basis of the invitation to tender, any new bet concession for the FSO, which finances athletes, would amount to additional resources of EUR 400,000 and for the FIHO, which finances disability and humanitarian organisations, an additional EUR 100,000. The bill thus allows for more resources for disabled persons, socially weaker persons and athletes. In the context of the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the amended bill, which includes amendments with which the Government has also agreed, has been approved. The amended proposal for a law means taking into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in order to ensure internal compliance with the provisions of the law. Furthermore, comments on tips were taken into account and it was proposed to increase the statutory minimum concession fee for the adjustment of classical gambling from at least 5 per cent to at least 25 per cent. A legal basis has also been added to provide possible missing funds for FIHO and the FSO from the budget. The bill provides more money for the operation of sport and for the functioning of humanitarian and disability organisations, and also provides greater security in the design of gambling, so I propose that you support the proposal. Finally, I would suggest that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you also hold a third hearing at this regular meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 40th meeting on 1 December last year and following this meeting on 20 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In the introduction, the Minister of Finance took on key solutions and objectives of the bill. In particular, he stressed that the funds for the implementation of the activities of the two Foundations financed by gambling benefits would be the Foundations for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in order to increase these funds. However, some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service were adopted in the form of an amendment. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented a written opinion which already introductoryly points out that the applicant should prepare a new proposal for the law and not just a novel, since the bill represents almost a third of the text of the law in force. In her view, some comments were taken into account in the proposed amendments, but they were less difficult to amend. Substantial changes would suggest further explanation and clarification. The representative of the Council of State presented their opinion that changes would have negative consequences in the wider area of social, disability and humanitarian protection. The changes may also have a negative impact on the amount of the revenue collected for concession fees financed by sports organisations. In view of the above, the Council supports the existing organisation of classical gambling and rejects the proposed changes. The National Council did not define itself to the amendments tabled, but at that time, according to a meeting of the Committee on Finance, they announced the imposition of a procrastination veto if the law was adopted in the proposed text. In the debate, some members of the Committee highlighted and also directly asked the Minister whether, in the background of the proposed law, some were partial, if not even personal interests, especially given the fact that all stakeholders addressed by this proposal were rejecting it. They drew attention to the transparency of the adoption of the proposed amendments and to the provisions of the existing strategy for the development of gambling, which implies only two organisers of classical gambling. The Minister of Finance explained that this is not a matter of personal or any other partial interest. The entry of a foreign organiser is not foreseen. The draft law defines the lower minimum rate of concessional duty as there was no prior restriction. Local communities' control or consent is still in place and will continue to be monitored for gambling. The bets are a new form of play that is included in the bill and more resources are also foreseen under this heading. Actors who are currently playing at foreign stakes are also expected to return to Slovenia. Some other discussers supported the bill. They expressed the view that it was a legal framework that would allow for greater security for players, a more transparent procedure for granting concessions and more revenue for the country and both foundations that receive money from concession fees. Gross revenue from gambling has been declining in recent years, as both providers have an outdated business model, a cost-effective business and an offer that is not interesting for players, so they move abroad. However, the resistance of both existing concessionaires to a change in the business environment is understandable because they do not want to lose the dominant dual position. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments annexed to the written report in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, in which amendments are incorporated, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amendment is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 26th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2022. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm going to set up an application for the list of discussers. Please sign up. The application shall be made. The first one has the word Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Now, from the preliminary points of view, especially from the point of view of Mr Polnar in his communication on the handling of this proposal on the working body, one thing was clear in particular. This law, no one supports this proposal; it is not supported by the unions of employees in gambling activities, it is not supported by the local community – the local community has been very keen here – it is not supported by the State Council; it is largely not supported by Members, and it is asked who supports this law at all or why we have it on the table, if it brings so much unconformity, or if there is a regime in which all stakeholders now agree that it is relatively well regulated, now brings some news. Initially, I will express some of the main concerns or positions that we have in the Left Group, since we will reach our amendment at the final stage, but like this. Gambling is one very specific economic sector. They are an economic sector, they bring, they create some profits, they bring something into the state budget, and they also have a very specific social impact, which we have already stressed several times at the committee hearing. A very specific social impact, because they bring behind them this great minus, which is the possibility of gambling addiction, which brings along family problems, brings along social problems, destroyed families, social action and so on. There is another specific feature in the field of gambling as an economic sector that is not seen elsewhere, and that is, gambling is a large or very important contributor to humanitarian organisations, disability, sports organisations. Through concession fees, they generate key funding for the work and existence of these organisations, which form an important basis for the functioning of humanitarian organisations, disability organisations, sports organisations; those organisations which in some way repay or compensate society for what gambling can carry away with its negative effects. From this point of view, especially with regard to the contribution of the gambling industry to disability organisations and humanitarian organisations, it is painful to conclude that these disability organisations identify or warn that, following the changes in the legislation that we have today on the table, they will receive lower incomes, and the proposal for a law, thus the organisations warn, it is also not clear how this manna will be replaced. The National Council of Disability Organisations, for example, says that virtually all European countries grant the right to organise classical gambling exclusively to one organiser, and we say here now that the European countries are very conservative in how many organisers there are on the market and the government is now expanding this range of organisers. As a result, the FIHO, the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations, or the National Council, say that "their projections of the effects of the proposed law promise" to beware of the "30 % decline in funds or concession funding for the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and thus the extent of funding for specific social programmes." Indeed, there are many issues in this law; from ownership to licences, for example, for casino workers, how to include the tip in the mass of concession fees and so on and so on. There are a lot of open questions, but this, dear colleagues and colleagues, how the work of such an important economic sector is translated, say, especially in Goriška, into a social state, which I think must be at the forefront of our reflection. My question to the Government, also at the committee hearing: What does this government have against the disabled? The aid and service allowance was questioned in the Long-Term Supply Act, the Income Act takes 800 million out of municipal budgets, which can otherwise be translated into some infrastructure projects, even at the level of the disabled and so on. And that remains, distinguished representatives of the government, my central criticism of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u8	Yes, thank you very much. Now I'm about to proceed to where Primož ended up. In fact, the sector affected by this law is not some ordinary economic activity, but it is an activity with potentially very harmful social effects. That's why we have two pictures. If you look at how Western countries – Italy, Western Europe, the United States – are treating it everywhere, you will find information that there is more or less organised into state monopolies or dupoles, as with us, and extremely limited, so that the negative social consequences are as low as possible. On the other hand, you do not have far from us countries that have allowed the liberalisation of gambling: Bosnia, Serbia, Croatia, where the negative effects are reflected in every step. Those bookies you meet in the Balkan cities are popular collections of youth, high school students and research, showing that in Bosnia every fourth high school student is already addicted to gambling. What this means for its future development, you can imagine. In Croatia they have also shown a strong correlation between those who are addicted to gambling and falling into crime, and therefore the question is, above all, for those who often perform with a slogan For children, what kind of world do you want to create here. What kind of world do you want to create for them? The lottery of Slovenia does not, as we heard in the MDT report, have an outdated business model that is not interesting to players due to laziness. The lottery of Slovenia has a system that is relatively uninteresting for players to limit the range of gambling. As we have heard several times in the debates, and we have also pointed out, the current concession, although not limited, is not set the lower limit, you have now wanted to put it at 5%, now at 10%. The current concession fee — pardon 5 per cent — remains, the current concession fee amounts to 43 per cent, although the lower limit is not set. Which means that the Lottery of Slovenia practically half the money it collects with luck, with bets and so on, retains and distributes it to various humanitarian, disabled, sports organisations, which is why this model is not interesting. Once you have established the market, the Lottery of Slovenia, if it wants to remain competitive and in step with the rest of the offer, will have to reduce this concession fee to a minimum, up to 10 per cent, because they will remain to catch up to it, use the model to keep the money as small as possible for themselves, so that the gambling will be as interesting as possible and attract as many players as possible. This is clear what will be the result of the market or what will result from the commercialisation of this activity. On the other hand, this law is full of contradictions; on the one hand, we are hearing that money should be for all the more than we have heard in the Ministry's presentation, and on the other hand, the same ministry has said that the funds that now go from gambling to FIHO and the FSO will be called the Foundation for Disabled and Humanitarian Activities and the Sports Foundation will be new from the budget, which means that the Ministry only accounts that will be less and tries to comfort these organisations that are rightly panicking, what will happen if the concession is reduced by 43%, which is now at the minimum levels established by law, you comfort them, "but then you will get the money from the budget," which is essentially perverse. On the one hand, you will commercialise socially harmful activities and, on the other hand, achieve that for those who now have some of the gambling and who create positive social effects, money will actually be less or even more; we will have to pay from the budget. This is a school example of the privatisation of profits in the hands of those who will make bets and the socialisation of losses, that is to say, in the hands of us, who will now be paying from the budget for the new things that have now been paid by market activity. That's what you're gonna do. So if I draw the line, I would remind you once again that you have an example of what you are doing in Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia. In recent weeks, articles have been written full of what social effects it produces there, but you can see how things are arranged in Italy, how they are regulated in the United States. In Del recently received a call from a Belgian gambling expert who said that 45 federal states of the United States have a monopoly on gambling, that is, as with us, one country has strictly banned them and only in a few countries are things commercialised. And secondly, when we talk about what social effects this produces, we now have a system that leaves no serious negative consequences because it is not a mass population involved and, on the other hand, provides additional resources for people with disabilities, for human beings, for sport. And you're gonna put that right on your head. In order to achieve the same financial effects for these organisations, four to eight times more will have to be played; it is said that several times more players will need to be involved, which will spend several times their revenue on gambling. On the other hand, we will obviously co-finance disability, humanitarian and sports organisations from the budget, because the ministry is also counting on money from this title for gambling to be lower. I don't see any reason to support this marriage. That's why, of course, we're going to reject him in Levica. We suggest you do the same for the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you, President. See, respected colleagues and colleagues, gambling in Slovenia is among us, among the people, which is sort of an integral part of the activities of humanitarian and sports organisations, which are financed in good part by concessions and also, of course, the works of taxes on these gains, which are then received by local communities. We Slovenians are kind of proud of that. It's kind of an integral part in our heads, that's how it is. And somehow this well-ordered area is now being broken with this novelty of law and of course you're opening up space, including foreign capital, and it's kind of outrageous. Once again, in this area, the government remains completely alone with this proposal, of course with the members of the coalition, those who support it. But I hope that there is also no more consensus here, especially in the last days, when Slovenian Karitas also made a very clear call and pointed out how harmful this is. And at least I hope that you are then Members of the NSI, who, of course, respect these values and this is part of you, that you have come to realize that this novel is a change in such a way that you give part of these funds or that you will benefit from foreign companies and even take these assets of our players out of Slovenia to oppose it. At least I hope so. This amendment has such a small correction in one word, which means a great deal. From this “potential impact” because you have now finally realized that these sources are not only as solid as you wanted to present them to us or you could not present them to us in any analysis at all, and of course they do not stand for the practical impact of financing of disability, humanitarian and sports organisations. That's the change. Now allow me to give it exactly as we have officially written down the explanation for this amendment. “We oppose the amendment's proposal itself, because we believe that this existing regulation of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia will make it worse. Even more so because of the amendment by which the coalition on the parent labour body amended the proposed Article 12. The current regime has provided adequate funding to disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, but if the bill is adopted, private owners will be given more. We will obviously cover the difference between citizens and citizens from the budget." Unheard of, unhygienic and even presumptuous! I don't know what else I can say to interfere in this way now in this national council, involve foreign owners, open the way for foreign companies to take the profits out of this area, and now the taxpayers would cover this difference. Who's going to confirm that today? Then I don't know what's wrong with you! You're literally making a fool out of taxpayers with this content of the law itself and also an amendment that you've then included in it. I'm telling you, that's even bold. The Committee on Finance adopted this amendment of the coalition, which changed the text of the fifth paragraph in a way that, in the event of a reduction in the financing of disability, humanitarian and sports organisations under concession fees, taking into account, of course, the average of funding from the past three years prior to the entry into force of the law, the difference is covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Again, boldly, what are you doing here! This solution, in order to cover the difference between the revenue obtained from concession fees, if not sufficient, is diametrically contrary to the objectives and principles of the law cited by the applicant. This bill states that the existing regime is being amended to create additional competition in the market for classical gambling, which will help improve supply and increase income from classical gambling – on page 5. Furthermore, it argues on page 8 that, in order to remove restrictions on the acquisition of concessions in the field of classical and specific gambling and thus to increase bids in the field of gambling, it will have a positive impact on the state budget and other public financial resources, which, of course, cannot be more specific at this time and has never been proven to be possible. On the contrary! The bill-maker, of course the Government, has, therefore, identified the positive effects on the state budget in the meantime since the introduction into the legislative process. He therefore concluded that the effects on the state budget could be negative. Yes, you can. Of course they are! It appears that the Government is working hard to deconstruct the existing and functioning arrangements for a sensitive area of gambling, and even in the way that the possible negative effects of the changes it proposes hang on the already so-called state budget, which currently exceeds 15 per cent of the revenue. Therefore, we do not want the budget to cover the deliberate or unintentional errors of the applicants in the calculation of what a change of regime will bring to society. Therefore, the amendment proposes to amend the third indent of paragraph 5. Once again, we do not support the whole novel because it is very harmful for the future area of gambling in Slovenia, which has been considered exemplary so far, for humanitarian and sports organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Today, unfortunately, we have another bill on the table to regulate, says the Government, areas where the government is completely needlessly inserting its nose. Areas to which it should be, where the Constitutional Court has ordered it to speak, of course, about the Law on Infectious Diseases – and of course this is avoided. And there are quite a number of such cases in this mandate or at the time of the rule of this government. On behalf of the unrelated Members, I have presented very widely our views already on the Committee itself. There I have touched in great detail all the problems we see in this law. Unfortunately, this time I am so limited in time that I cannot do this again, but I will only touch on the most important problems we see here. There are, of course, licenses and tips, and there are many other things in this law, but under the line I can say that the main problems are the financing of disabled humanitarian and sports organisations and, on the other hand, the social impact that this liberalisation of gambling will now bring. The beginning is, of course, always at the beginning and the beginning was already in 2018, when one of the Members of Parliament submitted a rather similar proposal to the law. Why am I talking about him? Because at the time, the government made it very clear in its position that in Slovenia we have an exemplary set of gambling adaptations, that in fact everything counts if I say so at home, and that there is no reason for us to change what works. This was stated in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 February 2018, as it is said, on a rather similar proposal for a law which was then put into action by one of the Members. So, more than obviously, the writers of the law aren't from the Ministry of Finance. More than obviously, the proposal we have on the table today was written by someone else; I will not dare to guess who, but the employees are certainly not the same. The Government then, in 2018, explained in detail on the four pages all the reasons why it is against. In addition to stating that the system is good, that it works and that other countries can follow our lead, she then stated in this position: “The government estimates that the assessment of the financial implications of the proposal for a state budget law and other public financial resources is not appropriate, since the applicant states that the revenue from the tax to the budget will increase and that the revenue from the tax would actually be reduced.” End of quote. What has now happened from 2018 to today that the Government has a diametric opposite position, which is already changing it? Since the first day of the opposition, we have pointed out this negative impact on the state budget, the government has argued otherwise, after miraculously again, at least in part, it has reconsidered and came to a meeting of the parent working body with an amendment in which it itself recognises these negative effects on the state budget. Of course, the coalition Members confirmed this amendment to Article 12. This is now an integral part of the law, and it must be said that it does not solve in any way the essential problems of this law, to which we have all previously warned in the opposition. But it is a clear sign that the government does one thing, but speaks another, because this is contrary to what the Government has been asserting in the meantime. And as has already been said, so, now it is foreseen – the government will of course admit that the money will not be as much as it claimed it will, and then imposes on the state budget to cover the difference. So all taxpayers will cover some of the profits of some private companies. That's what the government has done now. If we ask ourselves how this difference in concession fees for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations will be covered, then we need to get a little deeper into this record. And when we take a closer look at this record, of course, in this part we find that today there are certain ways in which a particular entity can obtain funds from the state budget. In fact, the state budget separates between indirect and direct budgetary users. Direct budget users are state authorities, municipal administrations, local communities and so on, and indirect budget users are public funds, public institutions, agencies and so on. None of these are disability, humanitarian and sports organisations, nor do they fall under any of them. Therefore, they may fall under those recipients of budgetary resources which are legal or natural persons, who, in order to obtain funds from the State budget, must have a contract with the State, obtain them on the basis of a decision, decision and so on. So, even to this obvious question, we didn't get any answers as to how the government intended to do it. This is, of course, problematic because it is impossible to allocate budgetary resources to these organisations by law, without coming under the Law on Gambling in contravention of the Law on Public Finance, which stipulates what I was just talking about. So the amendment, or text as adopted, is in fact contrary to another law, this is the Public Finance Act, and as such is not only illegal but also unconstitutional. As has already been said, the government assessed the financial implications of the new proposal as positive for the state budget and then subsequently came with an amendment which acknowledges that they will not be as positive as it claimed, but that we will even cover half of the citizens and citizens in the gap that it will miss. What this text really raises questions is how to finance or how to allocate funds to disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, which are currently going well, provides some stable funding. In fact, the current text establishes a completely new concept of financing, whereby some new organisations can participate in a public call for funds, in addition to those existing organisations that we already know today. Therefore, some new parallel structures could be formed to allocate funds and, of course, all, both existing and new ones, will seek to obtain budgetary resources to the best of their ability. And since there is no legal basis for distribution in this way, of course, there will be problems. There is a lot of confusion to be expected, even court proceedings and related problems in practice and delays in funding existing organisations – correct me if you think this is not the case. When we talk about the amount of fees and, as the Government has said, it is now being corrected; we all know that concession fees are being charged from the difference between payments and payments. If we are now placing new bidders on this market, then the only way in a two-million-dollar country is to reach additional players or additional assets that will be in circulation in gambling is, therefore, only by increasing profits and by increasing more aggressive advertising. At the same time, because the concessions in this difference mean, of course, lower nominal amounts for these organisations, which, of course, were particularly highlighted by the organisations themselves, and even after the adoption of this amendment to Members of Parliament, all of you received this at their e-mail addresses and reconfirmed that they would actually find that these funds would be less. Both FIHO and the Sports Foundation have sent us a detailed explanation of why. The period that this text now defines as a comparable period on the basis of which it will be assessed whether the actual organisations are sufficiently financed or not is three years before the law enters into force. We all know exactly what time we're living in. We all know well if we look at the reports that we are also considering in this house, that this year 2019, 2020 and 2021, due to the pandemic and the related problems in the economy as well, the lower purchasing power of the population, and also in terms of the extent of the resources received from disability and humanitarian concession benefits, sports organisations, are much more problematic, significantly worse than in previous years; and worse than the organisations have expected and are still expecting in the coming years. This means that it is impossible to provide adequate funding if we rely on data from these three years. So this step you're talking about, which kind of puts the lower limit of funding at 25 percent, is just a figure of speech. Since it is actually now, even though it is not written in this way, in fact, between 25 percent and 45 percent have contributed to these organizations for a number of years. Which also means that the figure is actually decreasing to 25 percent. Now that I have talked about another part, that is, some of the social effects that such liberalisation brings. Here I agree with some speakers who say that despite the gambling market with these two providers today some social effects may be small or say very small. We will do much worse if this bill is enforced. I am talking, of course, about the treatment of addicts, I am talking about the prosecution of crime, I am talking about the damage caused by these crimes, we are also talking about illegal providers, which this bill does not solve in any way, and I am talking, of course, about the costs of the country involved. For the last time, I have highlighted an expert's assessment that the costs of a country that is related to gambling dependence on an individual player after analysis of ï, unlike what the Government has brought, where there is no analysis of course – according to expert analyses, the annual cost of an individual player for the treatment of dependence between eight and a thousand 200 euros. Where's that covered? I am not just talking about health costs, I am also talking about the effects of such a disease, such dependence on all of us, family members and the wider community. These effects cannot even be assessed financially. In Croatia, we can take a closer look at the problems they have when they find that students and students are already addicted to gambling. I don't think they're the countries we should be following, but we like to follow the countries where they have this monopolized from the first to the last. Why? Because it has to be under strict control, because you have to control what's going on. This marriage will bring such bad things so that they can no longer be fixed in return.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, good morning, good morning! It's a novel that's harmful and unreasonable. I see that the Minister is not among us today, even though he is, as I understand it, one and the only promoter of such changes in the first reading of the Foreign Policy Committee. The new law on gambling is set before the fact that no one, but no one is stressing any of the stakeholders, I am talking about those who are providers, those who are actually beneficiaries, here we are talking about humanitarian, disability and sports organisations, and of course all the other stakeholders do not support such changes. There is no single entity to support these changes except the SDS Group of Members and their Minister. Incomprehensiblely, more than half a year ago, stakeholders received a proposal for a law or a bill that was actually diametrically opposite or completely different from what we later received in the procedure at the National Assembly. And from here there is actually a suspicion of who is the author, what is the purpose, and we rightly wonder whether this is a typical lobbyist law, where we are interfering in a relatively well-managed area in a way that we prefer one provider who has already been chosen or could be very close to the leaders in this country. It is unreasonable to do this when we have a regulated area, which, by the example of many European countries, is forced to be very strictly regulated, because it has, as it were, good qualities as well as bad. These ills are mainly manifested in the form of addiction, for which we also have a clinic in Nova Gorica, which in the last period does not record, I will say, the number of individuals with addiction to gambling. So we have a system that finances both the humanitarian and the disabled and the sports organisations with which these organisations are pleased. Indeed, this funding process is stable, well-designed and well-known, which provides humanitarian, disability and sports organisations with a vision of development and design. In fact, I will point out some organizations that are more recognizable than, say: Karitas, Red Cross, ILCO Association of Disabled Associations, or the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, or the Union of Co-existence, unions of employees in companies that deal with special gambling, such as representatives of Puerto Rican Casino Unions or the Hit Trade Unions, who actually put themselves in the position that the law is harmful. A set of these, a list of them is practically long and all, all, relevant actors, oppose this proposal or this amendment. In fact, our government is trying to bring about a change in the law through the National Assembly, by which, in addition to the general bad effects, it will strongly undermine the rights of workers. As has already been said, by abolishing licensing, they would abolish the obligation of professional skills in the field of gambling and allow for a replacement with non-professional staff. This is a cadre that is educated, it is a cadre with special skills, knowledge and sensitivity to users. We say this for larger casinos and, of course, salons – in a sector that is specific and needs knowledge, so that we can turn to a guest or demander in a way that we know how to approach the given circumstances in a way that does not unduly harm him. What is in sight is that it has become clear in recent weeks that this government is allowing the sale and dismemberment of the strategic Slovenian tourist infrastructure, as we see in Sava tourism. Therefore, there is real fear that, at the time of the dismemberment of the tourist casino work, the Government is preparing the ground for the sale of the Novogori tourist giant to a well-known bidder. It introduces severe competition on the basis of arbitral decisions. Here, it gives on the same big market a first chance or a warning on our part that the number of bidders will increase by two and a half times. So we're talking about a sector that has a limited number of bidders. In the vast majority, these are connected to or owned by the State. We are opening the market with liberalisation in a way that will be two and a half times the number of bidders. What are the risks? These providers will fight for a relatively closed market in a variety of ways and, of course, it is the power to conclude and point out that we will receive larger or stronger marketing receptions, i.e. more aggressive ones, and thus encourage new, younger players to actually submit themselves to this unknown world of addiction to gambling. And believe me, I come from around Nova Gorica and in the late 1990s, at the beginning of this century, I saw many friends, colleagues, acquaintances, as he actually fell into this spiral of addiction with gambling. What does that mean? This means family tragedies, this means a lack of finances and, of course, everything that is psychologically related not only to the individual, but to the family and the entire environment surrounding the individual. So it is absolutely evident, and many have proved this, that the cost of addiction is significantly higher than the cost of gambling itself. This is why many or most of the European courts have advocated monopolies and the regulation of this sector. Because, as it is said, it can have high contributions, but it has a lot of harmful effects on society as a whole. This is demonstrated primarily by the experience we have in our area. I am speaking in the field of South-East Europe, former members of the European country, including the Czech Republic, where through liberalisation they have allowed so-called Slovenians to be allowed to smoke more widely around every corner. This could happen in Portorož, Nova Gorica, Bled; where tourist destinations are more interesting. This would open the door primarily to young people, because they are most at risk so that their access to gambling is practically enabled in a way that no control can be exercised. Let me remind you that in the 1990s only the Slovenians were allowed to be casinos in the first half of the 1990s. [[…]] Later in the 1990s, this was limited to twice a month. Today, this liberalisation has already touched Slovenia to this extent, so that citizens and citizens can enter the casinos freely whenever they want. So accessibility is relatively simple. But by allowing the introduction of so-called stakes at every corner, what this amendment of the law would mean would virtually break these ratios. As has already been said, this amendment to the law does not solve problems of ownership and gambling operators. Of course we have classic suppliers, these are Sports lottery and bets that are owned by the majority state. They have a duopol in this area. Of course, this is the easiest way to control and, as we have already said, we have a leaked system supported by all relevant organizations, humanitarian, disability and sports, as has already been said. Without saying nice things: Of course, certain changes and minor adjustments would be welcome. But what you do, respected, of course, with the absence of the Minister of Finance, Shirtzlj, is actually a breakdown of the situation that has been established in 30 years in such an important area as gambling. It brings more risky products, so, as has already been said, foreigners will be able to enter our market, which, as has already been said, will increase aggressive tactics and more risky products, especially when we are talking about advertising tactics. So you're touching areas and these changes of yours are essentially melting away all the relevant players. Syndicate in the Hit talk about strike as soon as the novels are changed or the amendment of the Law will be made. What remains in our eyes is basically that we have a relatively regulated system so far. After many relevant institutions have warned that this funding system is being broken down, the Government, with an unreasonable intervention, specifically in Article 12, has provided funding from the budget in the event that there will be a fall in income for humanitarian, disabled, sports organisations. I mean, it's absurd absurd! We have a law, we have a sector that is profitable, we have a law that is relatively good at regulating this area. And we, in response to the potential loss of revenue, we provide funding or we provide assistance, I will say more humanly, to this organization, that any government will arbitrarily decide to allow them from the budget the same amount of resources as it is but it is absurd! [[…]] It just confirms and reinforces the position that you've prepared a lousy marriage. You always said that this law had been given many talks, that all stakeholders were involved, and that you were willing to talk about it. But your actions speak the opposite. With this Article you wanted to meet the needs of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, more known as FIHO. To the surprise of all of us, but not to the surprise of all of us, this FIHO has sent you a letter two days ago, where once again, despite your article 12, he is turning his back on you in a way that clearly expresses his opposition to this amendment, the novelty of the law. More than that, explain clearly why. And allow me just one quote: "Even the proposal to guarantee the coverage of the state budget deficits, which has been added recently, shows that the decline of funds will be a real consequence of the change of legislation, while at the same time not ensuring the necessary stability, as the other expected consequences of the changes in the law do not provide the necessary resources in full, introduces a possible, unacceptable time shift and other uncertainties." So, Your Honor, we've been telling you that you have a marriage that sucks. You said you were going to fix it with the amendments. You wanted – I apologize – to obtain FIHO with a bribe, of course with a sense of disability, and this FIHO tells you that what you are doing is stupid. That you do not solve the systemic problem of financing with this 12th article, but you sincerely want to use the budget to patch up the loopholes of the law, which you say is good, but at the same time you answer the possibility of holes that will arise. Well, that proves the law sucks. We now have a very regulated area. Everybody's happy. Of course, everyone calls for certain improvements, and so do we. Of course, the gambling law needs to be rewinded in a way that involves all actors and dialogue, with minor interventions, improving the system. And you — what are you doing? You liberalize the entire area, most likely with already selected providers who will come to the Slovenian market, disrupt the funding relationship between gambling providers, as a consequence between the country and humanitarian, disability and sports organisations, and you are doing – I apologize – French. The minister's not even here today, he wasn't on the board the last time we talked. It is good that I asked him a question on this subject on Monday, and we discussed it for fifteen minutes and found that despite many warnings from all relevant organisations, the Minister speaks the same thing. I'm sorry, with all due respect to the secretary of state, he's coming to the speaker today and says everything's fine. And if we have been telling you for three months not only us, who are the opposition, but all the relevant actors in this area, that the law sucks. And you continue to say the same thing as Minister Shircelj did on Monday; of course, with some embarrassment. You can see it's embarrassing, or I'd be the minister here today, but it's obvious that he's avoiding this debate. What's more, the State Council has announced the veto. Thank God! If the law does not fall by vote today, I am sure that it will fall after we have the opportunity to elect a majority of 46 votes in the re-vote if the veto is voted. And apparently the veto will be voted. And you know why he will be voted — not because the opposition says so, but because they ask humanitarian, disability and sports organizations to do everything they can to make this harmful law fall. They're gonna make him fall, not because of the opposition. Of course, our position is to remind you of – I apologize for the expression – the stupidity you are doing. But to prevent the consistent financing of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, so important to us in our society, that is, I apologize for the expression – unacceptable and very narrow. That is why there is a serious suspicion that you are doing what you are doing with a precise and clear goal. Whoever you're doing this for will show time. Because if we did not have a clear objective, then this disputed law would certainly have been withdrawn in the procedure itself. Your Honor! I really wish for the well-being of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations that, because of the system that is in place and is strong in its funding, you will not vote for this harmful law today. Practically all actors, relevant actors, point to the harmful consequences of this change. And so it is our responsibility, Sir, to warn you and ask if it is necessary not to give your vote for this madness that you are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Is there still interest in the debate? Yes, it is. Please sign up. Applications are under way. The first one has the word mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! I am convinced that the law that we have on the table today saves a better situation and saves the gambling system in Slovenia, which is not organised optimally today. Now we have listened to about an hour of beating by the opposition; by the opposition, mainly beating that the law was written in other offices. So I might say, today I may claim that all these speeches that you've been making in an hour have been written somewhere outside your offices. Look, we haven't touched one key problem today. The opposition explains that the system is optimally designed to have huge organisations, sports organisations, but look, dear German colleague, from 2008 to today gross gambling revenues have decreased by about 100 million euros. Thus, a fall of more than 23 per cent in income, and with this, I am sure that income for humanitarian organisations has also been reduced. And I am sure that these revenues have not been reduced because gambling in Slovenia, gambling, has been reduced, but because in the last ten or fifteen years the players of Slovenia have moved abroad. Because if you look at all the research, the market of gambling, sports betting in the world is one of the most growing industries and it grows by about 10 to 15 percent per year. No one's been exposing this problem today. This problem, which has been here, has been solving the decline in revenue of some 100 million euros since 2008, in some ways. I am sure that, with the implementation of this law, quite a few Slovenian players who are playing abroad today will return to Slovenia and, as a result, the income will increase for humanitarian organisations and sports organisations. And these are some facts, because playing Slovenian players abroad loses the country twice; loses revenue in the field of value added tax, loses revenue from gambling and loses on the basis of lower concession incomes, both for FIHA and for the Sports Foundation. These are some sort of facts. This law also changes a lot; it changes a more equitable system, and today Slovenia is probably the only country in Europe or in the European Union when a private organisation has a monopoly. Private society has a monopoly today, and I don't think that's good. Now we're talking about access to playrooms, to everything. Today, access to Slovenia is unlimited. Every gas station, every post office, every terminal. Dear German colleague, who here has control not to be played by minors on these terminals? Who here has control that minors don't play on these terminals? Take a look at the space of Slovenia, what it is and how many minors are playing today. Is it possible that the Sports Lottery or the Lottery Slovenia has made a study on the impact of casinos in Slovenia? It's not. You are talking about some Croatian, Bosnian studies, but unfortunately there are no studies in Slovenia. These two monopolies, one of these private monopolies, didn't do it. I am sure that this law will change this and that the system will improve and that the regulation will also improve. Tell me, is there a limit to playing games abroad online today? It's not. Everyone can play and avoid both the exit tax and the entry tax and everything. I am convinced that this law is better and that Slovenia needs changes in the field of gambling. Of course, the key issue is to increase funds for both humanitarian organisations and sports organisations. I'm sure this marriage will come to this. We also talked here about this government doing something its own way. We don't do things our way. Such a law was proposed in the National Assembly, for example, in 2018. And the respected fellow Servant, who today had a lot of comments on this proposed law, supported the law in 2018. Which, according to my behavior, I'd say is significantly worse than this. I don't think that's necessary. There's a lot of fear here about advertising by the opposition as well. Look, those of us who are a little bit closer to it or who are a little bit more involved or dedicated to it, I'd say that there's a trend in the world, that the advertising of bets is limited. I am sure that the advertising of bets, gambling will be on the path of tobacco law, sooner or later, and that this will also be a trend that will be in the European Union and that it is essential to do so. Today we all know, let's say that the Spanish La League prohibits advertising betting on football teams' jerseys, the English Premier League, I think it will introduce this in 2023. I repeat, I think this fear is too much for advertising. I am sure that advertising online games will follow the example of the tobacco industry, which means that it will somehow be banned or extremely limited to this matter. This area, as well as the adoption of the opposition's amendments to the Finance Committee, has also limited the minimum concession fees. I think that this was the key to improving the law and that most of your concerns about lower concession fees with this, I don't think that's the case. I'm going to personally support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Replica Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u18	I'll be very brief. Mr President, thank you for saying so. But you know, I understand you have to defend something that's almost undeniable. You're completely alone in this. You want to tell us that the market itself has been in the open market for some time because of, of course, other factors. And it certainly is not the solution for the industry itself to increase its productivity. Do you know why, Mr. Pogačnik, I'm sure you're wrong? Because if you were to quote anyone, not just you with the words “we are convinced” but actually proved that in everything you say, there are numbers, but no! On a quickly-briefed individual from the National Assembly, with all due respect, but organizations living from this, humanitarian organizations say, FIHO concludes in a way, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] that this law is totally unacceptable and undermines the autonomy of financing of disability and humanitarian organisations. What you're saying is no guarantee. You may be a Member, you may not, you express your client's opinion, but a list of these tenderers or these organisations [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u19	Come on, buddy. Come on. Come on. Come on. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u20	I don't know why you're nervous and yelling around the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u21	Tell me where you're misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u22	They're actually talking about that everything you say isn't true. And that's the whole line. Among them, Karitas and many other disability and humanitarian organizations as well as sports. So who are we gonna trust? In fact, those stakeholders who, due to this amendment, will be deprived of the law and that fact will be confirmed by clear evidence and calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u23	Dear German colleague, that was not a replica. The replica says, so it's written in the rules of procedure, that the one who thinks he's misinterpreted is speaking. Now those of you who want to come to the table with counterarguments, you have a chance, we have time to do this, you can sign up, and I'll give you my word, there's no problem. Procedural proposal, colleague Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u24	Dear President, I expect you to conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to make such abuses of the Rules of Procedure as has now been learned by a respected German colleague, to give him a warning or to take away his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u25	I warned my colleague, so... [[…]] Anyone else want a replica? No, no, no. Okay. I would really like you to sign up for those who have counterarguments and then you can say everything that someone you think has said wrong and you know better. Let's move on. The word is Gregor the Jew.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I was one of those who, at the beginning of my term, cheered for foreign betting to come to Slovenia, frankly. During that time, I made a lot of information about these things, and I realized that my beliefs were wrong, not because of the fact that I was looking on the side of the bet, but on the part of those who benefited from it. This is said, in this case we are talking about humanitarian and disability organisations and sports organisations. In this new proposal or law, I see no improvement in this direction, so that these bets will benefit this organisation, which allows people to sometimes put their destiny on the ground. We know that bets are always a very strange matter, usually spoken only by those who win in bets, but not by those who lose; and those who, believe me, are much more than those who receive. Maybe, for starters, that was it. I still think that the Sports Lottery and the Lottery of Slovenia have proven to be a valuable element in this sports betting and sporting events. But I don't understand how it's said around here that Novomatic is supposed to be coming to our market – because if we look at some things in the tenders, they can only be a lot bigger players in these bets. I played bets myself. Understand that those best players who receive some income or some income from it really don't play here, and then they won't play later. Believe me, they won't play. You just drive from Maribor to Leibnitz, you normally play the bet, you don't have to pay any taxes. Then why would he bet with us when it's kind of settled? He's not stupid! I wouldn't be either. To explain the betting quotas. This is also one of the reasons why they go abroad. It is true, because there are higher bets, higher quotas, as a result of also greater gains, but you know that they cannot give us such a high quota because simply, if they gave such high quotas, then there would be nothing left for those of us who receive from these bets, it is called sports and disability organisations. The arrival of new bidders will indeed raise these quotas, they will indeed rise because they will compete with each other. As a result, there will again be a lower income for those we know to benefit from it. We know that in the end it is paid from that difference between the plus and the minus of the Sports lottery and the lottery of Slovenia. That's what they say. As a result, lower incomes don't convince me. I have received a hint or this is now almost a public secret that the government has promised disability organisations to cover a possible minus in their income, but I have not heard anything that this same thing would offer to sports organisations. We understand that disabled people are vulnerable groups, but sports aren't from flies either. In a few days, we'll all be beating each other's chests, and that's what we did when there's gonna be a medal at the Olympics, but if there's less money for it, there's gonna be less medals. One more thing; the Slovenian market is limited. There's only two million of us. I think that's quite enough for two bidders, but whether we call it duopol or not, I don't think promoting bets is appropriate. Not to mention this addiction, because my predecessors have already said a lot about it. However, I would just add that if we saw that this was leading to some dependency, I would rather expect that the number of bidders would be reduced, but not increased, because once the bets were increased, this dependency would also increase, which would cost the country ten times more at the end of the day. I'd just like to say it for the end. For me personally, all the bad solutions in this proposal are, that is to say, no improvement in the current situation. However, we are fighting to improve the situation in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Washington Consensus sums up three policies that were cemented in the West in the early 1990s; these are privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation policies. It has been 30 years since then, and since then these policies have already been bankrupted twice by privatisation, deregulation and liberalisation. For the first time, they became heavily bankrupt in 2007 and 2008 with the advent of a financial collapse that has brought the whole world to a decade-long economic crisis. Second, they went bankrupt with the arrival of the covida-19 epidemic, which exposed the vulnerability of the global market and the dependence of society on robust state administration, not from market prices, where it is most sold and where it is most expensive to buy. Therefore, the policies of the Washington Consensus have proved to be completely flawed and have been reviving, at the end of the current mandate, we can monitor the government's attempt to intervene in the gambling law, with which it has been implementing precisely what has been cancelled twice in the last three decades; it is said: deregulation, liberalisation and privatisation. In particular, this means a risk of changing ownership shares in casinos, specifically with this law aimed at Hit, d.d., which we would like to privatise. Here are the withdrawals of licences for casino workers, which means that many more people will be able to access and perform the work of casino workers, without question whether they are actually qualified or not. Then there is a way of awarding concessions for special gambling, which would make the whole area of what can and should not be liberalised as part of gambling. In addition, the market now managed and regulated by the state opens for some new private players, and on the other hand, we have sports, disability and humanitarian organisations that will experience as a result of the government's gambling law a fallout. They charged themselves with up to 30 percent. We already know that people with disabilities are not a priority for this country, we know that sport is underfunded, we know that humanitarian organisations have an increasing role in parallel to the fact that they are abolishing, cutting and cutting the social state, and are often the only entry point that can help people at all, while the government is looking away at a quarter of a million poor people in this country. I think all of these are strong enough reasons why the current law needs to be rejected. If you want a slightly more general case, which is not just about gambling, it is about privatisation. Just look at our own history in the last three decades and tell me and show me one good example of privatisation. Show me one company, one bank, anything in this country that was privatized opened up to some foreign capital, and then suddenly flourished that it was better for the industry, that it was better for the employees, that it was better for the company itself and, after all, for the local communities where these companies are located. There's been a lot of privatisation. Show me one thing that we can call successful, honest privatisation, here, the social goals we have achieved through this privatisation! I remember a few years ago when Levica first entered the National Assembly. The question of privatisation was then very high on the agenda. We talked, say, about the opposition to the privatisation of Helios, which the Austrian Ring entered. He immediately fired a few hundred employees, terminated the fire brigade, which operated in the company and sold the company for a very fat profit to a new private owner. Every privatisation story in this country follows the same hoof, and we face this whole chain of bad cases and bankrupt political decisions, now on the nose, before the end of the term, we have committed the same thing over the regulated gambling industry, cut out the employees who work there, bring in private capital and desolate the local community around Hit, d. d., which lives there.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The cost of relying on these gambling is significantly higher than the expected positive effects on the state budget, which is my opinion. Without dependence, there would be much less social pressures, there would be less domestic violence, less crime, fewer suicides and lower budget costs for all these activities that the budget now has to finance, such as health bills, such as social assistance and so on. However, gambling, gaming tourism, gambling are one of the very profitable industries. We must not forget that gambling has been accompanied by history, but at the same time its development is accompanied by an individual’s addiction and many other negative phenomena. In view of the various research, we can see that gambling is massively played by the lower and medium levels of the population, primarily motivated by the promises of quick earnings, with a small stake, by the system, because you know what 10 euros per week we can spend on happiness, but monthly it can be very fast 40 euros, and this figure changes very quickly to 400 euros per year and more, and the chance for happiness alone at drawing is astronomically low. But there's always this one: what if I'm lucky. [[…]] Fortunately, we have our own games of chance quite regulated. We can witness the betting stands abroad at every turn, and we aim to have games conducted in an orderly, controlled and controlled environment. Gambling can only be organised on the basis of the permission or concession of the competent authority and the concession fee is a source of funding for socially beneficial disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. With today's novelty, the government is expected to establish a legal framework that will allow for transparent allocation of concessions for the permanent adaptation of classical gambling and for the adaptation of specific gambling. By removing the requirement that a company wishing to obtain a concession for the adaptation of specific gambling is established in Slovenia, the legal arrangements for the organisation of gambling should be aligned with the legal order of the European Union. Concessions for the permanent organisation of classical gambling and for the adaptation of special gambling should be awarded on the basis of a call for proposals. According to the Government's assessment, the bill would have a positive impact on the state budget for taxes and other public funds. More money is supposed to go to sport and disability organisations, which gives a seemingly positive connotation to support this bill. However, we Members have received very many comments and complaints from these NGOs and other interested public. I myself estimate that the cost of gambling dependence will be significantly higher for a longer period than the expected positive effects on the state budget. However, the proposed material leaves me with great doubts and unanswered questions. Whether the potential adoption of such a bill would actually have a positive impact on the public financial picture and not negatively on the consequences for the citizen. By adopting the proposal, will we harm people by raising their addiction and thus cause even greater social distress, domestic violence and thus further burden the health system and, consequently, the budgetary treasury? I am confident that the current socio-social situation is extremely favourable to increasing interest in gambling, and thus multiplying all the negative consequences that this activity brings. The elimination of the State monopoly, in this case duopol, would also increase competition between suppliers, and gains would be frequent and higher, which would also attract a larger number of players. In the long run, this game would be lost by smaller, in which case domestic tenderers would not be competitive [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Igor Peček has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me also a shorter introduction, which I will begin with the thought of an eminent gentleman who has been for several decades. For he said, "Democratic politics is one who says most of the things most people think." And if I attach myself to that thought of his, I have a crucial question. In view of all the opposition from stakeholders, I can simply ask the public who supports this bill at all? Otherwise, who can be identified by this proposal? I also do not understand what the goal of the Government or the Ministry of Finance is or what the purpose of this or the amendment of the law is. In fact, in one of the explanations of the Ministry of Finance, I will quote it as follows: “The proposed concession award system will allow more active management of concession policy, which will gradually redirect the existing gambling offer to those areas where market conditions and demand exist.” End of story. What can I think of in such an explanation? Is it to pursue the objective of market liberalisation or consumer protection and to prevent the negative effects of excessive gambling? In fact, if it is to protect players, the offer must be limited and must not allow not to say hunting for new players and finding market opportunities for new bidders. Here I would like to refer to Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which clearly states that any Member State wishing to ensure high consumer protection in gambling must establish a system so that public authorities can effectively control the process of events. This means that they control crime, fraud and money laundering and that it is the aim of preventing the excessive use of consumer money in gambling and preventing addiction to them. According to the opinion that this is also legal practice, the system of gambling should follow these two objectives or the key principles, but we know that the amendment of the law was prepared without the analysis of the foreseeable negative social impacts of these changes, or the analysis that we could read or have been made available in reading the material and explaining the new law, is very weak and I am not sure that it uses the right data or reliable data. In this I refer only to those other analyses that we can or have had the opportunity to read and are, I think, prepared on more relevant grounds, which have been prepared by the European Commission in the end. In view of the fact that I have already said several times that I cannot support such a bill, I will not state the reasons here. Finally, I would just like to give an additional explanation for our amendment, given the adoption of the amendment to the Committee on Finance. In fact, this is understood primarily as a response to the fact that the proposal for the amendment of the Gambling Act does not contain those other necessary analyses from the first one I mentioned, on the negative effects of the economic analysis – which would cover all the effects and consequences of the amendment of the legislation governing gambling, but it is understood that this amendment is indeed an attempt to calm the passions or contradictions of novels, which are based on both disability, humanitarian and sports organisations, which in some way would maintain stable funding for all civil society groups without additional burdens on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u34	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In my debate on the amendment of the law on the adaptation of gambling, I would like to touch on an additional aspect that has not been discussed today. In Slovenia we go capitalism without domestic bourgeoisie and domestic investment funds. And this law also acts in the direction of destroying domestic capital, regardless of who owns it: whether it is an individual, whether it is a dispersed shareholder, or whether it is a state, a local self-government, a congregation. It's the kind of thing that creates new value, no matter who owns it. It's meant for that. Well, that's not much of a Slovenian specialty. If we look at other countries around the world that are at the brink of more developed countries than we are, for example, Eastern European countries, as well as the countries of South and Central America, capital at the edge of the world is not able to manage effectively even through the exchange of policy in power. The reason is that capitalism is effective, it is capital rule, it requires that the company manages a single block, a relatively uniform block, which is in capitalism of ruling groups, that is domestic capital, domestic bourgeoisie, economic and political bureaucracy, that is, good institutions, with sufficient support from the middle class. Then things work. We don't have that. And in other post-socialist countries, too, it has not been fulfilled. However, we are in such a worse position than the Visegra Group because we do not support domestic capital, we simply do not support it and leave Slovenia to foreign capital and thus to our independence. That's what this law is. It's going this way. Although the current government's policy at first sight – since the President is following Orban – is to follow some of the liberal policies of the countries of the Visegraj Group, that is not at all true. In fact, organising the country in an iliberal sense, as Orban wants, is something else. Viktor Orban described the essence of the iliber policy in his speech in 2014 exactly. Let me quote: "More important than economic competition is how to rent a country that will be most able to lead the nation to success. The new country we are establishing is an liberal state, not a liberal state; it is a state organisation based on national interests." Those are his words. Despite an antihuman nature, this liberal government in Hungary, as well as in Poland, enjoys much support from the crowds. In this current government these, sorry, national interests do not appear. Just the opposite! The current actions – leaving the pearls of Slovenian tourism to foreigners and also arranging gambling – show completely different interests. Obviously, not on the national level, but on the narrow interests of individual groups. The policy of the current government is indeed similar to that of the Hungarian or Polish governments, but the difference is that our government no longer clearly supports domestic capital, but capital at all. In doing so, however, it is heartwarming to say that the former governments, both right and left, have destroyed, destroyed or sold out the most important companies. In fact, the current government has little to support. So, from this blind street in Hungary and Poland, they're looking for some way out of the liberal policy that the previous governments have taken them to. Too many acts show that the current government serves primarily foreign capital or transnational capital. It has, for example, enacted a form of platform work to please Uber. The Hungarian transnational OTP allowed it to become the strongest banking group in Slovenia. Even when the coalition SMC ruled, it amended the whole law so that foreign capital could set up a dirty industrial facility on the best agricultural land and on the water reserve. The planned 780 million to purchase weapons for military operations abroad is also a service to the Western military industry. Also, an agreement with the United States by which we gave up the most important technology of the Chinese producer Huawei. So, no matter what, the fact remains that without domestic capital it is impossible to create domestic bourgeoisie and investment funds. If Tans national capital controls the basic production processes in our country and assumes a greater part of the excess value, as we will also see in this law if it enters into force, it is not possible to keep the sitm in good shape. The government, however, is looking for what I know, some other parties in the creation of some domestic governance structures that are not even a capitalist class. This phenomenon was described by Czech thinker Karel Kosik in 1997 and the phenomenon was also named Lumpenburgjasia, which links entrepreneurship to the mafia, fraud and criminal underworld. The simplest way is to be seen now is to be adopted with legal tools. So this government reduces taxes and reduces taxes on securities, encourages speculation and so on. Furthermore, bringing public money to private people – including the privatisation of health and education – is a systemic tool for this transfer, as well as insurance and pension system. That doesn't do us any good. And these are not random isolated cases, this is a phenomenon in which the whole logic of this government is revealed and which leads to the weakening of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Any more interest in that? Yes, it is. Just Primoz? Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Sutter's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Perhaps just the answer to some of the allegations, especially from my colleague Pogačnik, I did not answer the replica earlier because there was some hot blood on the floor. The representative of the coalition, a representative of the government coalition, says, of course, that the proposal before us, I quote, "resolves conditions where the area is not organised optimally". Now, optimally it can also be a little relative, it can be pleasant for one participant, but there is no one else in that area or vice versa. But the fact is in the area that we have mentioned most today, and this is the impact of the proposed law on the work of disabled and humanitarian organisations, the fact is that there are relatively satisfactory stakeholders in this area, i.e. representatives of humanitarian organisations, representatives of sports organisations, representatives of disability organisations. Now we have a proposal here that privatises this area, which lowers the standards of professionalism in employees and forgets about social security guards in a particular sector such as gambling, which brings about dependency and other social consequences under this heading. And now colleague Pogačnik says that in the area of funding for humanitarian, disability and sports organisations there are things, so little over the finger, and they are dosed to speak in mind in the opposition. That's not true! In fact, what I heard in the opposition debates in defence and in disabled and humanitarian organisations, we are basically talking, translating their concerns; we are translating the concerns of these organisations and the numbers that they have actually charged themselves. I admit, I'm not an expert and I'm not a member and I'm not a representative of these organizations, but I trust the projections they made themselves. In FIHU, for example, they point out that opening up the market for classical gambling, setting a minimum concession rate, in the proposal is only 5 per cent of the current concession rate on average of 43 per cent – that they will, I quote, “directly affect the volume of funds allocated to disabled and humanitarian organisations and inevitably result in a significant reduction in the volume of these funds”. We are, therefore, talking about a key problem, the significant extent to which the financing of humanitarian and disability organisations and their work have been reduced. Then their projection says that about 30 per cent of concessions for FIHO are falling here and thus the level of funding for specific social programmes, and the bill does not contain financial analyses suggesting otherwise. Thus, a well-respected coalition colleague, not that humanitarian organisations have not done so, either the stakeholders in the field or the opposition has not made any efforts to recalculate, analyse and project how the situation will be translated into the lives of disabled and humanitarian organisations and consequently to people who have received humanitarian assistance and disabled persons. The architect of this law has not done these analyses! The architect of this law, so the government did not foresee a 30% drop in concessions for disabled and humanitarian organisations! Thus, my question, with which my first intervention ended, remains open: What does this government have against the disabled?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. The cook wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u38	Replica, because I was directly exposed. Maybe Siter's colleague misunderstood. I just mentioned the facts, not the projection. The facts are: 2008 gross revenue from gambling was around 418 million and 2019 was 323. This means a fall in income for almost 100 million euros and nobody is dealing with it. Why? These are also smaller funds for humanitarian organisations and sports organisations. As I mentioned, I'm sure because of the players' departure abroad. Today, this law allows at least one player to return to Slovenia and this will increase income, both for FIHO and for the Sports Foundation. It's the only thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. In this article or in the future? Under this Article. Elena Ushaj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. Very well greeted fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I didn't intend to come forward because there was a lot of talk about this law, and I really thought that we would focus today on amendments only. But because it went wider, and yet as a New Yorker, I would not think of it, but I would say the facts, because more than once today it was repeated that we did not speak on facts or colleague Pogačnik, that he did not speak on facts and that he was lonely. That is why I would like to read from the meeting that was held in Novi Gorica City Council and probably because Levica also has an expert associate, who is a city councillor, he probably took note of what was going on at this meeting when the report on the work of the Hit was presented, where they also discussed the draft law that we have today under consideration. I must say that colleagues from both the Left and the SD, I think they are not familiar, and it seems that they do not live in Nova Gorica, but only receive flat-rate information from Nova Gorica and, of course, what they also want to continue to produce in public. I will read from the minutes of the meeting what the President of the Hit administration has given you, which has not been placed under this government, but under the previous government, so you won't be making any excuses that again is someone that this government has put in place. This is about revenue, because we talk so much about how much Hit brings to the environment in Nova Gorica. The hit in Novi Gorica at this time brings much less, and we cannot go back to the years when it really brought a lot of money to society and to the congregation itself. The hit has been facing problems in the last period in terms of overworked workers; it is said that solutions must be sought to forgive as few people as possible. The president of the board made it clear that gaming tables produce negative business results and gaming machines or, compared to gaming machines, they generate millions of profits. This means that, in fact, Hit lives more or less and above all from the operation of gaming machines, while the gaming tables are no longer as profitable as they were in the past, meaning that already from this title Hit gets much less than he got. Then they also discussed further what administrations felt about the change of ownership proposed by the Government in the Law on Gambling, namely, that ownership was not defined by the administration because it considered that this was a question of owners. In the meeting when we had him with the representatives of the Hit, however, it was said that they did not object to the topic. Then we would also refer to the issue of licences. I will read how it has been said about licences, because we always listen from the point of view of employees, and we need to look at what this also means for Hit if we want to talk about what brings negative and positive changes in legislation. It has been said that this, once again by the President of the Management Board of Hit, is a different position; it is said that it is a trade union. “For the view that licenses allow for the entry of low-payers, I do not see this,” I quote the president of the board, Mr Repinc, “licences came to the casino industry in 2000, the initiator was Hit. At this point, we see this as a restriction mainly because it means additional bureaucracy, it means restriction. It is said that only certain works can be performed by the licencee. If I give you an example: we have a need on the gaming machines and maybe we have too many on the gaming tables, and we would just decide and train him in one week to start working. Of course we can't do that. Why? Because the licenses aren't the same. Of course, these licenses within processes are in fact very limited by flexibility. in the case of employees, where there is a kind of fear for jobs, these jobs are protected by the Labour Relations Act. And just as it protects employees of the Labour Relations Act, licenses do not protect them at all; so they do not protect them. In fact, in the Rules on Licenses, the Rules on Standards, the language is virtually out of Slovenian and there are no restrictions, so we claim” – says the administration – “and we are also in this position that actual licenses only determine what someone inside the casino processes. In order to do this, we need to send someone to the Ministry of Finance, where they decide to get a license. Of course, this process costs – the first thing – “and it may take a month or even two if the Commission meets or does not. If we have a man we need tomorrow and we put him in a business process and we hire him, we can't hire him, so we have to wait a month to get a license. This is just bureaucracy and restriction, so the management does not agree, in essence, that licences protect employees. Licenses are bureaucracy, licenses limit flexibility within casino operations, so we are in favour of abolishing these licenses here.” So, on the one hand, you wanted to protect Hit's business in the debates, and on the other hand, you're restricting Hit to develop. It is said that it would lower its costs for the operation to be more current and that there would be no restrictions on rapid responses, such as the epidemic, when the number of employees was constantly changing. So I wanted to say with this because I stopped by, just that it seems that those who discussed and talked about Hit just from a certain point of view seem to have only partial information or just want to have some information. My colleague Pogačnik spoke about the facts, as well as I speak about the facts and the fact that I live in Nova Gorica and not only receive information from Nova Gorica, as did the Members who discussed before me today and in previous discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. A replica or a debate? It's a debate. Anyone else want a debate? Matjaž German, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! I'm not calling myself an expert in the field of gambling. I have lived with gambling since I was a teenager in a city that applies to Slovenia's Las Vegas. Of course, in the way that many of my acquaintances, friends, even family members are involved in this industry, of course, with the knowledge of how it contributes to society in the form of concessions or mass employment that the Goriška region has, not only the Goriška region, but also other gambling centres in Slovenia, which are connected or not with Hit and other companies that carry out special gambling, and of course the experience as a person who has seen many families fail because of addiction. This is mainly in the late 1990s, the beginning of this century. The hit was designed in the late 1980s and was mainly concentrated on the Italian market. It was known that in a radius of 300 kilometres, these so-called daily players, due to the good offer they received in Novi Gorica and due to the restrictions they received in Italy, they were very fond of going to Yugoslavia at the time, later to Slovenia, and in addition to tourist activities or in addition to gaming activities, they were trying to establish a tourist centre with various tourist activities in the form of other tourist offers. And that is exactly what should be the goal: that is, Gorica or Nova Gorica as a tourist destination. Of course, he was in the first Janshea government, and I personally welcomed it at the time, trying to find a partner, a strategic partner in Hit. Then, if you remember, it was American Haras, where we would have opened our offer in Novi Gorica somewhat also for the wider world, not only for the 300km radius target group, these are more or less than said, Italians, but it was then tried to remember those who know this industry, especially players from Israel, from Turkey and other distant countries to attract to Nova Gorica. Of course, in order to do so, it was also necessary to invest in other additional services, not just and exclusively in gambling. Of course, because of some of the wrong decisions of Hita's leaders and I have to stress the impact of all policies, both left and right, directly in the casino giant slightly lost that thread on the strategy. A number of wrong investments were booming, along with the crisis that had arisen and along with an exhausted territory of 300 kilometres, that Hit had actually reduced its scope of work and thus was also known in the local community as well as in the employees. This is not about helping Hit in this way, with the changes we have received in gambling, in any way; far from it. The hit could be helped by amending tax legislation or perhaps by a strategic partner where this market could increase slightly and accessibility to this tourism sector in Goriška as well as elsewhere. So, on the one hand, we're saying what advocates work or employees in Hit, what happens daily, as they say, in the factory, on the other hand, what advocates administration. And it is this kind of conflict of opinion that is always the subject of political accounting. It is very difficult for me to imagine that the current administration of any kind, not just Hita, a state-owned company, would speak in violation of the Government's requirements. We are very well aware of what has happened to the company GENSI, other New York companies, and what is happening everywhere in the Slovenian economy with those administrations that are not according to the regelecs according to the mentality of the current political leadership. We are talking about someone with little hope from the leading economists, who are at the head of state-owned enterprises, to make any statement with words that are not in agreement with the minister or with the government's suit. We are talking about licensing and the standard achieved in this sector. We talk a lot about deregulation of many industries. We talked in Parliament months ago about what deregulation means, say, in a restaurant. What it means when this inn explains, substantiates, offers services, offers professionally, or what it means to carry out the profession of innkeeper someone who does not actually have any previous knowledge and does not actually raise the culinary industry, which is now very high in Slovenia, to this desired level. It's very similar in gambling, but with its specifics, even psychological ones, if we're being honest. In fact, the player at the time of playing gambling experiences various mental states and just knows how, just how, the knowledge they have, acquired knowledge, and we have even developed many of them in our home country, right in Hit and other companies, are very important to maintain certain standards in the offer. No one can come in a few days and play such an important role as a communicator, a link between the provider of a particular service, in this case a casino, and, on the other hand, the customers. So it's about trying to keep a certain standard in this case, as in many others, and that's what this is about. Competition is unforgivable. Today, when a person enters a tavern or a playroom, he needs to feel relatively good. Those who take care of it in the first place are employees. The staff must be educated, have a suitable approach and, of course, the staff must be satisfied in their place of employment, with their job and with the role they play as one of the mandatory members of this society. So it's about trying to keep some standard – of course, in this case with Hit and with other providers – associated with certain costs. But the standard costs money! And if we want to create added value in our society, we have to invest the most in people. And that's a fact both in this industry and in many others. And it is precisely by this deregulation, by withdrawing licensing, that this labour market is also being tried to liberalise, if I may say so, in certain companies and thereby lower the standard of service. That's exactly what we're warning you about. In fact, it's not about someone who knows more, who doesn't, who's at home with Goriski and who doesn't. The point is that in large cases there is a healthy farmer's mind in order to actually try to respond to the challenges of modern times and in such a way as to interfere with the amendment of the Law on Gambling, certainly not, but we help to increase addiction due to the greater accessibility you want. Based on the example of Bosnia, Croatia, we will be able to have in Gorica and in other places the so-called bookies or the betting pools, where accessibility will be so great, and, of course, the release of the market by the entry of foreign major players, which will attract new and new players in the relatively closed round. Indeed, addiction in the Republic of Slovenia, as far as gambling is concerned, is manageable so far – so far it is manageable – there are no significant shifts, there are individual cases, certainly, but not as massive as they were at the time I mentioned earlier. We do not understand why some liberalisation would follow the example of countries, such as the Czech Republic, which have done exactly what you want, and the situation of addiction has deteriorated significantly, and consequently with all the social, health consequences of the state treasury, of course, in the context of rational interest. On the other hand, we are talking about individuals, families, individuals who have many bad experiences and possibly even tragedies. So, we have to start with the "shocking hands". I myself agree that the gambling law would require certain changes, but not in the direction you propose. As for aid and Hita, I see no single reason to call it and impute it to the law to help Hit in any way, as has already been said, hit as a casino provider, unless you sell it, to the extent that we understand that Slovenians can also be well managed by Slovenian companies, and politics does not get involved again and again in these companies. When we have so much confidence that not only foreigners abroad can be good, but that we also manage our companies, then Hit will be able to prosper again. What Hit did in the 1990s and later for a successful company is the feeling that each individual employed in Hit is an important part of the development of this company. It's not like that anymore. It is therefore important to maintain good relations both from leadership to unions and, of course, in relation to the country and politics. What we're doing is not a rescue and not a help to Heath, but it's actually a branch that's been relatively well-managed to date, especially with regard to funding for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. And today you're shutting down this relationship. On the other hand, on the other hand, there are other levers for achieving this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Come on, Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Just a few last words. Indeed, when we are talking about gambling, we are talking not only about the economic sector, but about one broad social challenge, which is why a broad picture should also be taken into account here. I agree with the MEP from Nova Gorica, who presented the position of the Hit administration in essence and forgot to give the whole picture the position of all stakeholders who are important here. And once again, if I am the last, let me point out in what way and how decisively negative the local community has responded to, so busy in the company, which is the most affected by this law or the amendment of this law, how clearly, decisively, negatively, they have resisted the title of humanitarian and disability organisations. Employees have warned how deregulation and privatisation are harmful for them, for workers and workers, put them in a tight competitive position, they will have to work for less pay in poorer conditions. Of course, the administration can come with some winged, ey, the Labour Relations Act here is the main regulation that corrects everything; but hey, they probably heard in the administration about penitentiary work, agency employment, especation, contractual employment and so on. Workers point to social dumping and point out that, of course, the proposed deregulation was not in line with the social partners. This is not a dialogue that this government knows at all. Most fitting is the fact that the government still has 30 minutes of room there to talk, and that's not the decision to make. And the workers, by the way, are predicting a strike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I see that no and that we have concluded this general debate, which was not in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 20 and to the amendment of the left-wing groups and the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is very simple for this amendment to be incorporated into the law that the local community in which this casino operates should also say so in the case of a stake sold in the state casino, otherwise any sale contract must be null and void.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left for a new article 47a. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 48 and to the amendment of the left-wing groups and the Social Democrats. Anybody want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. Does the government want a word in conclusion? You have the floor, Secretary of State Maja Hostnik Kališek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to explain in the end some of the additional provisions that have been discussed in this debate today. It could just start with a vision relating to the proposed amendment, which provides for the coverage of a possible manoeuvring, both for the Disability and Humanitarian Foundation and for the Sports Organisation Foundation, from the budget. Here, it would explain that this provision, together with the proposed increase in the legal minimum rate of concession fee, is followed by concerns about the financing of both disabled and sports organisations. The concession fees for classical gambling are set in the range of 25 to 45 percent. The law thus far did not provide for a minimum duty, so this proposed amendment does not mean a reduction in concession fees, but merely provides for a minimum rate of concessional duty of at least 25 per cent. As far as the tip and the tickets are concerned. There are no changes in this regard, which means that such a system is maintained as is already in force in law today. Both the fees and the admission fees shall not be included in the basics for the concession fee. As far as the licenses are concerned. In this case, it is the removal of administrative barriers. If licences for certain works are to be removed, this does not mean that certain standards or playing standards will not be complied with. There was also talk of regulating gambling in other countries. Here it could only be explained that these monopolies in other countries refer to the segment of lottery games. However, as regards other types of classical gambling, it is said that sports betting, either countries have unlimited licensing or have a limited number of organisers, such as Italy. The monopoly for sports betting is Hungary and Finland and currently Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Katji Lavtar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u50	Your Honor, thank you. The Law on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme transposed the European Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes into the domestic legal order. This law thus specifies the amount to which the individual investor's deposits are guaranteed to each bank are determined by the manager of the deposit guarantee system in the Republic of Slovenia and its tasks and competences, as well as the Deposit Guarantee Fund, from which it will also be paid to investors in the event of the failure of the guarantee bank. We do not interfere with the proposed law in the deposit guarantee system, but we are simply addressing the shortcomings identified in the review process carried out by the European Commission's professional services in relation to the transposition of each directive. These deficiencies relate to the possibility of combining the national deposit guarantee system with one or more deposit guarantee schemes from other Member States of the European Union or the possibility of establishing a cross-border deposit guarantee system. They also refer to the arrangements for the transfer of bank contributions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the event that a bank transfers part of its activities to another Member State of the European Union. The failure to limit the advertising of the level of the deposit guarantee applicable to all banks and not only to branches of third-country banks is also addressed. In addition, the proposal provides that the Bank of Slovenia may manage the assets of the Deposit Guarantee Fund together with other assets of the Bank of Slovenia or other assets in the management of the Bank of Slovenia if it provides a separate bookkeeping record for the assets and liabilities of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. With this solution, Banka Slovenije will be able to achieve a higher return on the funds it raises in the funds it manages, as if it manages these funds separately. Finally, I would like to point out that the shortcomings identified in the transposition of the directive in the deposit guarantee schemes into the domestic legal order have in no way affected the current functioning of the deposit guarantee system in the Republic of Slovenia. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 43rd meeting, on 19 January this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely one article. In its introduction, the Secretary of State presented the objectives and main solutions of the draft law to address individual shortcomings in the transposition of Directive 2014/49 of the European Union. However, these shortcomings did not affect the functioning of the deposit guarantee system itself. The law sets out the amount to which the individual investor's roles are guaranteed to each bank and also provides for the manager of the deposit guarantee system in the Republic of Slovenia and its tasks and responsibilities. It also identifies the deposit guarantee fund from which investors will be paid in the event of the bankruptcy of the guarantee bank. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the service had drawn up a written opinion and explained that the comments concerning Article 3 were taken into account by the amendment tabled by the members of the Coalition. At the same time, she mentioned or pointed to the opinion of the service that there was a lack of clarity in Articles 6 to 8 thereof. In the debate, MEPs and Members asked questions about the supervision of the pooled deposit guarantee system and the possible greater profitability of the Joint Guarantee Funds. The Secretary of State replied to the questions raised in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Jure Ferrjan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u54	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members of Parliament! The aim of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme is to remedy the shortcomings in the transposition of Directive 2014/49/EU into the domestic legal order, since the current regime of the guarantee for applications in the Republic of Slovenia is not fully consistent with European Union law. The Law on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme governs the establishment and functioning of the Deposit Guarantee Scheme for Banks and Custodians in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the powers and tasks of the Bank of Slovenia in the exercise of the functions and powers of the Deposit Guarantee Authority and the supervision of compliance with the Deposit Guarantee Scheme. Under the law on the deposit guarantee system, one deposit guarantee system has been established in the country, and all banks and savings banks established in our country have been authorised under certain conditions, as well as third-country banks which have been authorised to establish a branch in Slovenia in accordance with this law or law governing banking. The amount of the margin for each investor or individual investor’s role in one bank is EUR 100 000, except for certain applications, for example for applications resulting from the purchase or sale of residential property, social, health or life insurance payments or disability payments, may also be higher than that amount. In the context of the procedure for verifying the correctness of the said Directive, the European Commission has drawn attention to some shortcomings that need to be addressed. This is an area which governs the possibility of combining deposit guarantee systems from different Member States of the European Union or the establishment of cross-border deposit guarantee schemes, an area which provides that, when a part of the bank's activity is transferred to another Member State of the European Union, which makes it subject to another deposit guarantee system, the contributions of that bank paid within 12 months prior to the transfer, with exceptional contributions, shall be transferred to another deposit guarantee system in proportion to the amount of applications transferred. And an area which provides for restrictions on the advertising of bank services in relation to membership in the deposit guarantee system. The draft law or amendment of a law drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia removes these shortcomings in the transposition of this European Directive. He would also point out that the proposal for a law or amendment would further enable the Bank of Slovenia, which, in addition to the deposit guarantee fund, also manages the bank resolution fund established by the Authority Act and the bank resolution fund, to manage the funds of both funds actively together. This ensures the separate management of funds for each of those funds at the level of separate accounting records. The draft law also follows the principle of clarity and transparency of the legal regime. In view of the above, we will unanimously support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Deposit Guarantee System in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Igor Peček will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme governs the establishment and operation of a deposit guarantee system for banks and savings banks in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also a matter of establishing the powers and responsibilities of the Bank of Slovenia in the exercise of the functions and powers as the Deposit Guarantee Authority and the supervision of compliance with the Deposit Guarantee Scheme. Although the target value of the fund is 0.8% of the value of all guaranteed deposits in the Republic of Slovenia and must be reached by 3 July 2024 at the latest. According to Banka Slovenije, banks and savings banks paid EUR 122.4 million to the Deposit Guarantee Fund until last July, with a target of around €180 million. The news we are considering today allows the current deposit guarantee system to be merged with one or more deposit guarantee schemes established in other Member States of the European Union that meet the conditions laid down in the Directive. The merger proposal is to be submitted by the Bank of Slovenia, which manages the system, following prior agreement by the Government. The draft law also regulates that when a bank transfers part of its services to other Member States of the European Union to another deposit guarantee system, only a proportionate part of the contributions paid to the deposit guarantee fund shall be transferred to another deposit guarantee scheme, according to the amount of the deposits transferred. Banka Slovenije will be able to manage the assets of the Deposit Guarantee Fund together with other assets of Banka Slovenije or other assets in the management of Banka Slovenije and will have to maintain a separate bookkeeping record for the assets and liabilities of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The aim of the novel is to strengthen investor protection and legal certainty, so we will not oppose the amendment in the Marjana Sharca Letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the law on the deposit guarantee system is made by meaningful compliance with European Union secondary legislation. The aim of the bill is to remedy some shortcomings in the transposition of Directive 2014/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 2014 on guarantee schemes for applications into the domestic legal order. The failure to transpose that Directive shall be addressed. The supplement allows the deposit guarantee system to be recognised as a deposit guarantee system that would arise, for the first time, by combining the current deposit guarantee system with one or more deposit guarantee schemes in other Member States of the European Union, and for the second time by establishing a cross-border deposit guarantee system, which would also be members of banks that would otherwise be required members of the national deposit guarantee system. The proposal to merge or establish a cross-border deposit guarantee system will be submitted by the Bank of Slovenia and this proposal will require prior agreement by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia will submit such a proposal only if it assesses that supervision of the operations of banks in other Member States of the European Union is at least equivalent to bank supervision in Slovenia. The failure to transpose Article 16, paragraph 5, of that Directive shall be addressed. The restrictions on advertising services of the bank, in particular those related to the deposit guarantee, will apply to all banks and all savings banks in Slovenia that are members of the deposit guarantee system established under the law and not only to advertising services of the bank's branch in a third country. Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be unanimously supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Guarantee Scheme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Your Honor! The core objectives of the entire deposit guarantee system are aimed at protecting investors and maintaining their confidence in the banking system. The deposit guarantee system is actually a fund to which banks and savings banks are paid. The Fund is managed and managed by the Bank of Slovenia. The management focussed on the provision of quick cash, rather than on the achievement of high returns. The essence of this fund is that at the time of the collapse of the bank, funds are provided for the payment of guaranteed deposits. Let us recall that in 2016, the European Directive was transposed late by the adoption of the Law on the guarantee system for applications to the national legal order. In 2016, the deposit guarantee system was not re-established as it was already established in the Banking Act. The transposition of the Directive has resulted in improvements to the whole system and in compliance with European Union law. Before that, the Banking Act provided that the funds for the payment of a guarantee amounting to EUR 100 000 were subsequently provided by banks involved in such a scheme and temporarily by the Republic of Slovenia if the banks did not have the funds. Today, money for guarantees is provided from the outside. The law has established a gradual reduction in the deadlines for payments to investors in failed banks, so that this period will not exceed seven working days in 2024. Membership has become compulsory for all banks established in Slovenia and under certain conditions for third country banks. Today's novelties are being adopted because of the European Commission, which has warned us of certain shortcomings that the amendment is correcting. The amendments allow for the integration of the national deposit guarantee system with the systems of other Member States and a proportional transfer of the bank's contributions to the other Member State's system if the bank changes its seat. The proposal for a merger will require prior agreement between the Government, which will assess whether in another Member State the same control as we have in Slovenia. It is clearly stated that the restrictions on the advertising of bank services apply not only to all banks and savings banks established in Slovenia but also to the advertising of the services of the bank's branch in a third country. The amendment makes it clear that Banka Slovenije separately manages the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the Bank Resolution Fund. We know that trust in the banking system has been reversed in the past. Today, the European Union as a whole is working to improve the legislative framework to the extent that the banks themselves are the ones who have to take care of the reserves, instead of providing these funds to the Member States if the bank is in trouble. Lack of confidence in the financial system can lead to an attack on banks and massive deposits, which quickly leads to the threat of liquidity and the potential insolvency of not only one but all banks in the system. In the SAB Group, we will support the novelty as it strengthens investor protection and their confidence in the banking system, which is extremely important for its stability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The business models of most banks are designed to lend money in the form of deposits to other customers and to retain only a small part that is available to those who want to raise money. We are talking about the roles of households, businesses, countries, non-bank financial institutions and so on. In order to ensure the security of most of such deposits, even if the bank fails, the banks are investing in a special insurance fund called the Deposit Guarantee Scheme. This is an important institute for maintaining confidence in the banking system. The European Deposit Guarantee Schemes are still organised at country level and minimum standards have been agreed at the level of the European Union as a whole. Under the rules of the European Union, with these schemes, each holder has 100 000 euros in deposits. The proposal for a new law is prepared with the aim of remedying the shortcomings encountered in 2016 in the transposition of the European directive from this area into our legal order. The deposit guarantee system will also be recognised as a deposit guarantee system resulting from the merger of the current system with one or more such systems established in other Member States of the European Union and complying with the conditions laid down in the Directive or resulting from the establishment of a cross-border deposit guarantee system, which would also be members of banks and savings banks, which would otherwise be mandatory members of the national deposit guarantee system. The proposal to merge or establish a cross-border system will be submitted by the Bank of Slovenia with the prior agreement of the Government. The restrictions on the advertising of bank services, in particular those related to the deposit guarantee, will apply to all banks and savings facilities in the Republic of Slovenia that are members of this system established under the law, but not only to advertising services of the bank's branch in a third country. The current law only regulates the transfer of the bank's contributions paid to the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the event that the bank is transformed so that it ceases to be a member of the Deposit Guarantee Scheme and is incorporated into the Deposit Guarantee Scheme of another Member State of the European Union. The proposed supplement arranges for the transfer of these contributions when the bank transfers the management of part of its services to other Member States of the European Union. In this case, only a proportionate part of the contributions paid to the fund shall be transferred to the other deposit guarantee scheme, according to the amount of the deposits transferred. Banka Slovenije is the manager of the assets of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, together with other assets held either by ownership or management, with a separate bookkeeping record for the assets and liabilities of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The target value of the Fund shall be eight-tenths of a percentage of the value of all guaranteed deposits and shall be reached by July 2024. Currently, EUR 122 million is in line with the guarantee, and the target is EUR 180 million. Most importantly, the funds from this fund have not yet been used, because there was no need to do so. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Deposit Guarantee System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A nice greeting to all present, especially the government representatives! As far as saving is concerned, we Slovenians are always conservative. We have the most money saved right on banks, which is not an investment, and in the substantive sense it is not a savings at all. In 2021, Slovenian households had €23.8 billion in banks, which is 10% more than one year ago. Of course, it is necessary to provide or adequately protect this property, which is the purpose of the Law on the Deposit Guarantee System. The problem is not at the amount of EUR 100,000, but at the level of who are members of the deposit guarantee system – these are all banks. Trust in such a system has fallen among people in the past in the light of events related to Probank and Factor Bank. The investor’s confidence — in this case, these are uneducated consumers — in the banking system is very important for maintaining financial stability in the national economy. The deposit guarantee system has such a positive impact on savings and thus on the potential of banks to lend, including to the economy. The amount of the margin for individual investor’s deposits in one bank is limited to EUR 100 000. According to Banka Slovenije, banks and savings banks have so far invested EUR 122.4 million in the Deposit Guarantee Fund, with a target value of 180 million. The funds of this fund, as we have already identified from previous positions, have not yet been used. If the Fund’s assets were not sufficient to pay the deposit guarantee, additional funds shall be provided by banks and savings banks. The draft law further allows Banka Slovenije to manage and actively manage the Bank of Slovenia, in addition to the deposit guarantee fund. The proposed solution whereby the national deposit guarantee system can be combined with one or more other national deposit guarantee schemes of the Member States of the European Union or the establishment of a cross-border deposit guarantee system can be critical as European countries are very different financially stable. Even before that time, it was entirely impossible for the state to go bankrupt, and this happened in Greece. This is about the fact that Slovenia has transferred part of its powers to a supra-national level through its integration into the European Union. This has also been the case with regard to the banking sector, as all decisions are currently being taken exclusively in Frankfurt. With this, we gave up domestic control over the state of the banks. By means of the proposed definition, it is possible to move domestically raised capital abroad, which interferes with the financial sovereignty of the domestic capital market. The question is whether such a merger would help Greece or Cyprus or help France. Finally, I ask myself, or the question is, where is the money we lent to Greece when it was just before the collapse? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on public scholarship, development, disability and subsistence in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 22 Members and Members with first-signed Miho Kordiš. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Micha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u66	President, thank you for your word. With today’s marriage initiative, we want to help single - parent families, and their children do not have a paid allowance. The current situation is that these children are not being assisted, but the system is intended to divert them away from their compensation for unpaid subsistence, to which they would be entitled in a country that the social state itself calls itself. In parallel with this initiative, we have received in Levica more than 50 stories of different single mothers who have entered the path of seeking their compensation for unpaid maintenance. I'll read you one of them. She says: “I am the mother of two children. I've done everything in my life by the book, by education, by the job, I have a long-term regular job, by paying the bills, by the end of the day, but at the end of the day, I feel like the system has left me hanging. The father of the child exists, visits the child, but he doesn't want to contribute to the maintenance if he wants to give me money, but he would leave something there at his discretion. There's already a problem in basic perception. That's the money for the baby. I never understood this world, how it is possible that one parent does not want to contribute to the maintenance of a child who is also his. When you enter these battles, then you meet people who have gone through similar things, and at the end of each day, living for a child is the only comfort — that you are not alone in this story, are mothers with similar experiences. Why can't the system protect us and help us? Of course there's a way. That's how I did it myself. You hire a lawyer who's expensive as a saffron, you buy every euro on your birthday when you get a donation as a gift, the procedures drag on for years, and the kids grow up and you have to live. And it hasn't finished yet." This story thickens very nicely what is wrong with our system in the area of nutrition and compensation for children who have lost their livelihoods. To start with: we have only one fifth of children in single families living below the poverty risk threshold, and those who have lost their livelihood have found themselves in such a difficult situation. If single mothers wish to exercise the right to compensation for unpaid subsistence, which they do, they must enter a long and exhausting legal path of proof in order to obtain such compensation for unpaid subsistence at all. In this long-standing and painful trial, they must face a former partner who has also been violent many times. Practically all the evidence has to be provided by itself, and they have to turn into real private investigators. And single families, who are already so difficult to walk through life, must then face and cope with various psychological pressures, including threats. The answer to this unseen situation in Levica is that we place a public welfare fund between a dependant and a child in a single family. According to the new legislation, single mothers and children who have been deprived of their subsistence will only need to be shown in the maintenance fund to prove that the maintenance was not paid and then the fund will take action and immediately ensure that they are able to exercise their right to compensation for maintenance. Such families, who have been deprived of their livelihood, have been cheated twice on top of everything. Not only does the maintenance not receive and therefore in the household there is a loss of income for the child, social work centres which deal with their requests for financial social assistance and other rights from public funds, but until the judicial path is completed, they pretend to receive such a family of income from maintenance in fact, and from this title they receive lower social assistance and the cleavage of other public funds rights. All of this I think that we can conclude at today's meeting with a change, our current initiative that single mothers and their children can turn directly to the public welfare fund without lengthy and excruciating judicial proceedings and that the country will face them as enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution – as a social state to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance, submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš. On the proposal of the Group of Members and Members, the National Assembly has held a general debate on the draft law and has decided that the draft law is appropriate for further consideration. The representative of the proposer presented the draft law at the outset, followed by an opinion presented by a representative of the Government. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the opinion of the ZPS and stressed that the right to compensation for maintenance is a subsidiary right ensuring the social security of children in cases where the dependents do not pay maintenance for them, which is an expression of the constitutional right to social security set out in Articles 50 and 56 of the Constitution. With regard to the amendments tabled, she said that, in terms of their competences, they had no comments other than Article 4 and the expiry of their validity, but pointed out the proposed amendment to the bill proposing that they replace the expiry of the law by the expiry of application, which resolved their comment. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee, and supported the proposed amendment. While the Commission supports the proposal, it notes that the comments made by the Government in the work which indicate possible complications in the implementation of the proposed legal provisions, in particular as regards the need to provide the appropriate legal basis for the fund and the inclusion of the maintenance debtor as parties to the procedure, are valid. In doing so, the Commission is of the opinion that the basic objective of the bill is to accelerate the maintenance payment procedure regardless of how it is implemented. This was followed by a debate between Members and Members. In the debate, all the members of the draft law announced their support. The amendment provides for the legal right of children to indemnity of maintenance, simplification and speed of procedures for obtaining maintenance compensation, increasing the social security of families and ensuring the rights of children and the duty of parents in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. All the discussers agreed that it was necessary to simplify the process of obtaining maintenance compensation in order to protect the most vulnerable groups. Single - parent families are also most at risk in this severe health crisis. As many as one fifth live below the poverty risk threshold, it is important that they also face the risk of poverty. With a novelty, the beneficiaries are given more effective access to maintenance benefits. However, children who do not receive maintenance are allowed compensation without unpleasant and long-term judicial proceedings. The coalition parliamentary groups have submitted a supplement inviting the maintenance debtor to clarify why the maintenance is not being paid, which the committee has also adopted. On the basis of a comment by the Legal and Legislative Service, which warned that the proposed suspension of the application of this Act would be replaced by a late application, the Committee adopted its amendment. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and unanimously adopted them. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The government's opinion will be presented by the mag. Cveto Uršič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill's proposal undoubtedly seeks to simplify the process of obtaining a maintenance allowance, which is undoubtedly in the interests of the child, also for the benefit of the parent who is caring for the child. Regrettably, however, the applicants have overlooked that if no enforcement procedure is necessary, then an administrative procedure must be carried out within the Fund, which can substantially change and extend the procedure compared to the current, applicable arrangements. The Committee, as has already been presented, has adopted amendments supplementing this proposal of the proposer and thus ensuring that the fundamental purpose of the proposal has been achieved by introducing this amendment to the law. This is government support. We also support the proposal to start applying the amendment on 1 September, which will give the Fund time to prepare adequately for a change of regime. If I say so again. The adoption of the amendments to the Act will therefore reduce time and facilitate the exercise of the right to compensation for maintenance, following the principle of the greatest benefit of children, while at the same time creating an additional burden on mothers or fathers or legal representatives of children in the exercise of the right to payment of maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 27th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the law on missions under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 31 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubović. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Branet Golubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The law that we have tabled and is before us today has one basic purpose, and that is to simplify procedures. Simplification of procedures both on the side of the National Assembly and on the side of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which also agrees with this law. It is, however, that the National Assembly itself will be able to obtain information on whether or not certain Members may retire after the end of the term of office. So far, Members have had to attach this documentation on their own. The second purpose is to slow down the second law allowing the reintroduction of a double mandate, namely that the mayor may be the mayor and the MP. What is in conflict with Article 82 of the Constitution, which states that Members are representatives of all people, is that we represent the interests of all people, both those who have elected us, or those who have not or have not come to the elections or have no opportunity. The mayor, however, is a representative of the interests of his local community and there may be a conflict. I believe we will support this marriage today, and I thank you all in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivan Hrsak to present the report to the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Commission's mandate-holder is at the 38th session of the 18th session. 1. 2022 examined the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Members, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubović. The representative of the motions presented an additional explanation in the introduction, in which he stated that the draft law simplifies the work of the Mandate-voluntary Commission in deciding on the Member's entitlement to compensation after the end of the term of office. The draft law establishes a direct legal basis that will enable the Mandate-Electorial Commission to obtain data from the databases of the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance regarding the fulfilment of the conditions for the retirement of a Member. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and has drawn up a written opinion. Her representative said that the Legislative and Legal Service had no comments on the content of the draft law and that the proposed amendment fully took into account the notification concerning the nomotechnical regularity of the bill. The Commission also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of State, which supported the proposal of the law, and a letter from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, which agreed with the proposed legislative amendment. Without discussion, the mandate-holder commission adopted the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD and SAB to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission voted on and adopted all articles of the bill. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The solution contained in the bill was proposed by the Sections of the National Assembly a few years ago and included amendments to the 2019 Act. Since the latter did not receive sufficient support, but contained quite a few meaningful and indisputable solutions, in the LMŠ we decided to re-propose at least this amendment of the law which helps debarcation of procedures in the National Assembly. The mandate-holder commission will now be able to obtain from the Pension and Disability Insurance Office the information it needs to decide on the Member's entitlement to compensation after the end of the term of office, which will facilitate and speed up the procedures. However, I would like to point out that we are not in any way interfering with the substantive arrangements for receiving compensation, but we are simply proposing a technical solution concerning access to data, which the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance itself agrees with. We will, of course, support the proposal of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats should be presented by Joseph Horvat. There's no MP. I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a decision on the choice of the audit company for the audit of the accounts statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. A further explanation of the proposal for a decision will be given by Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you again very much, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the working body of the National Assembly responsible for the supervision of the budget and other public finances shall also be competent to propose to the State Chamber the adoption of a decision on which audit firm will revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 21st session, on 10 September 2021, the Commission adopted a decision calling on the Secretary-General of the General Assembly to carry out all the necessary procedures under the Public Procurement Act to select an audit firm which would carry out an audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2020 in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 31 of the Court of Auditors Act. On 18 November 2021, the Secretary-General sent a letter to the Commission sending two tenders for the follow-up procedure, which arrived at the invitation to tender for the award of the contract. In accordance with the provisions of the offer documentation, the selection criterion is the lowest offer price in VAT euros. It follows from the minutes of the tenders received that the most favourable offer of GM audit, d. o. o., Ulica Gradnikove brigade 4, 1000 Ljubljana. Therefore, at its 24th regular meeting on 10 December 2021, the Commission decided to propose to the National Assembly that the Court of Auditors should select that audit company to revise its financial statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is the report of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the detection of abuses in the case of France Kangler and Others. The report was submitted by the Commission of Inquiry for consideration in the case of Franc Kangler and Others. The report is public and will be considered by the assembly at a public meeting. The constituent parts of the report shall also be an additional report, in accordance with Article 104(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and Article 17 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, marked by the degree of confidentiality of ‘Data protection, protection of personal data’, the essential findings of the supplementary report and the draft conclusions contained in the supplementary report. In view of the above, the assembly, pursuant to Article 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure, will consider those documents at a meeting closed to the public today, 30 minutes after the adjournment of this item in the public part of the meeting. I would ask all the discussers not to mention in the public debate the information contained in the supplementary report, the essential findings contained in the supplementary report and the proposals for the conclusions contained in the additional report. We are moving on to a debate on the report, the key findings and on the proposals for conclusions and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, the proposals for conclusions to be made in the public part of the meeting. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to the President of the Investigative Commission of Magi. Diane Kaloha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u80	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, the esteemed Slovenian public. The Parliamentary Commission on the detection of abuses in the case of Franz Kangler and others has thoroughly investigated all the facts and circumstances that suggest possible procedural infringements both in pre-trial and criminal proceedings against France Kangler and others. The Commission of Inquiry also identified the existence of circumstances that suggest the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and execution of the political and criminal prosecution of France Kangler and others. One of the objectives of the parliamentary investigation was also to establish the appropriateness of the mechanisms for monitoring police records and records and the appropriateness of the applicable legislation governing the management of personal data in police records. Let me begin by stressing that since the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry, that is, from 18 October 2019, that Commission has received multiple interventions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of a decision to suspend it or with final decisions which have ultimately limited the work of the Commission of Inquiry and left the public feeling that the Commission has exceeded its constitutional and legislative frameworks. This was not the case, of course, since the Commission of Inquiry in the Franc Kangler case and others failed to assess the correctness of the specific judicial decisions and determine the responsibilities of the judges for decisions in the specific judicial proceedings and not in the specific prosecutorial decisions and their responsibility for taking their decisions. With regard to the above-mentioned decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we have indicated in the report of the Commission of Inquiry that the parliamentary inquiry in question has been carried out from the outset within the limits of the constitutional competence of the National Assembly and also the powers of the commission of inquiry itself. Notwithstanding the fact that all decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia which directly or indirectly regulate the extent of the exercise of the powers of the Commission of Inquiry have been duly taken into account, there remains some suffering of the taste that neither the judiciary nor the prosecution are capable of dealing with problems or alleged abuses within their own systems. In view of the purpose of the parliamentary investigation as a means by which the National Assembly exercises one of the functions of wider social control, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are paradoxical, since they de facto exclude one of the branches of authority from the mutual system of brakes and balances resulting from Article 3 of the Constitution, that is, of course, the principle of the division of power. Double Dr. Klemen Jaklič, Constitutional Judge, was in his separate dismissive opinion in the U-I-246/19 case, when the Constitutional Court decided that even the suspicion of deliberate violations or abuses of a judicial function within the framework of the parliamentary investigation institution was not admissible, stated that parliamentary control of intentional systemic abuses within the framework of the judicial service was not only permissible, but was necessary and even frequent. The basics of the constitutional profession already speak of the mutual control and balance between the branches of government and the necessity of transferring these principles into our still transition environment. Besides, he's a d.D. Strongly, he stressed that the documents made it clear that the Commission had not been set up to call the judges to account for their opinion, which would of course be unacceptable, but to investigate the suspicions of unlawful abuse, which is essential. By banning the latter, they would abolish “nothing less than one of the preconditions for the operation of a free democratic society”. That's right. Jacquasse. In this place, I thank the members of the investigative commission, who unanimously endorsed this report at the meeting of the Commission last December, for their contribution to the normal functioning of a free democratic society. On the other hand, I am saddened that the work of this important commission of inquiry has not been joined by a party from the so-called KUL opposition, which are, however, worthy of the mouth of the rule of law. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as the highest instance of the ordinary court, ruled that the courts of Maribor did not provide France Kangler with an impartial and fair trial and, of course, assigned the cases to other courts. Nor did the Maribor courts take into account the legal opinion of Dr. Cyril Ribičič and the arguments of Dr. Bosnjak's lawyer in court proceedings. This counsel is today a judge in the European Court of Human Rights. Notwithstanding the fact that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has stated in the framework of an insurrection or judgement of a particular case, it will be in the eyes – this is certainly in the domain of public interest, which goes beyond the specific case of Kangler – that, despite the obviousness of certain cases, even under such a decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, not all actors of the case in question, not the judges of the Supreme Court and not the lower courts, who have received the cases in a re-examination and/or have been informed of this decision, have not reacted as expected from the representatives of the third branch of power. So at least with minimum due diligence, or at least by withdrawing the case from the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. On the basis of the testimony of the witnesses and documents obtained during the work of the investigative commission, the Commission has in no doubt found that the prosecution of 24 criminal cases against Franz Kangler was highly likely politically motivated and as a result of the fact that Maribor had received the right mayor in 2006. Many criminal charges by police officers from the Maribor Police Department and their subsequent non-critical proceedings in the Maribor Prosecutor's Office, as well as all possible judicial acrobatics, how Kangler should not be provided with an impartial and fair trial, all of this in the background gives a sense of some great political motivation or involvement in criminal matters in which Kangler's right-wing policy has been brought. But we're going to this Maribor police and prosecution suit in a row. The facts in the file of the Commission of Inquiry show the following. Already in the opinion of the expert in the Court of Justice, Mr Srečko Pušnik, of 25. 8. 2011 is the suspicion of non-transparent police action in the early stage of information collection. According to his assessment, the police themselves wrote an anonymous criminal complaint or it was done by a person who in some way became aware of the contents of the official police notes. In other words, the police are supposed to be writing criminal charges against Kangler themselves, which is of course extremely disturbing. The data on which the police relied on their official signatures and which were the basis for the conduct of further proceedings against the then mayor of Kangler were obtained from anonymous and unverified sources, and to a certain extent represent even a guess as to the future events to take place, which is an entirely unprofessional police action. It is suspected that attempts to criminalise the mayor of Kangler have also been made in the review of other official marks of the Maribor police officers, who have, as a matter of fact, made particular reference to anonymous and unverified sources, as has already been said, to guess on the future events that are to take place, and to certain inconsistencies between the official notices. All this, Your Honor, points to the work of police officers, if not to a large extent of the likelihood of Kangler’s discreditment, but which is already at the limit of the crime of abuse of official office or official rights and of undeclared work at work. The report thus points out that zero tolerance for such police behaviour or the need to sharpen the criminal and disciplinary responsibility of police officers must be established under the urgent need to ensure that similar cases do not occur in the future. The proceedings of the court and the police in the issuing of an order under Article 149.b of the CAP in the implementation of the covert investigation measures were also dealt with by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 15 July 2019 from the Ombudsman, the Commission considered the following: if the written documentation does not show who issued the individual order and became aware of the contents of the file, there may be a violation of the right to an impartial trial. It was also a problem of correcting the orders already issued. The Commission of Inquiry in the report summarises and fully affirms the findings of the Ombudsman that a new order may be made to correct the order in the case in question for undue interference with privacy referred to in Article 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as a new order has been issued by amending the order, and therefore a proposal from the justified prosecutor should be made to issue such an order and the judge who issued the order should sign it. The Commission further concluded that in the present case, the treatment of the data obtained was also contested, even in relation to the wrong telephone number mentioned in the original order of 5. 12. 2008 According to the Ombudsman, after finding that it was a misinformation, the police returned the CD to the operator. It's a mistake again. Such police conduct was contrary to Article 154 of the CAP, which provides that the data obtained by applying the measures referred to in Article 149.b of the CAP shall be kept by the court as long as the criminal file is kept or destroyed under the second paragraph of that Article. If the matter is legally abstract, as we have also done in the report, that is to say, in the light of the constitutional powers of control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the powers of the Commission of Inquiry referred to in Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 2 of the Law on the National Assembly and Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, it certainly calls for binding amendments to at least the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office to be exceeded by the Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the police. The Investigative Commission points out that it does not prejudge whether the case is to hold back legal judgment and whether the acts have been committed in the sense of criminal liability, but it certainly highlights the significant fact that none of the actors, in spite of the “corrections” found by the Court of Justice, has made an appropriate statement to the competent authorities and could, in the opinion of the Investigative Commission, even give it to the competent authorities. We also note in the report that the investigating judge J. Z., on a proposal from the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor, has decided six times on the appointment or extension of covert investigation measures against Frank Kangler, without any other investigative judge deciding on the appointment or extension of these measures. By means of such covert investigative measures, the prosecution then came forward with these key evidences against Frank Kangler. The Commission of Inquiry has thus noted that there is a possibility that in certain cases the police will wait until the investigating judge, who is more favoured by the police in issuing an order, is on duty. There were also irregularities, or even police practice, that she copied the hearings without the relevant order of the investigating judge. In the course of the hearings, the Commission of Inquiry also identified the possibility of leaking information and the possibility of misuse in gathering information and the possible connection between police and journalists. In Kangler's case, the report further states that the police kept the transcripts of the hearings and notes together with a copy of the criminal complaint, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 135(1) of the CAP. Therefore, the need for mandatory amendments to at least the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, as well as the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, to also go beyond this domestic police activity again and to prevent the possibility of police abuse in the future in obtaining orders to carry out covert investigation measures, disputed handling of data or data transcripts, and, last but not least, evasion and abuse in the collection of information by the police. In any event, the facts found point to the so-called lex imperfecta, which, as a result, means that it is likely to be necessary to go in the light of changes in the legislation which penalise those responsible for storing data without a legal basis. The current arrangement is no longer appropriate. In the relevant parliamentary investigation procedure, it was also found that the judge of the District Court in Maribor, J. Z., who issued several orders to carry out covert investigative measures against Frank Kangler, was a civil security officer in the past and a deputy director of the Owa, and, at the time, Frank Kangler was a Member of the National Assembly as a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, was directly supervised by J. J. Z., and several times came into direct conflict with him. Professor Ciril Ribičič, in his constitutional opinion, pointed out that in this case there was definitely a violation of the principle of independence and impartiality of the trial, since the investigating judge J. Z. did not exclude himself from the case. Dr. Cyril Ribičič also notes that this is a grave and conscious violation of the right of Frantz Kangler to an independent and impartial judge, without whom we cannot even talk about a fair trial, let alone a fair trial. It also calls for the necessary legislative changes, in the direction of the principle of the so-called random judge, and not more of the principle of the natural judge, which constitutes the case-law following the day-to-day submission of the initial procedural act, to take account of the alphabetical order of the initial names of the judges. During the parliamentary investigation, it was found that it took several years for the proceedings against France Kangler to come to the Supreme Court, which either annulled the decisions of the lower courts and returned to re-judgment or transferred jurisdiction to other courts. As regards the conclusion on police records and the handling of personal data, we have also concluded, within our supervisory powers, that consideration should be given to restricting access to individual records or personal data of individuals where such access is not necessarily necessary to carry out police work, i.e. the Law on Police Responsibilities and Powers, and not least to amending the provisions of the Criminal Code in cases of qualified offences where the perpetrator is an official person. Dear colleagues, in the end, I should like to ask you to support the important conclusions of this report and also to support the vote on the conclusions themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! We have not cooperated with the Social Democrats in this investigation since it has been clear from the outset that the investigator relating to the specific decisions and conduct of state prosecutors and the determination of their responsibility is not in accordance with the Constitution. Similarly, the National Assembly should not obstruct or affect the decision of the Judges in specific proceedings by parliamentary inquiry. The Constitutional Court is so by decision of 7. 1. 2021 established non-constitutionality and repealed the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, since the law does not provide for judicial protection, a remedy or any other effective procedure to prevent parliamentary investigations which contravene the independence of judges. It found the same in its decision of 8. Seven. 2021 that the legislation does not provide for judicial protection to prevent parliamentary investigations which have an unconstitutional impact on the independence of state prosecutors. It also noted the non-constitutionality of the Act on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations in the case of Franc Kangler and the other in the case concerning the determination of the legality of the initiation and the conduct of prosecution in a specific case. From the very point of view of the commission of inquiry, it was obvious that the members of the National Assembly would assess the responsibility of the state prosecutor for initiating and conducting criminal proceedings against Frank Kangler. This is an unacceptable and unconstitutional intervention in the work of state prosecutors, which, as the Constitutional Court has stated in its decision, could have a profoundly dissuasive or dissuasive effect on state prosecutors in the way that persecution would be abandoned or abandoned in future and in similar cases, which would seriously endanger the functioning of the rule of law. And it is this sentence, the threat of the rule of law, that has clearly illustrated the functioning of this government since its term of office. It is not a week before this government intervenes in the work of independent institutions and threatens the functioning of the rule of law in our country – from politicisation of the police to attacks on the media, against civil society, to unacceptable pressure on prosecutors, to insult judges and so on. It is clear that constitutional institutions such as the rule of law, the division of power into judicial, executive and legislative bodies, the autonomy of state prosecutors, simply do not exist for this government. The prosecution and the judiciary have control, which is precisely laid down in the law, which is internal control, which checks the correctness of individual decisions of prosecutors and judges. The courts have an immediate trial and the Head of State Prosecutors, the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office have control over the work of individual prosecutors. The effect that an investigative committee of the National Assembly could have on the effective and impartial conduct of criminal prosecution would have on the decision of the State Prosecutor to prosecute a person who is even the holder of State authority is frightening. As frightening as the proposal for a criminal code that could leave a number of cases of robbery, murder and rape unexplored, we were fortunately able to stop it. Unfortunately, this coalition has gone so far as to threaten the safety of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia by proposing amendments to criminal law and investigators beyond their jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u84	Respected and respected! Thank you so much for saying that. And thank you, Madam, for taking good care that we have an orderly National Assembly and that we stick to all the measures that are due to covid-19. The introduction of the Parliamentary Inquiry Report of the Investigative Commission on the finding of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others also states that the parliamentary investigation pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a constitutional institution and then states: “The National Assembly may order an investigation into matters of public interest and must do so at the request of a third of the Members of the National Assembly or at the request of the State Council,” which has also happened in this case. This is where things are supposed to end. However, public matters cannot refer to the objections of a suspended political official to the judiciary, to the police, to politics and so on. At the same time, this individual has every opportunity to use all the remedies available to him to prove illegal conduct. It may also submit a statement of suspicion to the relevant inspection and control services. This is a range of options that the person concerned has, in this case Mr Franz Kangler, as well as everyone else in this country. In fact, the Commission, through its examination, exceeded the Constitution of a certain border and in this case unfairly discriminated against the individual and also allowed him to publicly express his opinions only through RTV Slovenia. Since matters of public interest to the citizen concerned are of public interest, it would be appropriate to set up a parliamentary commission for each of the children who has been violated the right to free childhood and education by the Government's reckless actions during the epidemic, or for illegal conduct in connection with the detention in the borders of the municipalities. In the final stage, then, every citizen should have the right to such an investigative commission as to deal only with his problem or at least his view of the problem. The political composition of the Commission, which, on the date of adoption of this report, consists of four members of the SDS Party and one member of the NSI Party, bears sufficient witness to the exclusive purpose of the establishment of this Commission, and this is an attempt to politically rehabilitate this well-defined current political officer. In view of the fact that the parties mentioned control even a variety of media channels and new ones grow like mushrooms in the rain, the content of this commission's treatment for there, not for the National Assembly. The Commission gives a message to the public – which the government has been doing for two years now – that there are privileged people who are not subject to the rules, and that there are provisions of general dignity. Apparently, already the famous Plato, the winner of the speech contest, liked to say that his victory did not mean that the truth was on his side, only that he was more capable of speaking. This house, the National Assembly, is supposed to be the catalyst that brings justice or general sense to it in a legally general form. The Constitutional Court, on the part of the Commission of Inquiry on the finding of abuse in the case of Franc Kangler and the second at the initiative of the Council of Justice, has partially delayed the implementation of that parliamentary commission of inquiry as early as October 2019. At that time, the Constitutional Judges also annulled part of the Law on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations in the case of Franc Kangler and others relating to the assessment of the correctness of specific judicial decisions and the determination of the responsibilities of judges for decisions in specific court proceedings. As has already been said, the request for an assessment of the constitutionality of restricted acts has been made by the Council of Justice, which has found that there is a legal void in them, since they do not provide a mechanism to prevent parliamentary investigations which have an unconstitutional impact on the independence of the judiciary and which give rise to unacceptable pressure on the work of judges. Thus, the Constitutional Court’s assessment of the act authorising a parliamentary inquiry concluded that it is inconsistent with the independence of the judges in the work relating to the correctness of decisions and the responsibility of the judges for decisions in the specific proceedings. It also found that the contraryness of the two acts and the National Council had it abolished within one year of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal and that, pending the abolition of the constitutionality, the Constitutional Court would have to take into account the principles of the division of power in order to assess the conformity of the act determining the parliamentary investigation with the constitutional independence of the judges. First, in 2021, the Constitutional Judges annulled that part of the Law on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations in the Franc Kangler case and others concerning the assessment of the correctness of specific judicial decisions and the determination of the responsibility of judges for decisions in specific court proceedings, and did the same in August 2021 in the case of state prosecutors or prosecutors. The Constitutional Court has explained to the National Assembly or the SDS and NSI parties that infringements of the most basic constitutional principles would be committed, led by the division of power, if Members and Members were to investigate specific cases and decisions of individual judges and judges. The parliamentary investigation of the specific prosecutors and their decisions is also not allowed, the Constitutional Judges and the Judges have found. It is true that the latter does not belong to a separate judicial branch of power, but to an executive but has a special, independent position on every occasion. Any other arrangement would mean that the prosecution does not work — that is, the prosecution or non-consecution of perpetrators of crimes — more in accordance with the law, but on the basis of the political will of the authorities. This would be wrong and the prosecution, as it were, would lose its meaning and meaning, and therefore the Member's investigation of the specific prosecutors and their decisions are not allowed, the Constitutional Judges and Judges say again. This does not mean, after writing to the Constitutional Court, that judges are inviolable in the exercise of their judicial function — what was also mentioned in the position — and their decisions are invariable. The decision of a judge in a particular court may be challenged in the ordinary and exceptional proceedings and in the constitutional appeal proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The judge may also be disciplinaryly responsible for infringements of judicial duty. In this national assembly, we are already used to the fact that the SDS party constantly exerts all its power to impose a bow of constitutional and constitutionality, too often to the end. In this case, too, she set up her bow and literally set up this commission of inquiry just before the shooting. This is very clear with all the above mentioned data and acts and decisions, the Constitutional Court has also pointed out. Therefore, the report will not be supported or voted against by the Left Group. We will also vote against all decisions because, as the Constitutional Court has already said, this investigative commission is currently not constitutionally operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. On 12 July 2019, Members and Members, on a proposal from the Council of State, ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, which was to take part in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against the former Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and a member of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, France Kangler and others, on the suspicion that the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code and the Law on the State Council were violated and the determination of alleged illegal management and the management of certain police records. The Investigative Commission has found that there are several indictees in relation to the proceedings against France Kangler, which suggest serious suspicions of the carefree and non-transparent conduct of the police. These stem from the fact that they are recorded in complaint 12. 3. 2008 and Official Gazette 15. 2. 2008 they imitate each other, tie up and chronologically follow each other, suggesting that the author of the complaint knew the contents of the official tag. From the information obtained and followed by the official marks, the Commission of Inquiry also concludes that the police did not handle the appropriate level of secrecy in obtaining and evaluating information in the initial proceedings against Franc Kangler. It appears that the processing of the data involved the likelihood of an organised discreditation of Mayor Franz Kangler. In addition, there are serious suspicions of the carefree and even unlawful conduct of the police with their personal data collected, since the orders of 15 December 2008 were carried out on the basis of a record of the wrong phone number and the police then returned the information to the operator instead of handing them over to the court. The data were thus obtained by mistake and such data was intended to be supplied to the court, which then took care of possible destruction. During the Commission’s investigation, there were also serious suspicions that there were or were police practices in place to await the issuance of the requested order at a time when the investigating judge, who favoured the police in issuing the order to some extent, was on duty. Given the large number of orders issued against the suspect, it is statistically impossible for the same investigating judge to issue them at all times. In Frank Kangler's cases, the judge in question was even waiting for the judge to return from leave to issue an order for investigation. Such practice is considered unacceptable by Professor Ciril Ribičič. For everyone should be assured that his rights and duties and charges against him should be decided without undue delay by an independent, impartial and law-based court, and only a judge elected by the rules predetermined by law and by a judicial order. Which judge will decide what, however, must never be manipulated. With regard to the findings of the Commission of Inquiry in its examination of the conduct of investigations against France Kangler, it would be appropriate to examine and, where appropriate, amend the procedural provisions which devise such acts. In the first place, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act relating to the conduct of the house investigation are specifically laid down on the presence of two full-year persons as witnesses. The law does not specify how the persons who will witness the house investigation are selected. Witnesses should provide certain guarantees that the house investigation is carried out in accordance with the law. In the case of the house investigation of Franz Kangler, the person accused as a witness was involved in two formal proceedings, which we consider to be controversial in terms of the role of ensuring the legality of the investigation, which the witness is to play in the proceedings. It was also pointed out that the suspect should have the right to reject a particular witness, which does not mean that he has the choice of a witness, but only the rejections. This should complement the scope of the appointment of witnesses in house investigations, since, according to current practice, the police choose a witness, which is already used to these procedures. In the case of Franz Kangler, however, it appears that the police chose a witness who was extremely dislikable to the suspect. There was also a violation of the entry into a foreign space and the conduct of a sightseeing of a police officer in a minority monastery on 27 December 2008. According to the findings of the Investigative Commission, a criminalist in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act should not have carried out such a examination without the order of the investigating judge and without informing the owner of the property. A criminalist who carried out an illegal inspection called for a visit to a minority monastery under Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which meant that the police must take the necessary action to track down the perpetrator of a crime, not to hide or escape, to protect traces of a criminal offence and objects likely to be evidence, and to gather all the notices that might have been relevant for the successful execution of the criminal procedure. We believe that such an interpretation is too extensive and that in this case the Criminal Procedure Act has been violated. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we agree with the report of the Commission of Inquiry, and we have also proposed to supplement the first and new third conclusions to the already proposed conclusions. All three will be supported unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the SAB party, we have already highlighted our three very serious concerns at the examination of the Parliamentary Investigations Act. The first point refers to the principle of the division of power as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution and under which the authority in the Republic of Slovenia is divided into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters. Each of these three branches of government must be independent and independent in its work – this is true, by the way, throughout the world, not only in Slovenia – and must not be subjected to any pressure. For a party to the SAB, such a parliamentary investigation did not constitute or constitute nothing more than a very violent breach of the legislative branch of power in the work of the judiciary and the prosecution. That is why we did not want to participate in such an investigation committee. It is unacceptable and contrary to the principle of legal certainty to interfere with decisions of the judiciary and law enforcement authorities which are taken in specific cases following certain pre-defined, highly regulated procedures. Judicial stakeholders must not be burdened in their work with illicit external influences, particularly in a problematic way, and this is a position throughout the world if these influences are by policy or by individual political parties and its officials. The Constitutional Court has also warned that the subject of a parliamentary inquiry must not interfere with the powers of the executive branch or with the jurisdiction of the judiciary. In this regard, it was pointed out that the subject matter of a decision in the National Assembly could not in any way be the legality and appropriateness of individual court decisions in proceedings. This legality and appropriateness can only be judged by the courts and therefore in our judicial system we have a hierarchy of courts and we know clearly what hierarchy these matters are based on. The second point that we have been alerting in the SAB since the beginning refers to the issue of political responsibility. How can the parliamentary commission, which is intended to do so, determine the political responsibility of the representatives of the judiciary or of the state prosecutors? But they're not political officials. Politically responsible for their actions can only be the holders of political functions, and neither the judges nor the state prosecutors nor the representatives of the police can be any part of this category. The third key question concerns the question whether the subject of a parliamentary inquiry is actually of public interest, is whether, in the end, tax assets are being spent on this matter, and this is a matter that is being dealt with in our country's highest legislative body. In our view, the SAB was more concerned with the investigation than with the pursuit of a specific private interest, but not with the pursuit of the interest of the wider community, which ultimately comes from the final findings of the Commission. Of course, I must point out that, even in our party, we are opposed to the so-called political persecution if they exist, in which a person feels that the procedure begins under the influence of public opinion and on the basis of insufficient evidence, and that after many years it turns out that there is no proper basis and that the person is innocent. If 20 or more proceedings against one person are thus concluded, this, of course, may give rise to different doubts and concerns to the general public, including concerns about the functioning of the rule of law. Therefore, the SAB understands the distress of an individual who has been in some proceedings for a very long time, and in the end it turns out that he is not guilty, and of course a large number of such procedures raise some suspicion. But these matters must be dealt with by the prosecution, the police, and at the end of the court. The fact that such a large number of proceedings against a person begin and also speaks for himself. In my debates, I have pointed out several times that the problem of long-term procedures and statutes in our criminal procedure is not what some people want to point out, some internal influence, some internal delay and so on, but that we have one of the highest standards for the elimination of evidence in the world. Nowhere in the world do they have such a high and so rigorous standard that evidence must be eliminated in criminal proceedings, and so many cases fall. As far as I'm concerned, even on television, there was something about Kangler. Because of all the concerns raised about the legality and constitutionality of the work of such a parliamentary investigation, we have already raised all these questions in the SAB Group when establishing this parliamentary inquiry and, of course, we have decided not to cooperate immediately in the investigation. That this decision was still quite correct, the Constitutional Court also confirmed last year when it repealed that part of the act setting out the parliamentary inquiry concerning the assessment of specific judgments and the determination of the responsibility of the judges for their decisions. Later, a similar decision was taken in the case of state prosecutors and prosecutions, so that there was, in fact, very little left of this investigation. In view of these findings, the Commission later acknowledged that it had adjusted the scope of the work somewhat. However, in the SAB, we still believe that, given that none of the opposition participated in this parliamentary commission and that the way in which this parliamentary inquiry was conducted, and also how this was carried out in practice, it would appear that it was only for the character and the name of Franz Kangler to be washed, while continuing to discredit the judiciary, the prosecution and so on, which is the practice of right-wing parties that we have been witnessing to her for a long time. Every possibility must be used to show that we have criminal justice in our country and that our legal system is not working. Where such actions by certain parties will lead us and what this means for the success and normal functioning of our country, everyone can answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. There's no colleague of mine. We're moving on. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Respectable everyone in the hall and in front of small screens! On 21 December 2021, the Commission of Inquiry on the Franc Kangler case and the second came to a conclusion, that is to say, until the adoption of the report and the additional report that we are considering today at the meeting of the National Assembly. By the end of this final session, the commission had held 17 regular meetings, 26 emergency meetings, heard 32 witnesses and held one meeting. It must be said that a special thanks is being given here, of course, to the Chairman of the Magi Commission. Dejan Kaloh, where most of the work was and also the weight of the work. On the other hand, it must also be said that the parties to the so-called left opposition did not wish to participate in the commission and that they even opposed it. Apparently, the bad conscience was too great to be done differently. On the basis of several witnesses' confessions, the Commission has in no doubt found that the prosecution in 24 criminal cases against Frank Kangler is highly likely to have been politically motivated. The abuses of authorities such as the police, the prosecution and the courts in Maribor were so extensive and continuous in the Kangler case that, as some witnesses have said, it is very likely that the persecution of a very successful right-wing policy in Maribor was coordinated and encouraged by someone from the state policy summit in connection with their local political opponents. This finding of the commission of inquiry also undoubtedly reinforces all subsequent decisions of the courts outside the area of the Supreme Court in Maribor, the Supreme Court, as well as, as indicated in the response of the Maribor District Attorney's Office, the rejection of 24 criminal charges against France Kangler, which were produced as a liquid tape by his former colleagues at the Maribor Police Department and other investigators. During the long wait for the correction of the injustices inflicted on him by Maribor police officers, law enforcement authorities and Maribor courts, in addition to the loss of the mayor's mandate as mayor of Maribor, the state councilman's mandate also lost his reputation and health. Who can give it back to him? Who can give him back all that pain? Nobody. No one, respectable. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that, as a result of the work of this investigator, many citizens will have greater legal certainty both in predictive proceedings and later in court. With the proposed amendments to criminal law, we will, if possible, tighten the possibility of abuse and thus save the citizens a long-standing cross-road across all possible Sudanese people to the final right. France Kangler's victim has been huge over the past decade, but in the light of the results of this commission of inquiry, what needs to be changed in order to improve the legal security of citizens in forecasting and criminal proceedings, at the same time beneficial. If the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the capacity of this Commission of Inquiry has been indirectly demonstrated, the need for legislative changes in several areas is justified and more than necessary. With regard to illegal access to police records and the handling of personal data, the Commission of Inquiry found that the views of Members' personal maps and ministers during the time of the government of Marjana Šarca have increased, mainly during the period of the formation of the current government of Janez Janša, as has also been reported by the witnesses Zdravko Počvalšek and Monika Gregorčič, indicating some concerted activity and abuse of police records in order to obtain some sensitive information to distort political competition. During the term of office of Interior Minister Boštjan Poklukar, a policeman who had illegally examined the personal records of the then Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac, was therefore also convicted. With regard to the existence of a possible network to be set up by the former Secretary of State for National Security, Damir Črnčec, in conjunction with his client chief, Marjan Šarc, the witness, Dr Vinko Gorenak, said that the level of likelihood of such an event was very high, which is particularly worrying. In this context, it will certainly be necessary to consider restricting access to individual records or personal data of individuals where such access is not necessarily necessary to carry out police work, precisely in order to prevent abuses in this sensitive area of the protection of personal data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will unanimously support both the essential findings of the report and the conclusions themselves and we are pleased that the Commission has reached the end of its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be debates between Members and Members on the report, on the main findings and on the proposals for conclusions and on the amendments of the SDS, NSI and on the proposals for conclusions. The amendments will be discussed on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 31 January 2022. I would like to inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members who have been invited to the debate is shown on the screens in the Chamber. However, the whole series of reported debaters is shown on the website of the National Assembly under the heading nominee list of discussers. During the course of the course, the order of the panellists shall be subject to change. I hope they publish the list. It will begin with the Red Bear, followed by Masha Kociper, Franz Breznik, Jura Ferrjan and Mag. Dean Kaloh. Comrade Rudy Bear, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. The rapporteur of the Commission’s investigation report regretted that only two parties participated in the investigation committee itself. I think instead of regret, I'd rather ask myself why. Of the nine parties in Parliament, only two parties, SDS and NSIs, felt the need to participate in this inquiry committee. So this regret is completely exaggerated because you have already been burdened by the Constitutional Court, twice. In LMŠ we were against the establishment of such an investigative commission and we also did not want to participate in it, because of course we were convinced that the main purpose of it was to deal with judges and prosecutors. This has been evident and this would certainly be the case if the Constitutional Court did not intervene in all of this and thus restrict the work of the Commission of Inquiry, at least in those parts where it would deal politically with judges and prosecutors. Nor did the Commission of Inquiry seek any political responsibility of any public official, at least that is not apparent from this report, but it simply concluded that the direct political responsibilities of any political official associated with Franc Kangler’s affairs are not likely to have been politically motivated. Well, that's the result of the Commission's investigation. What I regret about this report, however, is how incredibly bad the investigative commission has tried in the part where it wanted to prove political motivation, political conspiracy to look at the personal records of individual politicians, and how incredibly in-depth the investigative commission has found that Damir Črnčec is the creator of some spy networks. This is indeed the achievement of this commission of inquiry. I myself would like the Commission to take one example of these insights into the personal records of politicians, such as Monika Gregorčič, who was invited to the investigative committee, and to really investigate it from case to case. If there were 20 views into her records, each one to clear up once and for all with what's going on with those views. So Monica Gregorčič and Zdravko Rest found that these views were in a strange political time, no comparisons I have seen with these views in some other political times, whether they were really strange numbers or not unusual numbers. I don't think they're unusual. I think a lot of things, but I didn't go and check it out for myself. But that is exactly why I would expect the Commission to find out, on a case-by-case basis, what was going on, and in this way perhaps whether it was irregularities or just snorkeling. As was evident in the case of a police officer who was even punished for these views, it is not clear why he even looked. Nor did the Commission of Inquiry find this, but it concluded that it was clearly a political motivation. Then he conveniently finds this political motivation in Damir Črnčec and Marjan Šarc. They're talking about a possible spy network, that it was probably happening that there were some spy networks, I don't know what already, and that confirms Vinko Gorenak. They went so deeply to the investigative commission that they invited Vinko Gorenak and asked him if there were any spy networks, and he said, "Yes, they probably do exist." It's shallow, it's shallow. Without any further evidence, reinforcements are sufficient for Vinko Gorenak to find out that Damir Črnčec and Marjan Šarec have spied on political competitors. Apparently not only for political competitors, because they then state that the targets were probably also Monica Gregorčič and Zdravko Restoršek. So, too ambitious for an investigative committee, which, however, should be able to get more concrete evidence, but not just on the basis of opinions or political opinions of co-thinkers, it was likely that this was the case. In the LMŠ, as it is said, we did not participate in the work of the commission of inquiry because we were fully convinced of its purpose, i.e. to deal with judges and prosecutors, which in the end did not happen to the extent that you were expected by the founders of the commission of inquiry, because you were very limited by the Constitutional Court. But, of course, based on what we are now reading in the report, our decision not to take part in this was correct. In fact, it was based by the Constitutional Court on both decisions. By, of course, voting against the final conclusions of the Commission and also against the proposed decisions or amendments. Since this proposal to add a new third decision to the second decision, which states that the National Assembly calls on the Government, on the basis of the findings in the report and the additional report on the parliamentary inquiry carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, to order the supervision of the work of the police in the Kangler case, the next phase is that the National Assembly will now call on the Ministry of the Interior to deal with the police with these political controls.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Proposer. Here you go, mag. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u94	Chairman, thank you very much. Allow me to say something on this subject first, according to the positions put forward by the Members. Of course, I am saddened that the views of the members of the so-called KUL coalition show in the first place that they do not understand the principle of the division of power as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. They also ignored two important separate rejectative opinions by two constitutional judges, d.d. Jaklič and Constitutional Judge Šorli, on the point that such parliamentary investigations are, of course, necessary and necessary. I have already pointed out at the outset that in no case have we intervened in any open, concrete procedures, even less in any independence that comes after the stop both to the judges and to the prosecutors. So these introductory implants of yours really aren't in place and they're not right. However, I would now like to point out that, to some extent, the position of colleague Kociprova of the SAB, which has also made it possible to know several times in her work that the multitude of such procedures still sheds a strange light on the wider Slovenian judicial ecosystem as a whole, which is a correct assessment. The honourable Member also spoke of evidence. Allow me, there is not enough time in the introductory implementation, something on the subject that we have also found in the report that certain proposed evidence, such as a hearing of witnesses, has not been carried out. They simply did not take place in the courts of Maribor. This has definitely led to a violation of the right to defence. The witness is in public service, Mr Žnidaršič wrote, even drew attention to some – as he assessed – systemic problem of refusing evidence of defence in criminal proceedings, in particular in the courts of Maribor. The right of the accused person to be guaranteed the exercise of evidence in his behalf is, of course, one of the fundamental points of view, if you wish, among the fundamental guarantees of fair procedure, I refer to Article 29 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This should be guaranteed to all the accused in Slovenia. But see this detail that this defendant, Franz Kangler, as stated in the introductory explanation, was a successful right-wing politician from Maribor. As far as the conclusions are concerned. If you have read them, they are well written. In fact, the third conclusion was in terms of the amendment. Allow me, because we still have some time to discuss. I hope that you will also try to be constructive on this subject further. In the first decision: “The National Assembly shall order the Investigation Commission to identify abuses in the case of Franz Kangler and the other to submit the report and the additional report on the parliamentary investigation carried out to the National Investigation Office at the Ministry of Justice and the Special Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia together with the relevant evidence collected by the Commission of Inquiry as an application,” and shall “pay attention to the disclosure of suspected offences against unknown perpetrators: guilty prosecution under Article 283 of KZ-1, abuse of official position or official rights under Article 257 of KZ-1,” and added, “unfaithful work in the service of Article 258 of KZ-1 for unfounded prosecution and unwarranted criminal charges against France Kangler and others”. As far as the second decision is concerned, it is only in the domain of amendments, urgent legislative changes, as we have also mentioned in the explanation. Listen carefully because I think you must agree with this, however, given what it calls for after certain legislative changes. “The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the findings of the report and the additional report of the parliamentary inquiry to the competent ministries, to order the preparation of relevant amendments and to supplement the legislative and sub-legislative provisions relating to the findings of the parliamentary inquiry in the following areas: « Once again, in order to make it clear to the public, all these findings relate to flaws if you want holes in specific legislative areas, which result in the whole of this "chain", if I say in the notes, being infected with irregularities or possible illegalities. [[…]] Under the first indent: “Prevention of the possibility of the non-transparent action of the police and the possibility of possible police abuses in early stages of criminal proceedings in the conduct of investigations, house investigations, inspections and police conduct in relation to suspects and witnesses.” Next indent: “Prevention of the possibility of unwarranted and illegal access to police records and thus to personal data of individuals and sanctioning such conduct.” The following indent is added: “Optimisation of the provisions governing the house investigation, in particular the presence of two witnesses in the house investigation.” Thus, we propose finally the establishment of a so-called list of fellow witnesses. Next indent: “Abolishing systemic errors before the courts in the exercise of evidence and violations of defence rights in criminal proceedings.” Next indent: “Guarantee and urgently strengthen the principle of independence and impartiality in criminal proceedings.” And: “Other irregularities arising from the report and the additional report of the Commission of Inquiry and documentation or evidence supporting the report and the additional report.” If you do not agree with this decision, I think you also disagree that this thorny path must be saved to every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, not only to French Kangler. And it is these legislative amendments that address this issue, which has actually proved to be the case during the parliamentary investigation. And the third, added decision – which I think is completely in place and completely correct – which we have proposed in the SDS and New Slovenia. I'm asking you to listen. The third decision reads: “The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the findings in the report and the additional report on the parliamentary inquiry carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, to order, within its competence, the supervision of the police work in the case of France Kangler and others and to take the necessary measures to remedy the irregularities and prevent the repetition of these cases and to carry out an analysis of the case of France Kangler and others and of the results of the analysis of the familiarity with the leadership and the operational unit of the police.” Clear, transparent, right conclusions. So here I expected a little more constructive discussion, but it was completely lacking. Dear colleague Mr Medved, with whom we are also meeting on other working bodies, highlighted in particular the part where the Commission looked at police records and the handling of personal data of individuals. It is frightening to me that, in fact, in the mandate of their Minister, Boštjan Poklukar, one of the officers concerned, whom we then heard on the committee, examined certain people without any reservations, among whom, as a coincidence, was then Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec, seven days before the interpolation. Well, look, if anyone tells me these are coincidences, I'm really gonna cut my ears a little bit and close my eyes. However, this gentleman was also, in fact, convicted in court. In the following investigative commission, not only was this police officer, but we have actually addressed suspicious insights into police records, including between us Members and among current ministers. Member Monica Gregorčič and current Minister Zdravko Restoršek were also witnesses on our investigative committee. Those two have also come forward with these views, which will then be dealt with in more detail in the additional report, because it has a data protection code, so I cannot interpret them more extensively here. However, I can also say that Member of New Slovenia Jožef Horvat here at one of the meetings actually publicly pointed out that at the police from November 2019 to May 2020, about 20 times he looked into his personal folder without any apparent need to conduct police procedures. But as we say, more on this in the debate on the additional report. President, so far in my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much. In my debate, I would continue what has already been said in the position of our Group of Members, which, of course, also sums up my opinion on this matter, because I am the one who covers matters and so on. Once again, such an investigative commission, which is composed and working in this way, is not the right answer to open questions. The Constitutional Court then confirmed what we said in the opposition. This is a violation of the principle of power-sharing. Of course, the principle of the division of power means that individual branches of government are independent, but they are subject to the principle of checks and balances, but not in such a way that one branch of government interferes with specific legal procedures and wants to judge the work of judges and prosecutors. It is simply not the authority of the National Assembly and there is no such knowledge. I had previously listened to the New Slovenia Ambassador Tadejo Šuštar, who here said that she did not convince them in Novi Slovenija, and she quoted the crime and the testimony and so on. You think so, don't you? Not everyone can judge some evidence and judge some legal acts. For this, it takes some knowledge and some education and some practice, and it is in some system that you are chosen to have a function that is permitted by the Constitution and the law. Another thing that has already been mentioned — where is the political responsibility here? The Commission of Inquiry has found that there are no indications that any political responsibility has been given, it is said, that what is the essence of the Commission of Inquiry remains undetermined. And the third time. What is the public interest in the fact that the National Assembly and one commission dealt with the cases of Franz Kangler, one person? I remember quite a few people with whom we could also deal, such as Zoran Jankovic. Even in the proceedings for 12 years, I think that five procedures have already fallen, and it was found that everything was fine. If we would like to have a serious debate in this National Assembly about why we have so long-standing proceedings, why so many important particularly criminal proceedings are obsolete and why some procedures have been initiated, which then end in too many cases without conviction, we should talk, I do not know that on the basis of some analyses, some imaginary, several cases of different people, and we should talk about exactly what I said. Which is the reason why, whether it's in people or it's in the system or it's in the legislation that it's happening. And I have given you one reason – I have been very busy with this, and I am very troubled by this question – in my position. We have the highest, they say in the world, the evidentiary standard in the elimination of evidence. Throughout the world, most of the procedural criminal laws stipulate that this evidence is to be ruled out if it is judged and judged in the back. We have: the evidence obtained so, so, so, must be eliminated, dot. No judgment is allowed. And here was a case of a lot of evidence being eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you, too. The word is by Franz Breznik, preparing to be prepared by Jure Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I could say that in all these hearings, the hearings she had opened Pandora's box of work of Slovenian justice, which is also related to the work of the police and the work of the prosecution. So I think that the Commission of Inquiry has nevertheless indicated some extensions that are outside the scope of conduct in a serious democratic country and that in this work, in all proceedings against France Kangler, we have been able to determine in what way, by what methods, they wanted to literally destroy the mayor of the second largest city in the country at that time. Later, a person such as Franz Kangler was also taken up as a state councillor and completed part of his dirty business recently, when, after a court execution that failed, they also wanted media liquidation with the so-called Target 1 and Target 2, which people could look at. This is a horrendous image of Slovenian work, of Slovenian parastata, where former members of the SDV or Udba still operate, according to the local ones associated with their fellow students in the media, and where both the prosecution and part of the judiciary work. That's scary. According to my experience, when I dealt with former members of the SDV in the past, where they all worked, I could say that it is frightening that 30 years after independence, part of the Slovenian judiciary, also associated with the media, operates in this way. Now let's take a look at some of these things. In these hearings, it was very interesting, for example, to see the work of the then district attorney Nik Pušnik, who somehow opened up, who broke down because he did not withstand the pressures of this background, and on 14 April 2019 he personally informed KNOVS that he was under great pressure and stress in the Kangler case as well. Among other things, he wrote: “Or, if you want to be specific, to me as the prosecutor in the Kangler case has been carried out and pressure is being exerted with discarding methods. This is a disgrace to Slovenia, it is a disgrace to Slovenian justice and is a disgrace to the prosecution's organisation. There's only once enough and once the masks have to fall off their faces and it's a matter of saying bob beans. In this statement I insist, even though the intelligence and prosecution will send someone to Pohorje to physically silence me.” This was stated by District Attorney Niko Pušnik on 14 April 2019 in personal writing. I hope that at least some of you who deny this, who want to relativise these matters, have remembered these abnormal methods and also the pressures on those prosecutors who are acting in accordance with certain standards, in accordance with their professional requirements. Then you know what's coming after them. Such prosecutors or judges who work honestly, well, try to keep quiet, and as the Resurrection once said, passivize. Then it is very interesting from the transcript of the sound recording on 18 September 2018 of the District Court in Murska Sobota, under the presiding judge, the current and current judge, of course, still clearly and loudly admitted that he did not sign this order. This is a judge, mentioned several times by us, who was the most frequent, always an on-call man who signed all the wiretap orders completely, to trigger all methods and means, including listening to the then suspected French Kangler. On the question of France Kangler to this judge in court, “Is that your order or is not your order?” Franz Kangler shows him the order and the signature and asks him: “Who signed?” And this judge, namely Judge Žirovnik, answered: “I don’t know who signed this.” The judge himself later: “Mrs. Judge, I know that I have signed all the orders, this signature is not my signature, under this order.” The judge himself, who we have repeatedly appointed and interrogated, says that he did not sign himself under one of those orders, which was the basis for the prosecution of the then suspected Frank Kangler. Then proceed. Speaking of Prof. Dr. Cyril Ribičič, who was probably not exactly in some friendly or politically friendly relationship with Mr. Kangler, it is fair, with knowledge – one is an attitude of some political affiliation that has always belonged to him, which he advocated, and the other is his professional work. Even among our fellow lawyers, when we talk, they say that Dr. Cyril Ribičič as a lecturer on human rights and also as a human rights defender is relatively professional and tries to put his political affiliation aside so that he can say that he is acting in law. On the basis of the documentation, he wrote: “As an investigative judge at the Maribor District Court, Judge Žirovnik has ordered, on a proposal from the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor, six times, covert investigations against Frank Kangler. No other judge ordered covert investigations against Franc Kangler. It follows from the Court’s files that the applicant, in the case of the absence of a judge,” that is, this judge, “waited for his return without having been decided by another judge on the covert investigative measures.” So they were always waiting for the same judge. “With the help of covert investigative measures, the prosecution came to the key evidence against the accused of Frank Kangler. In addition, these evidence was the basis for obtaining other evidence. Under the second paragraph of Article 18 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the court may not refer a court decision to evidence obtained by violating constitutionally established human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as to evidence obtained on the basis of such inadmissible evidence.” Then Professor Ribičič continues his argument in this story. Somehow, however, he concluded that "it is therefore a grave and conscious violation of the right of Frantz Kangler to an independent and impartial judge, without whom we cannot speak of an honest, fair trial." This was written by Prof. Dr. Cyril Ribičič on 18 November 2015 in his constitutional opinion on the independence of judges and the interrogation of burdensome witnesses. Frightening, respected colleagues. Scary. The sequel is very interesting, from the District Court's legal decision in Murska Sobota. I'm not going to name and involve those judges on purpose. On the President of the Senate, the District Court is able to follow the following facts: "For all the circumstances described above, there is a reasonable doubt, according to the Court's assessment, of the impartiality of this judge," said the investigating judge, "in the issuance of orders and covert investigative measures in the case against Franc Kangler." Then the judge finds out, and so on, I don't explain. On the basis of the fact that the former judge was also a member of the State Security Service, and later of the Owls, knowing that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court have also found that it was a criminal organisation which, if I quote, "falsified, tapped, planted and even eliminated" the opposition's members at the full level, we conclude that it was a terrifying act, to detect some frightening acts and that it was not the last time for the mayor of the second largest city, namely, the budget. However, if we go to some political water, with a calculation of 120 million euros or more, then you know, what was the interest of the people to this mayor, who was relatively successful at that time, to remove him from this city. Let's keep going. That you could say the criminal measures that they allowed in the justice system – France Kangler had also taken away the mandate of a state councillor – so this is irreparable damage, we cannot fix it, France Kangler cannot put the court back. It is a democratic process and it cannot be put back after this injustice has been abolished as a state councilor, as it is not for the Member, the Minister and so on. Thus, he was wronged irreparably, and any conclusions or decisions made by the Council of State could also be disputed in this matter. Therefore, as a Member, I am in favour of the conclusions before you in the amended form and are following that “the Commission of Inquiry on the finding of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others should forward the Report and the Additional Report on Parliamentary Investigations to the National Investigation Office of the Ministry of the Interior and the Special Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia against unknown perpetrators”. This is how I support point 1 as well as point 2 of these conclusions as well as point 3. But I can say something like that for the conclusion. In some cases, the Commission of Inquiry has even demonstrated some of the methods used by the secret political police or the SDV, and that this matter was then continued, recently also in the Slovenian media area on national television. Imagine, in Tarča it never happened that after legal proceedings you would call into the studio of someone who was the victim of these proceedings, that the person was alone in the studio and that a complete team was working against him, who prepared some media attack on him as a final act, because the first was unsuccessful – judicial – that they wanted to kill him mediaically, that after some, again Udbovian methods, they had acquired some texts, tried to drug them – even in the Styrian language they were making a fool of us, Štajerec – and they were reading in the Styrian word. The man himself in the studio, surrounded as always by headphones, had a team in the back that told her what questions and how France Kanglers would be renegotiated. But the continuation of this Target is even more terrifying, and then it comes to this Target as a great finale – I will conclude with this – Mr Drago Kos, who is known for all the affairs that were possible, the instigation and operation of precisely these methods, which once had an Ascension; that is, falsification, eavesdropping, tampering, liquidation, the establishment of some para-organisations with which the other parties would like to prove some corrupt methods and so on. And he comes along and then the big question is, can a judge who once worked in a secret service, which I've already told you what the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court have said, say that there's no issue that he doesn't see any problems here. Former Udbovniks can be judges in Slovenia, according to Draga Kos, who belongs to this society! And this is the person, of course, that I will not continue, the person whose life partner is responsible editor of the information program POP TV, who has already taken over more than 4 euros from the cable network and thus arrived every year at at least 15, 20 million additional money with which he prepared the elections and so on. Not to spread these networks and somehow to end it with the Styrian successful mayor, who tried to destroy the judiciary, they failed to do so, and in recent days or weeks they are also trying to further mediate it with methods that colleagues of Kaloh and colleagues of the parliamentary commission of inquiry have identified; that is, falsifying, eavesdropping, instigating. Here it is possible that only the last method of the former regime, i.e. the liquidation of political opponents or opposition, may have been lacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you, too. The word is "Jura Ferrian." Get Anja Bah Žibert ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u100	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament and all those accompanying today's meeting and today's debate on the Investigative Commission's Report on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. We have a relatively large report ahead of us, which contains a number of issues relating both to the specific case, to specific issues as they extend or reveal a broader picture in this area and also offers certain starting points, both for discussion and for further proposals, and of course – which is the objective of both the Commission of Inquiry and, I believe, all of us – also improvements in the legislative field. Allow me, in my debate below, to touch on some of the key findings that emerge from the report ahead of us, and to summarise this somehow. As one of the important concluding observations of the investigative commission, I would point out that the investigative commission has found that there are several indictees concerning the proceedings against Frank Kangler, which indicate serious suspicions of the police's carefree and untransparent conduct. There are also serious suspicions of the carefree and even unlawful conduct of the police with their personal data collected. There were also serious suspicions that police practices existed or existed during the period under review, that in certain cases the order requested had to wait or wait until that investigating judge, who was more inclined to issue an order to some extent, was on duty. I can continue to believe that, in a particular case of a hearing by one of the witnesses, it was also found that the police kept the transcripts of the transcripts with a copy of the criminal complaint, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 153(1) of the Criminal Procedure Act, since the police should hand them over to the State Prosecutor. The Commission of Inquiry also notes from the report that there has been a serious suspicion of a violation of the provisions of the criminal procedure by the police. With regard to e-RISK surveys and personal data management, a high probability of unwarranted views on the personal data of individuals carried out by the police was identified before the Board of Inquiry. With regard to the findings on the conduct of investigations against France Kangler, the Commission concludes that it would make sense to rewind and, if necessary, to amend the procedural provisions drawing up these actions in this context. This is primarily the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act relating to the execution of the house investigation – we are talking here of Article 214 and then of the following – specific provisions on the presence of two full-year persons as witnesses, which is Article 216 of the Criminal Procedure Act. So briefly on this matter. However, I would like to point out further the very political responsibility of the holders of public functions, and in this case, the investigative commission has found or in the report itself, as a whole, that, on the basis of the statements of several witnesses, it is indisputable to conclude that the prosecution against France Kangler has been very likely to have been politically motivated. This finding of the investigative commission is, in fact, very unequivocal in all subsequent decisions of the courts outside the area of the Supreme Court in Maribor, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as in response from the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor dated 11. 11. 2019 – Thus, this finding, as we can see, is accompanied by the rejection of 24 criminal charges against France Kangler. As we can come from all of this, we can see that if I call it that, somehow, this saga has dragged or rolled for years and years. My opinion is that the right you've been waiting for unreasonablely long is no longer a right. One of the main objectives of the parliamentary inquiry in question is, in addition to these concrete findings which I have made and which, of course, can be read in more detail by all in the public part of the report, but, of course, on the basis of all of this, there are certain points of reference to how to achieve certain improvements. In particular, as regards the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. changes, improvements, additions that will in the future result in the case being carried out as it should, and that, of course, will not be on certain matters, certain findings will be required by the parliamentary commission of inquiry to identify irregularities; of course, if things are to go as they should. At this point, I would also like to point out that the parliamentary commission itself is a very important institute of modern parliaments and that it is certain that all the conclusions drawn up in this document, which we will not least decide today – and we have two or three new conclusions before us – can also have a significant impact on the future of concrete legislative solutions that will lead to the future of things to work as they should. So much for now. I am sure that this report will have its reach, has a weight with concrete conclusions, and that you will also be supported by Members and Members from those parliamentary groups that have not participated in this parliamentary inquiry or parliamentary commission on the basis of the facts of this report and the proposed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you, too. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Well, this saga of mounted processes against Franz Kangler is not as innocent and cannot be put under the carpet as the left political sex wants. The fact that they are not discussing today that only a few brief views have been expressed that the investigation committee has also been tried and taken away from it is of course not true. It was not the same, but it is true that most constitutional judges have decided that conscious violations or abuses of a judicial function are not allowed to be investigated in our institution of parliamentary inquiry. Nor is it possible or possible to deal with abuses in the National Assembly within the framework of an investigative commission; also on closed court cases, respected! Members should not talk about this either. But, you know, the constitutional judges who gave a completely contradictory opinion, a separate opinion and one of them was double Dr. Klemen Jaklič, who, in his separate opinion, made it clear that in democratic countries with parliamentary tradition and work, it is quite the opposite; however, there are desirable parliamentary investigations when it comes to intentional and systemic abuses within the judicial service. But, of course, we can't talk about judges in our own way, and we know that crows don't even turn their eyes off. I was not surprised by this opinion or by the fact that the Constitutional Judges gave such an opinion. But that doesn't mean there wasn't a saga of mounted processes against Frank Kangler. On the contrary! If everything were so clear and simple for our judges, we would allow such a parliamentary inquiry to clear things up to the end. In 24 cases, Your Honor, Franz Kangler had to go through Calvary. In the end, it was in his best interests, but the man had to go through all of this and then the colleague Masha Kociper, who I consider to be a real apprentice, also has an education in this area, today in his position to declare that it was an exclusive task or the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry to discredit the judiciary and the operas of the guilt of Franz Kangler. First, it must be said that the colleague obviously didn't even read the act, and secondly, how does she wash the guilt? Franz Kangler has been washed clean of guilt. In court! This is the court that my colleague always says works well. You know, from where we come from, from what country we've lived in, and from my personal belief, it's either the judicial branch of power or the judicial branch of power, that it's the most bypassed by the transition, of course, that's what's really going on in this country. What can happen to someone? Maybe just so long as we know where our justice system is based. In 1947, at a conference of the Ministry of Justice, the then assistant minister stated: “The courts must become a fighting authority.” The fighting authority of the area. Next: “We need to raise new people, a new frame that will, of course, have socialist thinking”. And what was going on? People who had already been judges with some tradition and knowledge traded for so-called Laika judges. So the judges became butchers, tailors, captains of JLA, then JA, and so on. From there comes our judicial system and the godfather of this system has built up the fate of students in Law School until recently. The people who have violated human rights are respected in our judicial system. The fact is that the so-called 1994 Colonel's amendment, which was truly difficult to accept, cannot be named as a permanent term for those judges who violated human rights in the previous system at all. Because he says the Council of Justice doesn't have this information and that they can't and that's not what they're looking at. So, there's no respect for legislation. Yes, all of this needs to be discussed and it must be said that when we talk about the commission of inquiry, respected, the first article is clear. “Parliamentary investigation in matters of public interest shall be carried out in order to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions” – and further, “to amend legislation in a particular field and for other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction.” It goes, Your Honor, also to the fact that the Commission of Inquiry has the possibility of finding that legislation is not good at a particular place, whether it is too weak, or whether it needs to be sharpened. And that's what this committee's come to! But I can see that no one really cares. I'll give you the case. In the case of a criminal investigation, respected, every citizen should have the opportunity to determine the witnesses who will be present at the time of the criminal investigation, so that the procedure is as it should be. And what happened in Kangler’s case — he had no chance of choosing a Witness! These were assigned to him. And you know who was among the witnesses — the person who was in charge of this procedure played tennis this afternoon! Or some other sport, I think it was tennis. Is that objective? Is that impartial? But nobody talks about it. It is said that the very important fact that we have reached on this investigative committee is that the witness system must be resolved: when does the state or the witness itself give the witness and, in the first place, the suspect has the opportunity to see this witness. That's why they're witnesses. And secondly, the commission of inquiry also dealt with so-called illegal insights into the directory of officials. And that's what's been going on. Please see, you can say anything, but not think of us as fools, when we tell you that, for example, colleague Monica Gregorčič had fifteen views, including at the time of the change of government. And some of these views, respected, took place at night in her private parking lot, in a locked garage, otherwise a public garage, but locked up! So you can only get into this garage by getting someone to open the door for you. Now, for God's sake - excuse me - tell me what a cop had to go to a private garage to see if there was a person's private car. And it is not true that this matter is what is being concluded – and so does colleague Rudy Medved – that we still have an open session on this subject at KNOVS, because we wanted to face when we called this meeting, including an information officer who looks at it very quickly and says that there is nothing, and because we wanted some answers. This session was not held because only then did she apologize, but neither did her deputy who was working in this area at the time. So this matter is not yet concluded. But she's scary. But you know that someone's looking into it, I'm sure it wasn't the cop who was looking at what the car was doing or where Monica Gregorčič's car was. [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're not that naive, nor are we stupid, not that any police officer would be interested in where is Ambassador Monica Gregorčič's car. But it must have been someone else's interest. In fact, we all know exactly what kind of pressure was going on at the then SMC party so as not to join the coalition. And I'm saying that's just one thing in a series of these things. And yes, it is also interesting that Minister Poklukar was the one who had all these insights and received all this information, even though he could have given up. He was already exposed to another police officer who was looking into the maps at the time, even at the time of Mr Erjavac's exchange. Oh, run, come on! The policeman was just interested in Mr. Erjavec! The most gossipy person is certainly Mr Erjavec. I guess if it were just gossip, you'd pick another person from some yellow officer. But let's just leave it. But not to think of us as fools that it's not that it's something completely normal and that nothing was going on here. It was happening! I think that the fact that the Commission of Inquiry really had to work a little bit harder, we did not go through what the court said, we took that into account, but the findings are important. They are also important in order to tighten the legislation. Thus, I have highlighted in this debate at least two areas; one is the so-called determination of witnesses when it comes to criminal investigations and the other when they look at maps. You know, because now this system looks into folders is very complicated in terms of when some people say some bells are ringing and so on. It doesn't matter if the bells ring. It could be the one who sees the bell ring, getting caught up in someone's surveillance. Thus, we certainly have a punctured system here as Swiss cheese, and the matter will need to be tightened up in the future, because, in fact, the Minister of the Interior can be the most informed person in terms of what citizens and citizens are doing. Even at night, apparently. And also those who have their cars in a private parking lot. For me, this is one of the highlights of what we have also processed on the committee. Also what he said if I finish here? Zdravko Restoršek, also about him. That is how I think that the Commission has indeed done important work not only for today but also for the future. Governments are changing, ministers are changing, and today, one another, today, and no one can look into such a map. That's my opinion, and I've always stood on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Dean Kaloh. Here you go. I'm sorry, it's Rudy Bear's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President. With regard to the debate of esteemed colleague Anja Bah Žibert, I would simply say that in this intense enthusiasm and desire for something to be written in the report, it does not say so, however, she saw it. Indeed, it is not true that then Minister Poklukar told the investigative committee that he was receiving reports on these insights into the records. Controversial views or indisputable ones, I don't know, I hope that we'll actually get to the KNOVS because the Commission isn't. The Commission of Inquiry found that these views were and thus the report ended. So certainly not, colleague Anja Bah Žibert, that anywhere in the report it would say that Minister Poklukar was receiving reports on these views and that he even admitted it to the committee himself. Of course, this was not reliable and I did not track it in the report either, but I must say that I have read it in detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u105	Proposer Dejan Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u106	Dear President, I must respond. It was probably said that this may have been some kind of lapsus, but then Interior Minister Boštjan Poklukar received the reports of the OKCs from the field and there they were, that's probably what colleague Bah Žibert thought, and there were actually personal data inside. He did, in fact, say this in the parliamentary investigation itself, even then he did not find it in any doubt that he was receiving it, although then the information officer decided that it was wrong. And then right when he was changing power, and then the interior minister was already Aleš Hojs, and he couldn't or didn't receive any more OCC reports with personal data. Just this intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Blaze Pavlin, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Today we are discussing the report of the Investigative Commission on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and the other, led by a colleague of mag. Dean Kaloh. The Commission established the National Assembly or ordered a parliamentary inquiry during the summer months of 2019. At the very beginning and at the establishment of this commission of inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry faced numerous indications of its existence or of the subject matter of the investigation itself. Also, the opposition colleagues, who were then members of the coalition, did not participate. Let me introductoryly say that for me personally and for New Slovenia, the independence of justice is a thing that politics or anyone else cannot interfere with. It is not possible to investigate or hold the judges responsible for their opinion, expressed in a particular case, and it is also unacceptable to call them to account for their judgment as they are. Something in this style, or in this sense, has been decided by the Constitutional Court. However, this raises the question of who can investigate possible abuses in justice. In my opinion, this is our responsibility to all those who participate or all branches of government in this country. Among them is the National Assembly, or we are Members, if such possible abuses occur in society and in the country. Finally, we are Members of the people on whose behalf the judges also judge. We are also the ones who, on the proposal of the Judicial Council, appoint judges, and it is our responsibility that our judicial system works for all people equally. The foundation of each democratic state is the division of power and, of course, the control between the individual branches of government. This is part of the so-called principle of the braking and balance system. And it is in this supervision that I understand this commission of inquiry between the various branches of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you, too. As the last interviewer reported, he's a mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u110	Chairman, thank you very much. I am, of course, debating as a Member, not as a drafter of the report. I listened attentively to the debate, though, on the other hand, the opposition side was more comfortable. I agree with my colleagues on our coalition side that they have in some way feared their duties, however, to admit that we are also responsible as a legislator for the debate on possible sites in the judicial mile. But I would like to tell you what I see as the biggest problem to reduce this verbal action of yours. This dilemma, whether to have an investigative commission on the subject of intentional and systematic abuses within the judicial service, is essentially false and malicious. I also know why: something after this political pay, but something because you simply do not look at some comparisons, comparative cases from the constitutional law of democratic countries, where such investigative commissions are a constant. Not too often, however, this is a practice in developed Western countries. If you have read the report, where we also quoted this separate rejection opinion ddr. Jaklič, several examples of the constitutional practice of other countries have been cited. I would like to enlighten you just two more times, because of our Slovenian public, it seems important that this parliamentary inquiry, regardless of its functioning within our constitutional parameters, our constitutional powers, is indeed necessary and necessary. In France, one case was so well known as the Constitutional Judge Jaklič. It was a so-called pedophile affair, and there the first-degree judge convicted that actor, and it was seven people out of 13 and later proved to be innocent. Make sure that someone marks you as a pedophile is a very serious rejection of charges, if you are not, and you are likely to be wronged and morally wronged for the rest of your life. And what happened? When they set up this parliamentary inquiry in France, they were just wondering what procedures, what mistakes there were in the process of assuming that someone could convict you of being a pedophile, even though you weren't. On this subject, they had a parliamentary inquiry in France, and then it was very public, but it was actually a debacle of French justice, that seven people were marked or not marked, judged to be pedophiles, but were not, had a debate in the French Parliament on this subject. Another example was that I was watching it on TV because the documentary was on this subject. Remember when this mob of these terrorists, the killers from the German underground scene, was walking around Germany for a while? So they killed foreigners, in short, people who came to Germany from elsewhere, and the general public was also concerned about what was happening and also had a parliamentary or investigative commission in Parliament. Neither did anyone then cut their ears, why it was discussed in the German Bundestag, seemed normal to everyone; of course, if such brutal killings occurred. They also conducted a parliamentary investigation into these cases and – whether they believed or not – the judge at the time, Götzl wrote, was called for a parliamentary hearing before he even finished his case in court. And no one has wondered now, but the German parliamentarians are now calling for the responsibility of the judge in this case. They thought it was normal. Still, somehow I'd refer to this justice system of ours. Last time we had one important debate in our National Assembly at the Committee on Justice, last Friday, also on the topic of legal judges in the Republic of Slovenia, and also adopted important conclusions which I hope will produce fruit in practice for the stakeholders to whom we have addressed this issue. I can assess that the Slovenian judicial system has indeed been rocking some affairs in recent years; also what has happened to me to say to the defendant France Kangler in this parliamentary investigation is in some way an affair. I am also pleased that at least with the SAB this has been acknowledged in some way that such an unreasonable number of these initiated procedures by the Maribor police, that then, in fact, all 24 cases dealt with in our report, that then, in the meantime, a person is identified as such or a different offender, it is said to be a truly frightening act. I think that also through this commission of inquiry in the Slovenian public further, even with the adoption of the essential findings and conclusions themselves, this rate, which is still very low at a low level, will be raised later on because of all these affairs that have taken place in recent years or even decades since our independence. Allow me just one quick review, because I think it's important because of the efforts of all the members of the commission. Today, two of them also had a very fruitful discussion, a colleague of Anja Bah Žibert and a colleague of Jura Ferrjan, because they really participated in the final mother content. As told by other colleagues from New Slovenia, I thank Tadeji Šuštar for his creative contribution to this final report. All those who have looked at this 136 pages long report are essential findings, you must admit, above all I refer to the opposition, I have carefully tried you, but your thesis that we have exceeded constitutional and legal frameworks does not actually hold. Dear colleagues, don't. We stayed within the ranks of our jurisdiction as well as the subject matter of the investigation. Let me point out once again that in the very judgment of the correctness of the specific judicial decisions, as well as of the specific prosecutorial decisions, we did not, in any single word, in one line, interfered with them in any way. In any case, as I said at the outset, at least I had such a bitter taste that, in all this loud defense, both judges and prosecutors, how would we now intervene with this investigative commission in their constitutional tasks and duties to intervene, of course, which is not true. I think it is mainly about weakening their own self-reflection, because, to my mind, if they are honest and honest, they realize that even in their own species there are mistakes and there are really any irregularities that are really possible, but they may already be based on some illegal behaviour. But, as a matter of fact, we didn't go into it, so even if you noticed, in the conclusions we've all announced the suspicions of the crimes we're referring to, and they're related to unknown perpetrators. It was a whole bunch of people, a whole bunch of criminals, prosecutors, judges, and we weren't actually called to do this to judge these behaviors on our own. The aim was to be different, in particular the objective being substantive. The aim was to propose legislative changes following the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. We have them in our conclusions – then I will point them out once again as a candidate for the public, where they will actually address these problems that we have identified in this report. As a result of this, all our citizens will also be, it is not just Frank Kangler. It was said from the opposition that we are protecting the character and work of France Kangler today. Look, this is simply not true, although I think it is a successful policy, even now in this role it has, it is called the successful Secretary of State at the MNZ. And logically, Maribor is relatively small, and we also know that if there was something on it, I would probably have led this parliamentary inquiry at the outset, but it happened literally by chance – thank God for Slovenia, for our citizens, that then in March 2020 the right government took the oath and because the then President – who I am also now thanking in this place – the current Secretary of State for National Security then because of the new job, logically, left this work, then I took over the chairmanship of this commission – I thank him for the hearings, for all the constructive work he has done by then and then we took over the work of the new president and the new members. As it is said, in this capacity he works for the parliamentary investigative commission Franz Kangler and the other is therefore not Franc Kangler. He has already washed his name by judicial decisions to some extent, and so is the case, but the stain caused by his long - standing media pursuit — believe me — is probably never washed. If not otherwise, these records remain online, remain in some time archives and so on. It is therefore important that any of us who will ever deal with a bicycle of pre-marital, pre-marital, and later criminal proceedings, have the legal certainty that in a serious democratic country is to be held. Because Mr. Kangler didn't have it. Let me also tell you, I still have just so much time in this concluding part of the debate that I am probably the only Member in this national assembly, in this reference, I have not looked back, which in the previous professional life of the journalist also had a house inquiry, of course illegal, logically speaking earlier, of course a respected colleague Anja Bah Žibert. It is said that in 90 percent, believe it or not, there are still house investigations, on the ground itself, in determining witnesses in the police domain. 90 percent of you are still the police today, a public confession by former police director Marjan Fank that 90 percent of you are still police officers who drive your own witnesses, in rare, rare exceptions you can have on the house investigation if you're fast enough, if you happen to be a neighbor who knows you at home, or you'll have police witnesses chosen. Which, of course, is wrong. As you can see, the Witnesses are on the house investigation to guarantee you or to protect your rights. Because now in the house investigation where the police bring their witnesses – yes, where my legal certainty is that I won't be a police officer, let's just say, warn me from abroad, maybe some cop who's a little bit of a hinterland, is bad enough to set me up in a house investigation. In my case, fortunately, as a journalist, I published a document, a document that, according to the prosecutor's opinion, was authentic, and then it turned out that it wasn't just a summary of some prosecutor's document. And on the basis of this, on the basis of a document, I had a house investigation in which the prosecutor claimed, which then also ordered a house investigation or a proposal to an investigative judge, that Kaloh should have a house investigation. I was lucky to be among the 10 percent of those, because I knew at least a little bit of legal knowledge, I said, no, no, no, gentlemen cops, but you'll just wait, I'll be my witnesses. It was a little awkward back then, but I did. Many citizens, 90 percent, do not have knowledge, do not know, remove the pressure that the uniformed police put on when they arrive, establish, and allow house investigations to be carried out. This is also one of our proposals in the decision to establish a final list of witnesses of the solitudes, such as sworn and judicial evaluators and forensic experts. It is said that it will be accurate to know that in certain territorial jurisdiction of the courts there will be certain sworn witnesses who will, of course, be tested in this regard to be certain credible, serious, responsible citizens. I think we could do a lot of things here in these predictive procedures. Mr President, at the conclusion of this debate, thank you for your attention. Once again, I hope that, as a motioner for this parliamentary investigation report in the case of Franz Kangler and the other well-founded, I have made these essential findings in the report that we are enjoying at least the majority support, because it is our legal country, however, that it is the legal security of our citizens. So I really hope and appeal to you to support these conclusions, because in the past, the police, the prosecution, even the judiciary, have been quite something. This is true for us in 2022, now 31 years of autonomy, a single state, we do not need our citizens to fall into such procedures that, at least in the Kangler case, seem to be politically motivated. What's more, of course, also on the topic that we opened today in the closed part of the investigator, and so far: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you, too. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the Magi proposalr gets the floor. Dean Kaloh. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u112	Yes, thank you very much. I'm still speaking as a proposalr, just for a little while, because then I'm going to take advantage of that time in the closed work that follows this open work. Allow me, because I think it is very important to point out these conclusions once again; previously, fellow Members have presented them in this amended form. There's three of them. The first is: “The National Assembly shall order the Investigation Commission to identify abuses in the case of Franz Kangler and the second, that the Report and the Additional Report on Parliamentary Investigation shall transmit to the National Investigation Office of the Ministry of the Interior and the Specialised State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the relevant evidence-gathering material of the Commission of Inquiry, as a role in the disclosure of suspected offences against unknown perpetrators: guilty prosecution under Article 283 KZ-1, abuse of official position or official rights under Article 257 KZ-1 and, “I stress that this has now been amended – “the offence of unknown work in the service under Article 258 KZ-1 for unjustified prosecution and the imposition of unfounded criminal charges against Franc Kangler and others”. [[…]] Under point two, there is a matter where we propose in the conclusion that the legal basis will be improved later, that there will be no more such, indeed obvious infringements in certain stages of forecasting or criminal proceedings. Therefore, the “State Council calls upon the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the findings in the Report and the Additional Report on Parliamentary Investigations, to order competent ministries to prepare appropriate amendments and to supplement the legal and sub-legislative provisions relating to the findings of the parliamentary inquiry in the following areas: prevention of the possibility of non-transparent police action and the possibility of possible police abuses in early stages of criminal proceedings in the conduct of investigations, house investigations, inspections and police proceedings in relation to suspects and witnesses; further, preventing the possibility of unwarranted and illegal investigations into police records and thus in the personal data of individuals and sanctioning such practices; the optimisation of provisions governing the house investigation, in particular the presence of two witnesses in the domestic investigation”, and the lifting of criminal acts prior to the execution of other infringements and the enforcement of criminal proceedings, and the enforcement of the evidence of criminal justice proceedings; The third decision was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia parliamentary groups, and this is the case. “Under point three: The National Assembly invites the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the findings in the Report and the Additional Report on Parliamentary Investigations carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, to order, within its competences, the supervision of the police work in the case of Franc Kangler and others and to take the necessary measures to remedy the irregularities and to prevent the repetition of these cases, to carry out an analysis of the case of Franc Kangler and the other, and of the results of the analysis of the familiarity with the management and operational unit of the police.” Therefore, from the place of proposer, my fellow Members and Members, I ask your support for the essential conclusions of this report. I myself believe that they are really very exact, legally drunk, and that they deserve your well-intentioned support, as well as the conclusions of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you, too. I am adjourning the debate, which will be resumed in half an hour in closed session with a joint debate on the Additional Report on the essential findings contained in the Additional Report and on the proposals for the conclusions contained in the Additional Report, as part of the remainder of the time of all the participants of the meeting on the basis of the simultaneous application to the debate. Members and Members shall be informed at the same time that the use of electronic devices, such as portable phones, computers, tape recorders, cameras and similar devices, will not be permitted in the next meeting in the Chamber. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.55 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 2.25 p.m. and resumed at 16.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u114	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 5, 3, 9, 10, 19, 20, 4, 6, 18, 11, 12, 12.A, 22 and 1st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 1 May. 2. 2022. Mr Lisec's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, I propose that the vote or decision on agenda 5 be postponed to one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u116	Procedural proposal, colleague Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u117	I'd like to take five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u118	Okay. I'm adjourning the session. We're going on to 16.15. (The sitting was suspended at 4.08 p.m. and resumed at 16.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u119	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the meeting. The SDS Group proposes that, pursuant to Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the decision on agenda 5 be postponed to one of the following meetings. Would you like a word from the government? I guess not. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. Comrade Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In the LMŠ we do not agree in any way to postpone the vote to one of the following meetings. If this were a single case and the arguments were justified, I would understand this, because this has become the practice of this ruling coalition and then you adapt this practice to yourself, as in the Income Act, for example, when you postpone the vote – yourself – you have made it impossible to vote in the National Assembly – alone, and that is not the case. Remember the Demographic Fund, it's still in the drawer somewhere because you postponed the vote. There is no argument that there is no democratic vote on the law in this national assembly. One. Except there's not enough of you. Except that. This is not enough to usurp the procedure in the National Assembly. Thus, we will vote against the withdrawal, and I also call on everyone else to enable this democratic process, which is called the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. Does the representative of the motioner want to speak? No, okay. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for a postponement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone decision on item 5 to one of the next meetings of the assembly. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 45. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We continue to make decisions. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SAB and unrelated Members to Article 12. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 42 votes against 41. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the left-wing groups and the SD to Article 20. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 37 votes to 43. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left for a new article 47a. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the left-wing groups and the SD to Article 48. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. 36 votes to 40. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since the representative of the Government, as a proposal for a proposal for a law, has already proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 29. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. More than a third was against it. Yeah, everything's fine. Any more questions? [[No, no, ……]] We are now voting that the draft law on third reading be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Scholarship, Development, Disability and Maintenance under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Members in the framework of the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the audit firm for the revision of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Report on Parliamentary Investigations by the Commission of Inquiry on the finding of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and Others. First of all, we turn to the decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are set out in the report on pages 76 to 134. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the report or the essential findings of the report have not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the proposals for the conclusions of the Report, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 31 January 2022. We're voting. [[…]] [[Advertisers from benches]] I'm breaking up first. I'm sorry. [[…]] We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular to the first decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Specifically for a new third decision. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposals for the conclusions contained in the Report. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that no decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are contained in the Additional Report on pages 11 to 28. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in any possible explanation of vote, you do not provide personal data from the Additional Report, which are protected under the law. No wish. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry are not accepted. We decide on the proposals for the conclusions contained in the Additional Report. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions contained in the Additional Report. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 42. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that no decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Limitation and Allocation of Currency Risk between Creditors and Borrowers in Swiss francs under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 31. 1. 2022. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 5. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 52, for 8. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – second reading of the Bill on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 31. 1. 2022. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 194. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 35, for 39. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of vote, colleague Zabret on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. We will vote against the bill in the LMŠ Group. This time you have also hidden a ruling coalition in the law, indicating a painful desire to change all functioning subsystems in the Republic of Slovenia. This time, too, the government wants to legitimize the full control of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The Information Officer explained in detail that a number of provisions are not in accordance with the Constitution and the General Data Protection Regulation, but you, representatives of the Coalition, have absolutely nothing to worry about. Instead, we have heard only the nagging that these comments are completely too much and that somehow it sounded as if we were unnecessarily complicating. Let's take a quick look at what you want to do with the law. The Office will be able to collect data from virtually all of our records of all citizens and citizens, and they will be able to look without any orders into our data, personal data, health, property, how many working hours we have. The inspectors will be able to enter our apartment without a court order and review our records and conduct other investigative actions. The Office will report only to the Government and not to the National Assembly, but at the same time it will be able to refuse to even provide information to the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police. Come in. The staff of the Office will also be able to provide the information obtained to other authorities if they request financial information and analysis from the Office. The three ministers who are currently: Mr Šircelj, Mr Dikaucič and Mr Hojs will decide which bodies will be referred to under the proposed law. And to decide who will be able to obtain this information, they are not bound by any criteria, as proposed by law. Attention, no criteria! It's a complete self-assessment. But it is also worrying that the SDS and NSI voted against the withdrawal of the Penal Code, so they support it, while at the same time supporting the proposal of this law, which is before us today. And it is more than obvious that just before the elections, everything is working out that some first-class electorates will be released as soon as possible and all others will be subject to unconstitutional supervision and data collection. It all goes in style: What can anyone do to us, or by the footsteps of Louis XIV: The country, that is me. We therefore strongly oppose the proposed law in the LMŠ and we will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My friend Baković, on behalf of the MP? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said in the debate, the position of the Group of Members is that this law is controversial; perhaps even more so than the disputed Penal Code that we have had before us this week. Therefore, the information officer also objected in an argument both in the field of data collection, which is collected in stock and, in fact, without any specific purpose, as well as in the Legislative and Legal Service. Finally, the powers of the office and of the inspector are also disputed here. It is true that some or a lot of powers stem from the previous law, but the legal and legal service here is the reason that it is also necessary to define in the new law whether such a serious intervention is still necessary in the private sphere of an individual or not, and to explain it accordingly. This was not justified in this law. That is why it is in fact controversial and, of course, the Social Democrats are extremely opposed and we will vote against it. At the same time, let me say what I have already said that the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Act deals with two things: money laundering and financing of terrorism, that is, terrorism. All of this is already stated in the Penal Code. The Penal Code is a set of offences and the proceedings relating to the investigation of criminal offences are set out in the Criminal Procedure Act, if the offence is committed, are set out in the Offences Act. And that is also all where all the provisions on the investigation of these crimes should be stated. If they are listed in some other laws, this means that there is an additional lack of transparency and, of course, the possibility of abuse. In fact, this is the extra moment that goes by all those who think rationally that we will oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[Yeah.]] Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President. I don't think we have to lose a lot of words. What does this marriage bring? Under the pretext of combating money laundering and financing terrorism, it introduces unlimited and very broad powers to the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Under the pretext that this will make it easier to investigate these money launderers, they are contrary to the Constitution, the laws, including comparable practices abroad some people at this office............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Those who have been investigated and would, of course, have been decided by the Minister would not even know that they have been investigated because there is no obligation to inform the examiner of the use of this data. And finally, the inspectorate, or representatives of the office, could enter your private premises. That's what this law brings. The Information Officer was very clear, and the Law-Legal Service was also very clear. This goes beyond any normal provisions in the Constitution and, of course, some minimum standards of proportionality in that country. Of course, we all agree that money laundering must be prevented at source and immediately and with all possible means. But we are talking about the law proposed by the government coalition, which has no problem making public efforts to prevent two of its political opponents. We are talking about a coalition that, while under the pretext of saving lives, filled its own pockets and pockets with friends. And we're talking about a coalition that has no reservations about humiliation, mud and discrediting anyone who thinks otherwise than its representatives. The last thing you saw was a police fine on a Twitterist, a former politician who just said a few critical words to this government. That's what we're talking about. Of course, such a law is not only wrong in the idea, but it is wrong to get it in the hands of the wrong people. And right now, we are ruled by definitely wrong people with bad intentions. With the level of destruction of institutions that have been shown so far, I think it is clear to all of us that this is not only a scandal similar to that of the Penal Code, but that the adoption of such a law can be dangerous for the country and, of course, especially for citizens and citizens who do not agree with this coalition. We're going to vote against it in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvat on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all; Nova Slovenija announced publicly that she voted against the Penal Code. That wasn't possible because you took him away. Okay? Now, the biggest problem was the inspector's mandate in this law. And to remember, we will support this marriage. I went to do a computer comparison of the text, the powers of the inspector in the law that you, ladies and gentlemen supported in 2016 – I will not list the names so that I will not ruin anyone's evening. This law, or this article, which speaks of the inspector's powers in the bill that we will now decide on, is practically a copy of the trap. Well, I'm mathematically accurate: in the existing word “whatever” is written together, this new word is broken. That's the difference. And “other than to the extent” in force, the new reads “except if”. That's what the computer did, that smart box. Nine-year-olds can do that, and I did it. So, and now you're a problem with the inspector's powers, but 2016 was good. So much for the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Then in his own name, Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The urgency and urgency of the proposed solution in this law is in particular that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering with New, Practically Unlimited Powers should relieve us of the hypothetical and truth risks of terrorism, particularly its financing. That is why I will not today support legal solutions that give any authority greater powers than the existing law enforcement bodies, such as the police, the prosecution, the court and so on. I do not agree that officials of one or more departments may arbitrarily decide whether or not the data obtained during the stage of proceedings will be transmitted to the police and other law enforcement authorities. I do not support proposals for legal solutions which allow an official to carry out certain investigations without a court order which, under the CAP, is prescribed that authorised officials may only carry out them on the basis of a court order. For this area, I think we already have well-ordered criminal law legislation, but if the current solutions are too narrow and do not cover all the positions, then let us settle this in this legislation. We must by no means afford to break the hierarchy of the legal system, particularly in the field of criminal law, where deep interference with human rights and freedoms is concerned. Because of some hypothetical dangers, we cannot and must not cancel our privacy under every condition. As I have already said, personally and also as a member of our country, I do not support the proposed amendments, because they go far beyond the provisions of EU directives and because the proposed solutions undermine the functioning of the internal legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Lydia Divac Mirnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Why should we vote against this law today? Are you really here today, who will vote for, in this Chamber, you want Minister Dikaucič to be in criminal proceedings for the suspicion of a crime of tax evasion and pay attention! – money laundering Watch out, once again: money laundering, then decide to look into your documents, personal data, financial transactions, even your health. [[…]] Watch out for what? Because of the suspicion of money laundering! Do you know what we call it in Maribor? What are you, crazy? Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Comrade Starović, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't you? Okay. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 51. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 51.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the agenda, this is to decide on the draft resolution on the general long-term development programme and the equipment of the Slovenian military by the summer of 2035. Since a proposal for a consultative referendum on the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 was tabled on 19 October 2021, the National Assembly had to take into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative when deciding on that motion for a consultative referendum at 26 October 2021, which meant that it had to decide before it finally decided on the motion for a resolution. The Assembly later at its 28th meeting on 16 December 2021 did not adopt a proposal to call for an advisory referendum on that resolution, so we are now moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2035 in its entirety. We're voting. I'm breaking up, I thought, but let me get my hand up more carefully. Comrade Korazi on behalf of the Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. See, there is no social consensus in Slovenia on defence and military policies. Not only does it not exist, but there is also no consensus on what the inhabitants and residents of this country want from the Slovenian Army and what kind of army we want. That we do not have a social consensus on this in Slovenia has become quite clear in the course of the adoption of the Law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, on the basis of which it intends to spend €780 million of public money in the next six years for the purchase of weapons and military technology. However, when we proposed a call for an advisory referendum in Levica at that time, the Government essentially opposed us and urged us to actually go to the legislative referendum. And after we collected over 30,000 signatures, this proposal simply rejected the referendum. Indeed, when we speak of this new resolution, a motion for a resolution by 2035 is actually being prepared four years before the expiry of the old. This resolution provides for a number of additions or increases as part of the purchase of arms and these things. Thus, the number of members of the Slovenian Army will also increase throughout the composition. It is then stipulated in this resolution that the share of expenditure for the Slovenian Army should increase by 2 per cent of GDP by 2035. Then there are other things, or I will say quite a shopping list recommended, which lists the long shopping lists of weapons and other war techniques, where the 780 million Euros that are envisaged for them in the previous law that I mentioned earlier actually look like change. Because in fact, this resolution literally calls it open arms trade. With these controversial billions of expenditure on arms and on NATO-led operations, compulsory military service is still envisaged and so on. Thus, the resolution goes beyond the framework of the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and we therefore strongly oppose, and we also want this government and also the Minister, given that we also have a defence minister who has never served a military term, to re-think why this weapon is being purchased and why now. Once again, in the Group of the Left, we will vote strongly against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? I guess not. My friend Kordesh in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. In four points, what is the Resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. One: increasing the participation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in missions abroad under the NATO Pact for some foreign interests. Two: new additional purchases of weapons. We are even talking about more than €5 billion of additional expenditure by 2035. In the shopping cart, which weapons are supposed to be in this amount, we also find artillery. Three: The resolution lays the groundwork for the militarisation of Slovenian education. And four: it opens up the possibility of introducing recruitment that people in this country reject because they do not want to service the needs and appetites of the NATO Pact. The four points of reference and the themes of this resolution on the Slovenian Army are the four reasons why it is necessary to vote against it. That's exactly how I'm going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 24. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 24.) I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the time of the day, this is on the defence motion for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the international criminal court on the execution of the sentence of the International Criminal Court. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 2. (The vote was 81.)(against 2.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Mongolia on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. (The vote was 63.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 12th A Agenda item, which is the decision on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the cooperation organisation on the common arms policy (OCCAR) on the management of the Boxer programme on the OCCAR side. Since a proposal for a consultative referendum was tabled on 16 December 2021 on the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR, the National Assembly had to take into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative when deciding on that proposal for an advisory referendum at its 28th meeting on 16 December 2021, which meant that it had to decide before it finally decided on a proposal for a law. The assembly later at its 94th extraordinary meeting on 26 January did not adopt a proposal to call for an advisory referendum on that law, so we are now moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms Management of Boxer by the OCCAR. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Ambassador Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. It is a little strange that we started the mandate of the current National Assembly from 2018 until now in 2022 by saving the citizens and citizens 350 million euros when we in Levika prevented the purchase of unnecessary Boxer armor on the same day as Marjan Sarec was appointed Prime Minister of the Government. Four years later, we are doing the same purchase for the same Boxer armor for an additional EUR 50 million. The government of Janez Janša decided that she was more interested in buying new weapons in foreign military-industrial complexes after the Nato Pact. How problematic these purchases are, it is already evident in the rising price for armoured personnel. For the first time, we could hear Boxer armored in this country in 2017, the price attributed to them was EUR 207 million. Today we are talking about a doubling of €412 million. This should already ring the bell to everyone, but not to Matthew Tonin, the district minister, nor to the current government, who wants to sign all possible arms agreements before April 24th before people send them to the history dump. EUR 400 million for armoured people is EUR 400 million lost for actual social needs, such as public non-profit housing, public housing for older citizens, social response to climate damage and so on. Moreover, even if we agree to the thesis that Slovenia is militarily threatened, which is not and is bought for operation on missions, not in the country, this kind of military technique for the defence of gorillas and scattered Slovenia is completely inappropriate. Boxers are too wide and too heavy to get across half of Slovenian territory, but they are so much more suitable for driving around the suburbs of the third world, as in the suburbs of Baghdad, deserts and steppes; of course, to push some other nationals there on behalf of American corporations. All these are the reasons why in Levi we oppose OCCAR as a form of buying Boxer 8x8. Every cent involved in NATO's weapons is a cent for foreign occupation and not for the defence of the country; and every cent involved in NATO's weapons is lost for the development and prosperity that people in this country need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Nick Prebil. In my own name. I am even more concerned if anyone wants to do so on behalf of the Group of Members. If not, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, hello! Perhaps from a different point of view, you could get into this subject and explain your voice. Neither I nor the LMŠ party have ever opposed the Slovenian Army, to a different extent, supported it and respected it. I think it should be recalled here that the government of Marjana Sarca, where LMŠ was the leading government party, was the first since 2010, to raise funds for the Slovenian Army, which enabled both technological development and development in its equipment and, of course, in the acquisition of personnel. Today, however, we are in a very different situation than we were then. Back then, there was a surplus in our budget, today a multibillion-dollar hole. We therefore need to ask ourselves very well and look at public financial stability, the public financial situation, when we talk about funds for the Slovenian Army or equipment through the OCCAR system or organisation, so the Boxer programme, which provides for the purchase of EUR 420 million of armoured personnel, does not really know how much it will cost, with respect, the Ministry of Defence today, when you accept ratification. In fact, the Secretary of State is always talking. We'll get an offer when the case is signed. Yeah, well, where else did you see this to get an offer after you signed the contract? Despite the fact that some other European countries are also involved in this project, it should be noted that these armoured personnel do not receive a number of years when they receive them, but these armoured personnel do not function as they should. Out of caution, not out of opposition to the Slovenian Army, I will vote against it myself, because I don't think we are in a situation where we can afford to spend hundreds of millions of euros on something we don't even know about, or work, and on the other hand, we don't even know how many millions of us are actually going to cost it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, in his own name? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for your word. Three quarters of the people in this country are opposed to the fact that civil funds are being fought to buy any weapons. They know damn well that every euro that goes to Nate and Nate's weapon is lost for the well-being of the house. Therefore, on our initiatives after the referendums and the cessation of arms purchases, the Government responds with an argument, and yet we work for everyone, money is enough for everyone. We'll buy weapons and build a health system. We'll equip the armored men and set up public homes for the elderly. How this reality that money is enough for everyone seems to be able to point out just in case of my own local Bishop Loka. While the government wants to buy Boxer 8x8 armor for 400 million euros, there grows a private home for older citizens. Why? Because there's no money for the public. Or if I translate this same thesis, where and how people pay these kind of armored men, on the basis of a quarter more expensive price for private home care at an old age, because the government has decided that there is no money for public custody capacity. No thanks, no Nate, no armor, no guns. Citizens' funds should be spent at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-02-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Janja Viher to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. The proposal was treated as a parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision which elects Janja Viher as judge of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election in the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Krske. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly proposals for the election of Mojca Bregar and Darja Jerman Bartolj in judicial capacity at the District Court in Krška. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. First of all, we move to a decision on a motion for a decision that will allow for the election of Mojca Bregar as a judge of the District Court. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will give the District Court in the District Court of Krske election of Darje Jerman Bartolj. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Jasmine Zajc to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to elect Jasmina Zajc as judge of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are still moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Matej Škrabar as a member of the State Audit Commission for 8 years. Yes, Skabar, I'm sorry. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 58 votes against 22. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for a member of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from humanitarian organisations that are listed in the Humanitarian Organisations. Mr Nataša Jan and Dr Janja Završnik, for the period until the end of the terms of office of members appointed by a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 22 March 2017. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the provision of protective equipment and the measures taken by institutions and bodies of public functions to combat the spread of COPID-19 disease from 1. 2. 2020 until the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 81 votes against no one. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. It's 82 votes against no one. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses and non-economic behaviour in the DUTB. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions for financially inadequate measures and the suspicion of unjustified restriction of rights in the implementation of measures related to the Covid-19 disease epidemic. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the determination of the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unacceptable political interference in the work of the police and the political impact on the flow or outcome of forecasting and other procedures. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday, 4 February. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Minister and Ministers of 1 February 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First conclusion: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the actual situation in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša to the question by Janja Slug on the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matej Tonin asked Violet Tomić about the role of the Slovenian Army in laying the wreaths to collaborators with a Nazi invader on the Day of Remembrance of the Dead in the Bahamas. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 41. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška, to the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding the purchase of the Ptuj Selection and Testing Centre. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 43. (The vote was 40.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simone Kustec to the question of the delegation of Lydia Divac Mirnik concerning the mental health of children and adolescents. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 41. (The vote was 42.)(against 41.) I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of mag. Mark Koprivac in connection with political recruitment in the Public Research Agency. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. (The vote was 40.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for John Cigler King on the Eve Irgle question on the situation in the field of institutional protection of the elderly. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. (The vote was 40.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anjet Logar, to the question of mags. Andrej Reich in connection with the increase in the impact of neighbouring countries on the Slovenian economy. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. (The vote was 41.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anjet Logar, to the question of Mr Horvat, on the achievements of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. (For the vote was 39.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to the question of the Member State, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, concerning the situation in the area of cohesion policy for the financial perspective 2014-2020. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. (The vote was 40.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška, to the question of metrology in the field of agriculture. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 59. (For the vote was 18.)(against 59.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja's question about the problems of employees in the accounting sector was asked by Andreja Zabret. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 41. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Mr Andrej Visiak on the question of Mr Franz Trčko concerning the Pohorje Regional Park. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 40. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar to the question by Mr Židan on the conditions for entry into public health homes. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak asked Igor Peck about the use of funds under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 40. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 40.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Andrej Širclja asked Matjaž Germany about the deregulation of gambling and attempts to dismember strategic tourism infrastructure. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Starović's delegation regarding the financing of long-term care. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of the question of Primož Siter concerning the provision of social security for self-employed workers in events during the epidemic. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 41. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of Mr Violeta Tomić, on the withdrawal of the status of society in the public interest of the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values, the so-called yellow vest. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožeta Podgorška, to the question of Mr Lenart on the action plan to increase the competitiveness of the forest chain by 2030. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 39, for 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin's question to Mojce Žnidarič about the systematic regulation of the field of firefighting. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members, 52, 29. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin's question on the question of Mika Kordiš's mission regarding the bullying of trade union representatives in the Slovenian Army. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members, 38, 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anžet Logar, to the question of Mr. Nataša Sukič, on Slovenia's role in calming tensions at the eastern Ukrainian border. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, for 31, for 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of mag. Mr Andrej Reich concerning the discharge of the members of the Management Board of the Public Research Agency. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, for 40, for 42. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day!
