ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Starting the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Franc Jurša, Luka Mesec from 18:00 onwards, Nick Prebil, Alexander Reberšek until 6 p.m., Matjaž Han from 15:00 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček until 11 a.m., Jure Ferrjan, Željko Cigler from 2 p.m., Igor Zorčič from 15.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. and Jani Prednik. I welcome all those present once again! We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AGRICULTURE LAW, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Jožet Podgoršk, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We're really talking about the Agriculture Act today. This time it is mainly more technical changes that are important for us to start implementing the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy in a timely manner with 1. 1. 2023. Allow me to briefly highlight the key changes or additions we are introducing in the law. The implementation of the new Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy newly sets management bodies and management bodies. The obligations of beneficiaries to designate the source of co-financing shall be passed on. Measures to implement the new strategic plan during the new programming period shall also be included among individual agricultural policy actions. The cost catalogue shall also be used in the calculation of the eligible amount of support in the framework of the implementation of the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy. The legal basis for regulating the scope of the system of controls and penalties shall be laid down; during this programming period, the system of controls, penalties and sanctions has been regulated in the Commission's delegated regulations and in the new Regulation it must be in national regulations. In order to comply with EU rules, the definition of the operator of the agricultural holding and the farm is complemented. There is also no longer a mandatory membership for farm members on farms. Independent entrepreneurs registered for agricultural activities cannot be members of the farm. It is also no longer entered as a substitute for the holder in the register of agricultural holdings and the conditions for the transfer of agricultural holdings are laid down. In accordance with European Union rules, the new IAC component of the system to be established by the Member States is also a system for monitoring surfaces that enables regular and systematic observation, monitoring, assessment of activities and practices on agricultural and forestry land. The data to be obtained by using this area monitoring system will be used to carry out inspections in the implementation of agricultural policy measures. In connection with this area monitoring system, a communication tool with customers is also being introduced - SOPOTNIK. Follow-up inspections are also new. Where the conditions of eligibility cannot be established on the basis of satellite data and other evidence, a rapid field inspection will be carried out in the framework of the monitoring. This will still make it possible to remedy identified irregularities and to modify applications or requests for payment of funds. Now such irregularities have always been followed by sanctions, and in the future we also allow for these changes. The work on the specific administrative procedure also proposes certain changes to simplify procedures, speed up procedures and improve the legal situation of the parties. The amendments are also part of the work relating to partially open calls for proposals. In addition to the strategic plan, the draft law also lays down the legal basis for the adoption of an action plan for organic farming and an action plan for working with young farmers. A new climate report on agricultural conditions is being established, which is being prepared at least every other year. It also lays down the responsibility for the implementation of Union rules to collect and process the data necessary to assess the effectiveness of greenhouse gas, ammonia and other pollutants in livestock and agricultural soil. The legal basis for determining the number of head of large livestock, i.e. GVZ, is laid down. More force and exceptional circumstances are also regulated than an exception to the rules and an inexhaustible list of possible cases of force majeure and exceptional circumstances is set out. The system of informal education in beekeeping is changing, and on the basis of a number of discussions with stakeholders, we propose that the area of informal education in beekeeping, which we now call the beekeeping academy, beekeeping, beekeeping is subject to concession, and this is also being carried out in this way. Records and a number of data collection are being processed. In the section of the Food Supply Chain, this chapter is supplemented by minor changes due to additional adjustments to the transposition of the Directive on unfair trade practices and also to adjustments to the functioning of the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia as a supervisory authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body by the mother, and I give the floor to Mr Edward Paulic, Chairman of the Committee, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the amendment to the Agriculture Act at its 33rd urgent meeting, on 24. 2. 2022. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made some comments in the written opinion. Among other things, she pointed out that the proposed amendment contained a number of statutory provisions for sub-legislative regulation which did not provide a sufficient substantive framework to ensure that sub-laws could be duly bound by law. Such linkage requires the principle of legality set out in Article 120 of the Constitution. It also highlighted the need to adopt a new agricultural law. Regarding the amendments of the coalition groups, she pointed out that they did not remove any comments in terms of compliance with the Constitution or the principle of legality, so that certain provisions remained controversial. The representative of the Council of State stressed that we are severely lagging behind in the area of food security. In addition, it is possible to understand from the statistics the worrying information that the number of persons with disabilities in holding an agricultural activity is significantly decreasing. This means that farmers leave the agricultural activity because there is a large price imbalance in the food chain, with prices in most agricultural markets at the time of the covida-19 crisis practically reaching the bottom, while at the same time increasing prices of energy and mineral fertilisers. It also highlighted the problem of low buying-in prices of agricultural land in decommissioning processes. With regard to the introduction of a new area monitoring system, SOPOTNIK applications, the Commission points out that news needs to be introduced gradually due to problems with internet coverage and lack of digital literacy. The Commission has also highlighted the need for legal regulation of the status of family farms, as there are practical problems in the legal, social and labour fields, as a result of legal uncertainty. The President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also drew attention to provisions that would require work on-line and use of online tools from agricultural holdings. The Chamber also draws attention to the issue of Internet coverage, lack of experience with applications, and e-communication alone is not a solution. In the short discussion of the Committee members, the chapter on adaptation and mitigation of climate change in agriculture was highlighted in particular. Members pointed out that strategic plans for food supply and an action plan for the forest and forest chain should be adopted as soon as possible. They expressed concern about the war situation in Ukraine, which will affect the production and price of cereals, as Ukraine and Russia produce a quarter of all cereals worldwide. Since this crisis will undoubtedly have an impact on the encouragement of cereals in our country, increased self-sustainment in the field of cereals is of strategic importance. The debate is also marked by the adoption of such large-scale changes under the urgent procedure. In this regard, the Minister explained that the urgency procedure was proposed because compliance with EU legislation is needed for the new programming period of the Agricultural Policy Group, which was adopted and published only in December 2021. Due to the upcoming elections and the formation of a new government, the Ministry does not want to risk that the proposed novels would not be adopted in time. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment to the Committee, in which it took up the content of the amendment of the LMŠ Group, after which the Ministry would have to submit an annual report on adaptation to climate change to the National Assembly no later than one month after the report was prepared. The Committee also adopted all amendments to the SDS's parliamentary groups, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Vojko Starović. He will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	Vice President, thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Agricultural Law is mostly about changes in the technical nature needed primarily to implement the new strategic plan for the common agricultural policy. We have adopted a law in the National Assembly at the end of January, and, as for many other laws recently, it has also been proposed to deal with it under an urgent procedure. At the end of the term of office, the current government seems to be in a great hurry. I also drew attention to the inadequacy of such intentions at the meetings of my mother’s working body. In the end, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service also testified to the urgency in which the law was apparently drawn up in the end. The Common Agricultural Policy is one of the oldest policies of the European Union. Its general objectives have changed over the years and have always followed developments and guidelines. The three main general objectives of the current common agricultural policy are: promoting food security, strengthening environmental care and climate action, strengthening rural areas. In the last two years, and even in the last few weeks, she has gained important questions at her current level. Food safety is one way or another at the time of impact due to the dependence of the industry on time, and a major blow to agriculture and related activities has been hit by the covida-19 pandemic. Now the crisis is further deepening the war situation in our immediate vicinity, and fears are atoning what will be one of the basic objectives of the CAP at all – a stable supply of food at affordable prices. Given that agricultural producers cannot respond without delay to increased consumer demand, the answer is clear. Food, self-sustainment, local production and rural development must make Slovenia a higher priority on the scale. Slovenian agricultural policy must be one of the most important tasks of the country, as it is clear that a country cannot be sovereign without self-sufficiency in the field of food. There is therefore insufficient awareness that we must not allow ourselves to be dependent on foreign markets, and this must also be followed by strategic direction, action and action. Promoting self-sustainment and local and organic food production is, in the opinion of the SAB, crucial. We need to raise our own food production by encouraging more than 80% of self-sustainment in both vegetables, fruit and cereals, with at least half of these foods being organically grown. We also need to maintain high self-sustainment with meat and dairy products, with at least 50% being organic. Given that the European Commission has proposed a more flexible system to simplify and modernise the functioning of the CAP, we need to make good use of this. For there will be no more compliance with the rules, but above all results and success. This will enable Member States to assess and decide how to meet the common objectives of European agricultural policy. Because the Slovenian countryside is extremely diverse and diverse, the practices and approaches taken by the State to ensure the economy is highly competitive and resilient and thus ensuring that agriculture is efficient, modern and productive, while also environmentally sustainable. The adoption of the Agriculture Act will provide a legal basis for the implementation of the CAP strategic plan, which is, among other things, essential for drawing on European funds. This is already a sufficient reason for not being able to oppose the proposal of the law. This will also be the decision of the SAB Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, who will present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Due to the needs imposed by the reform of the common agricultural policy and due to the adjustment of EU legislation, today we have quite a few changes to the basic agricultural law, which, according to the proposaler, are somewhat more technical in nature. The Novela of the Agricultural Act complements the definition of the agricultural economy as well as the holder of the farm, adds the definition of beekeeper and deletes the term of the farm deputy. In agriculture too, it is necessary to keep abreast of trends in climate change adaptation and mitigation, and a new Article 13a is proposed in the law, creating a new climate report on agriculture. In this regard, we add that farmers will not have any new obligations under this heading. There is also a new legal basis for the adoption of an action plan for organic farming and an action plan for young farmers. The attention given to these two areas is certainly never too much, in the belief of our Group of Members. Ecological agriculture creates a high added value in preserving the cultural, agricultural and environmental landscapes as well as in protecting our environment and health. Finally, the growing importance of organic farming is also recognised by final consumers. Given the declining trends in agricultural activities over the past decade, it is particularly necessary to create conditions in this area that will make farming attractive to younger generations. We like to say he's standing on a young world. However, in the Group of Members, we are particularly aware of the need for young people to create appropriate foundations and incentives in the targeted areas, which is particularly necessary in the area of agriculture. The amendment of the law also introduces a communication tool with parties called SOPOTNIK in connection with the area monitoring system. The use of the tool will be mandatory in cases where the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development will, in the decision-making process on eligibility of funds, identify the actual situation on the basis of data obtained through the application of this system. A qualified digital signature will not be required for the use of the SPECITOR, which means that this novelty will not bring farmers too much additional administrative burden. During the transitional period, information will be provided in three ways, via text messages, e-mails or regular mail, at the request of stakeholders. In the Group of Members, we specifically welcome the solutions that go hand in hand with time, but we will always stand in the position that they must be based on the idea that they make it easier for farmers to carry out their basic mission. Furthermore, a legal basis is introduced to determine the head of large livestock, which is currently missing at the legal level. In order to carry out informal education in the field of beekeeping, it is a novelty to move on to a full range of concessions. This means that education will no longer be carried out within the framework of the Slovenian Beekeeping Academy and that the Ministry of Agriculture will award these tasks to a qualified external operator on the basis of a call for tender. Participants in these non-formal educations will mainly be interested in beekeepers from abroad. We are particularly aware of the potential of Slovenia with its beekeeping heritage, and the latter is also an exceptional opportunity for an even better development of beekeeping or so-called apiturism and the subsequent creation of new jobs and economic growth. With all future improvements in agricultural legislation, it is particularly important today that the values of food security and a high level of self-sustainment are at the forefront. We consider these solutions to be appropriate, and we will therefore support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Act in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The Agriculture Act was adopted almost 14 years ago and has been amended seven times. The proposed amendment contains most of the provisions aimed at implementing the new strategic plan for the common agricultural policy from 2023 to 2027. However, a few proposals relate to the adaptation of European Union legislation. Thus, in order to implement the new strategic plan of the common agricultural policy, several provisions relating to governance, labelling obligations, co-financing sources and to the system of controls and sanctions are being amended. The latter will be further regulated in national regulations. In addition, the definition of the agricultural holding and the carrier is amended and the transfer between agricultural holdings is regulated. The proposal also refers to the area of adaptation and mitigation of climate change in agriculture, with the Ministry preparing a climate report on agricultural conditions, at least every other year. At the same time, the EU Regulation also regulates the area monitoring system managed by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development. A new communication tool is also being introduced in connection with this system called SOPOTNIK. It will be intended to communicate between the agency and the parties. In this way, the Agency will identify the actual situation in the eligibility decision-making process on the basis of the data obtained through the application of this system, and the customer will also be able to monitor the data obtained and give evidence of the facts found and provide evidence within a certain period of time. With regard to the SOPOTOR tool, I should like to point out that, in view of the older population and also the coverage of certain Internet areas, it is extremely important that the carrier be able to decide for himself whether to receive the notifications in this form alone or to use other means of communication. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. In view of the situation in agriculture, in particular with regard to self-sustainment, we call for comprehensive amendments to the new agricultural law to be adopted in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jani Ivanuša, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! The proposal for an agricultural law has been amended seven times so far, as my predecessor stressed. On one occasion, he also passed a constitutional review of the provisions on the food supply chain. Agricultural economic activity is of particular social importance precisely because of its multi-purpose role. The basic task of agriculture in relation to food is to produce safe and quality food for us and for our craftsmen. We must be aware that farming also has a major impact on the quality of our water, soil, air and biodiversity, and also contributes to the image of the cultural landscape in Slovenia. Its economic and social role is of great importance for the vitality and settlement of the Slovenian countryside. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that agriculture must allow our citizens a higher level of self-sustainment, now and not after the crisis. The war in Ukraine has only increased the energy crisis, as oil prices have skyrocketed. Prices also increased in wheat, maize, olive oil, so much more so is necessary and necessary self-sustainment. The current situation on the European market in the future will force many Slovenians to intervene on the food of Slovenian origin, despite having to pay a higher price for it. In March, we also addressed a written initiative to the Government on the contribution to improving food security. We stress that our strategic objective should be to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of organic seeds. In the light of the achievement of the objectives of the Green Agreement, we have taken the initiative to give priority to seed houses in the rental and purchase of land from the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to introduce the selection and breeding programmes financed by the Treasury. Finally, allowing organic farmers who have to take part in compulsory training in order to maintain their status to choose their own lecturers and to introduce so-called shepherds. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to the Agriculture Act are mainly necessary for the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy, which requires Slovenia to draw up a strategic plan of the common agricultural policy for the 2023-2027 programming period. In the LMŠ, we believe that such important changes, which are indeed a condition for the launch of agricultural policies for a period of five years and could have serious consequences for Slovenian agriculture, could have been adopted by regular procedure much earlier, even in the context of the latest changes in last year, but not that the attention of the government and the threat with a cross-date date is a threat. 1. 2023 is a key reason for adoption by emergency procedure. That's not good. We have already pointed out this in the LMŠ with amendments to the Agriculture Act last year, when, despite a lengthy discussion, some of the key content, such as the definition of the farmer and the agricultural economy that we are adopting today, has been excluded. The amendments to the Agriculture Act are again faced with the evidence of impreciseness and renumbered decisions for sub-legislative regulation, which do not provide a sufficient substantive framework for the law to be legally bound. Accordingly, one of the key tasks of the Minister of Agriculture in the new mandate will be the adoption of a new agricultural law For LMŠ, the area of organic farming is extremely important, since the focus on organic farming in terms of Slovenian natural heritage is organic and especially suitable for hill farms in an area of limited activities where different activities are intertwined, from livestock, forestry, tourism and so on. Some hilly areas already represent a large number of organic farms, but this is still more exceptional, as the differences in the number of organic farms between different areas with similar farming conditions are still very pronounced. I am pleased to see that, even today, in your views, you are also reminding other parties of the importance of organic farming. This is, of course, good, because it will make it easier to achieve our goals. In LMŠ, we are convinced that the existence of hill farms depends on complementary activities, where tourism in rural areas is certainly a part of the ecological self-sustainment and experience of the diverse naturalities offered by Slovenia. An important part of the management of the Slovenian farmer is, of course, a forest where we need to accelerate the activities of the forest and forest chain and to enter the self-sustainment not only wood processing activities, but also the area of self-heating with biomass. In adapting and mitigating climate change, sonar and conservation agriculture will play a special role, bringing up to 40% lower greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture. As in the LMŠ, we believe that a comprehensive and professional analysis of climate change adaptation is a prerequisite for planning quality and, above all, effective sustainable agriculture policies, we have proposed an amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, which will enable the Ministry of State to report on the analysis of the trends in greenhouse gases and air pollution in agriculture and agricultural policy measures and their impact. We are pleased that this amendment has been adopted. The argument that Slovenian agriculture is already more successful than European soil nitrogen limit standards is, of course, not fooling us into offering sustainable farming methods a more decisive role and reducing the backlog behind the most successful countries in this area. This, of course, is our constant task. In the LMŠ, we welcome the addition of beekeeper status to the definition of an active farmer for this time’s amendments to the Agriculture Act, which excuses the beekeeper to the extended part of the rural development programmes. In LMŠ we are also well aware that when we talk about Slovenian bees and the resolution of Slovenian beekeeping, we must also understand the necessary transition to sustainable forms of farming. Informal education in the field of beekeeping, proposed in a different form by the law, seems irrelevant if it is not followed by an honest and sustainable natural agricultural policy that preserves biodiversity and a friendly attitude towards pollinators. A secure food supply chain is essential for the protection of the Slovenian farmer because unfair commercial practices are still emerging. Although the law introduces certain measures, in this area we will have to take a firmer stand in the defence of Slovenian farmers. In LMŠ, we will not oppose the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The agricultural sector is regulated in Slovenia by the Agriculture Act, which was adopted as such in 2008. Over the years, marriage has been amended and supplemented seven times. However, the amendment and the addition under number 8 will take place at this meeting of the National Assembly. Why are changes and additions even necessary? As the proponents say, the law must be amended and adapted in particular due to the reform of the common agricultural policy, which will begin in 2023, and legal matter must also be adapted to European Union legislation. The proposal will not be subject to minor changes as it is written on more than a hundred pages and brings complex objectives and solutions. The Government or the Ministry of the Interior shall ensure that the essential objectives of the law remain unchanged and that the EU regulations necessary for the reform of the common agricultural policy are taken into account accordingly. The proposed solutions provide regulated legal basis on which the government will be able to regulate the scope of the control system and penalties, complement the definition of the agricultural holding and the definition of the agricultural holding itself. The solutions provide for the establishment of conditions for the transfer of the agricultural holding to a new individual farmer and for the arrangements for the mandatory IAC component of the area monitoring system. Legal solutions and objectives simplify certain administrative procedures and improve the legal situation of the parties, regulate the legal basis for the adoption of an action plan on organic farming and work with young farmers, and bring solutions to the preparation of a report on adaptation to climate change each year. This is just a few of the solutions and objectives that change and complements bring. As has already been said, the law is extensive and we could say that it is not only about changes and additions, but actually about a new marriage. Such a claim is also accepted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in addition to its comments on the individual articles, also states that the law is imprecise, since, in addition to the amendments to the current articles, the law is complemented by new articles. They record that all of this is reflected in the need for the adoption of a new agricultural law and this conclusion, or comments, we also join Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Although the proposal received the support of the Commission of the State Council, some concerns and reservations were also raised there. Social Democrats do not see the solutions and objectives of the proposed law as controversial and questionable, but we have the same concerns as some stakeholders who are affected by the law. We also agree with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service, but we also share the obvious that the urgency procedure was certainly not appropriate for the scope of amendments and additions. Although we have concerns and reservations about certain solutions, and although we believe that the way in which the marriage proposal is adopted is not appropriate, we will not oppose the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Iva Dimic will be the last to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are also adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Law, as has already been heard today, to adapt the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy. The reform of the common agricultural policy is of utmost importance for Slovenian agriculture and will begin in 2023. Slovenia must draw up a strategic plan of the common agricultural policy from 2023 to 2027 in order to implement the reform of the common agricultural policy. During the new programming period, the system of controls and sanctions will be laid down in national regulations and no longer in the implementing and delegated regulations of the Commission, and it is therefore necessary to draw up a legal basis in the Agriculture Act on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may prescribe the scope of the system of controls and sanctions. During the new programming period, the obligation of beneficiaries to identify the source of co-financing is also transferred to the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy 2023-2027. The definition of agricultural activity and the agricultural economy is changed. The conditions for the replacement of the carrier are tightened, following the European Union's findings, the audit findings that in the Republic of Slovenia the carrier can be replaced in an easy manner without checking any conditions. Automatism of the transfer of rights and obligations to the new holder of the farm shall be abolished. In order to avoid the deterioration of the financial situation of farm members in the event of the death of the carrier, the applicant is said to be entitled to pay to a new carrier established in the register of agricultural holdings with the consent of the majority of persons who meet the conditions for a member of the farm in relation to the deceased carrier. The entry of an entity shall be coordinated, so said the holder entering the holding register as an agricultural holding object and entering the holding and not the agricultural holding. It is also very important in the area of food production, healthy food, safe food. Food independence is the sovereignty of the nation and a legal basis is put in place for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt an action plan for organic farming and for working with young farmers. In Novi Slovenija, we wrote in the programme that it is necessary to ensure a coherent and sustainable development of agriculture and forestry in Slovenia, with effective protection of farm and farmland, while protecting the environment. Since multifunctional and competitive agriculture contributes greatly to the future development of Slovenia, we will in particular support to entrepreneurship-oriented agricultural establishments that produce in an environmentally acceptable way and ensure sustainable development. That is why in New Slovenia – we will support the proposal of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LEGISLATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished Members, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, the rest of the present, welcome! In March 2017, the Ombudsman wrote down and pointed out the issue of guaranteed remuneration in the calculation of the remuneration or in the case of a local hospital: “We have taken the position that when the amount of guaranteed salary is used for the basic calculation of the remuneration, it is necessary to violate the right to social security. If there is no data on the basis, the salaries laid down in the employment contract as provided for in Article 137, paragraph 7, of the Act should be used as a basis. However, if it is not possible to identify you, the minimum wage will be increased.” Even then, in principle, they gave their consent to this position to both the competent insurance undertaking and the competent ministry. Probably because of the problem of a small number of people, it is a problem of 100 to 200 individuals per year, and this has not been considered a priority. The fact is, however, that the problem of a particular individual is great. In fact, if it is used in a particular individual to calculate the hospital postulates of the guaranteed salary, it must be said that in other laws this postulate no longer exists. Last time, the guaranteed salary was set at EUR 237 in 2006, while the minimum wage was EUR 521 at the time. Since then, the minimum wage has increased by 106 %, to the current € 174, while the guaranteed salary as the rest of the old system has stuck and has not changed. Therefore, in amending the law, we have proposed that for people who cannot be recalculated in any other way, a share will be used, which is 60% of the minimum wage, meaning in particular that someone who is still receiving EUR 237 at the moment would receive EUR 644 after the new one, I am talking about a gross amount. I must say that through the amendments we have been able to align our position with the positions of the competent insurance undertaking as well as the competent ministry and that the amendments on the committee responsible have been unanimously adopted. I assume that this is one of the laws that can receive unanimous support in the National Assembly, for which you allow me to thank you in advance. And have a good day!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mag. Franz Vindišar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health, please, you have the floor. But if you'll excuse me, we'll go our separate ways. I'm sorry. I missed this paragraph. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, to present the report of the committee which considered the draft law as the working body of the mother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. At its 69th emergency meeting, the Health Committee considered the draft Law amending the Health and Health Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Group of Members and Members. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was provided by Dejan Židan. He pointed out that the purpose of the draft law was to amend the seventh paragraph of Article 31 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which used guaranteed salaries as a basis for the payment of the monetary compensation. The draft law thus redefines the minimum amount of monetary compensation for the absence of an insured person, amounting to 60 per cent of the minimum wage. Representative of the Ministry of Health State Secretary mag. France Výndišar stressed that the Government does not object to the content of the bill, since it notes that the Institute is a guaranteed remuneration institution, taking into account legislation in other areas, an institution which has been maintained in legislation only in that law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legislative technical aspect and had commented on Article 1 which had been taken into account in essence identical amendments tabled by the opposition and coalition groups. Representative of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Mags. Peter Požun pointed out that the Commission supports and notes that the applicant pursues the objective of ensuring higher social security for insured persons who use the guaranteed salary as a basis for the payment of the allowance for the absence of a hospital. Support was expressed for the proposed law and the amendments tabled. The Committee has adopted amendments to coalition parties, as amendments to so-called opposition parties have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Now I'm really giving the word "magic." France Vindisar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, to present the Government's opening explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As regards the proposed amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, the Government notes that the institution of guaranteed wages is preserved only in this law and therefore the proposed application of the Institute of Minimum Wage is not opposed. In its opinion on the draft law, she pointed out that it is of utmost importance in the text of the bill to maintain a provision allowing for a lower payment of compensation than 60 per cent of the minimum wage for independent debtors who pay contributions from the base, which is less than 60 per cent of the minimum wage. Since the proposal for a new law would entail additional financial burdens for the health treasury and changes in the implementation of the accounts in practice, the Government agreed with the amendments to the CFSP, which were then adopted at the 69th urgent meeting of the Health Committee. The amendment to Article 1 has reformulated the text of the Article in a way that will be more specific and thus clearer for implementation in practice. The amendment to the remaining Article, however, provided for a transitional period by which the amendment of the law would apply in the calculation of the refund from the first day of the month following the month in which the law was applied. In this way, the stakeholders, notably the CFSP and employers, will be able to adjust the accounts in accordance with the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, Mr Branko Simonovic will take the floor and present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The right to compensation for long-term hospital absence is governed by the Health and Health Insurance Act. This provides, inter alia, for the minimum amount of cash compensation for hospital compensation, which should not be less than the guaranteed salary under the current law. Since 2006, the guaranteed salary has no longer been aligned with the increase in living costs and is still around €238. During this period, the minimum wage, which amounted to EUR 522 in 2006, increased to EUR 24 per thousand in coordination. The problem is that the institution of guaranteed wages, which is no longer used elsewhere, has never been fully abolished and has, as such, been preserved in the law in question. The aim of the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is currently under consideration in the context of the reduced procedure, is therefore to amend Article 31, paragraph 7, of this Act, by redefining the minimum amount of monetary compensation for the absence of a sickness belonging to an insured person, amounting to 60% of the minimum wage. The proposed amendment would use the minimum wage and no longer the guaranteed salary as a basis for the payment of the monetary compensation, which would contribute to higher social security. The Ombudsman also took the view that it was a violation of the right to social security, namely in 2017. The anomaly was also highlighted by the 2016 Supreme Labour and Social Court judgment. The Court held that the calculation of the basic remuneration on the basis of the guaranteed salary was contrary to material law. The Court’s decision was subsequently subject to an audit. The Supreme Court has concluded that the Institute of Guarantee Wages has never been fully abolished and is therefore admissible as such. The proposed solutions, which are now on our benches, of course, cannot be opposed and necessary, but the original text of the law contained some shortcomings that were overcome by the amendments adopted to the treatment on the home labour body. Thus, the adopted supplement retains a provision allowing for a lower payment of the remuneration than 60% of the remuneration for independent debtors who pay contributions from a base lower than that amount. In addition, a transitional provision has been introduced with the amendments to allow the adaptation of information systems to the ZZS, employers, accounting houses and Spot. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to Article 31 of the current law is necessary and meaningful and we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Dušan Šiško, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The applicant wanted to ensure higher social security for insured persons who benefit from the guaranteed salary as a basis for the benefit of the allowance for the absence of a hospital. The guaranteed salary is an institute that is surviving. It is an institute from another period, although this term is still used among people and is known. However, it is legally replaced, as in 2006 the Law on the establishment of a minimum wage had entered into force, replacing the guaranteed wage institution with the minimum wage institution. The Health and Health Insurance Act is thus the only law that still refers to the guaranteed salary, wherever else, the minimum wage applies. Although in both cases it is a minimum of rights, the amount of the guaranteed salary is slightly less than EUR 238 and the amount of the minimum wage is little more than EUR 1000. According to the level of the amount, an important difference is for the insurer whose right is currently linked to the standard of guaranteed wages. Since 2006, the Health and Health Insurance Act has changed eight times since the establishment of the Minimum Wage Institute. Any job was already preparing a new law, and she knew that there was an institute in the marriage that was from another time, and she did nothing about it. Of course, because of such irresponsible behaviour, all the novelties that have been proposed have been suffered exclusively by the insured. And not only that, they suffered injustice with the help of the court. We have a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2017, which defended the guaranteed salary and thus changed the decision of the higher court, which decided that the minimum wage law was intended to compensate the institution of the guaranteed salary. Thus, the higher court acted justly and justly when the law interpreted it for the purpose and not strictly according to language. Such a position should also be adopted by the Supreme Court, but it has decided on a pure legal positive once again in the second case in 2019. As a result of such decisions, there is no legal certainty in our country and people are losing confidence in justice. Since this is the decision of the highest court in our country, these two specific persons who have been wronged in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia do not have any legal leverage in the specific proceedings to remedy their injustice. This is a criminal trial. The change was necessary mainly because the insured would have higher social security, as it is obvious that this cannot be achieved in the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! The new law pursues the objective of ensuring greater social security for insured persons who have used guaranteed salaries as a basis for the assessment of the allowance for the absence of a hospital. It is thus laid down that the compensation for temporary absence from work may not be less than 60 % of the minimum wage and not higher than the salary that the insured person would have received if he had worked. In fact, this abolishes the institution of guaranteed wages, which is obsolete and no longer in line with the real situation. The guaranteed payment has ceased to rise since 2006 due to the non-use of the Institute itself and still relies on poor 240 euros. However, the minimum wage has risen substantially since then. For this reason, it is not fair for some 130 insured persons to use the guaranteed wage institution, which is significantly lower than the minimum wage amount, as a basis for payment of compensation due to the absence of a hospital. This is particularly relevant in the fact that this base is not applicable in other legislation since 2012 when the last pension reform was adopted. The Health and Health Insurance Act is thus the only remaining law in which that institution is still used as a reference for determining individual health insurance rights. The broad support for the bill's proposal at the parent's working body's meeting suggests that the bill will also receive high support today, which makes us satisfied in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. While it would be much better to discuss and decide on the full renewal of the health insurance and healthcare system on our behalf today, it is pointless, on the other hand, to wait for these solutions or, in the meantime, not to address such substantive shortcomings that are ahead of us today. The financial cost is a good EUR 500 000 and we understand that the Health Insurance Office is a burden, but it is not our assessment that it creates an unsustainable financial situation that cannot be borne. Of course, in a relatively short period of time, policy will also have to say something about the sustainability of the health treasury in the medium and long term. Some amendments were also adopted by the Government or coalition at the meeting of the parent working body, which will allow for better implementation of the proposed solutions. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we have already supported the bill by contributing our signatures to the parliamentary procedure and, of course, we will support it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Nicely greeted! This proposal does not require much discussion, since it is simply a matter of redefining the minimum amount of cash compensation for the absence of a hospital belonging to a insured person of 60% of the minimum wage. We have signed the new law in LMŠ with pleasure, making this solution at least a little easier for 150 people in Slovenia. At first glance, it is a small step, a measure that is concerned, as we have already said, about 150 people, but the impact of this amendment is not negligible. For each of these individuals, this means a great deal. At least it makes the issue of social security easier for them. This situation is not because of your choice but because of your illness. And if we consider our Constitution, which states that we are a social state, today the vote should not be any question at all. The Health Insurance and Health Act is the only law that uses the guaranteed wage institution to determine the amount of the cash compensation. In all other laws, this institution has replaced the Institute of Minimum Wages, which has been aligned with the increase in living costs since 2006 of 521,83 euros to 1024,24 euros. Contrary to the guaranteed salary, which last increased in 2016, 16 years ago, to 237.73 euros and remains at the same height to date. This is an entirely inadequate legal regime, which in fact constitutes a violation of the right to social security. For people who are already in trouble because of their health, at least we have to try to ease another crisis. The question is whether they'll be able to survive with a refund. The guaranteed salary, which represents the minimum compensation for the absence of a hospital, has not been harmonised for 16 years and still amounts to a good EUR 237, much less than the minimum cost of living. It is therefore time for the current and, above all, inadequate legal arrangements to finally be abolished. We'll be in LMSH absolutely for.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković is next. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Social Democrats will be supporting the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which introduces a new lower limit for minimum hospital payments. The minimum hospital will thus no longer be set with a guaranteed salary, but will be set at 60% of the minimum wage. Some 100 to 150 people will benefit from this change at the annual level, thus providing them with greater social security at the time of their absence from work. In Slovenia, the guaranteed salary no longer exists, since it has long been compensated by the minimum wage. To date, it has only been used as a relic of the past as the lowest basis for calculating the hospital due to absence from work. As a result, the guaranteed salary was last aligned with the increase in living costs 16 years ago, that is to say in 2006. The use of the guaranteed salary, as the lower limits for the minimum amount of compensation, does not constitute a legal void, as decided by the Supreme Court in two judgments, but constitutes a well-established and inadequate legal regime which constitutes infringements of social rights, as the amount of the guaranteed salary is no longer aligned with the increase in living costs as compared to the minimum wage and other social transfers since 2006. In comparison, the guaranteed salary last increased to a good EUR 237 in 2006 and remained at the same level until now. During this same period, the minimum wage, which amounted to €521 in 2006, increased to €1074 by harmonisation and amending the law. The Ombudsman has also pointed out the issue of the use of the guaranteed instead of the minimum wage in the calculation of the lowest hospital in 2017. In this case, the Ombudsman took the view that it was a violation of the right to social security when the amount of the guaranteed wage was used for the basis of the compensation. The Ombudsman pointed out that if there is no data to calculate the basis, the salaries established under the employment contract should be used as a basis. However, if it is not possible to identify this, the minimum wage should be applied. The number of people who will benefit from this change of law may be very small, but in individual years the number moves around a hundred, and in some years it reaches up to 150. The number is small, but for each individual number there is a specific person who is due to illness or injury to the hospital. With the proposed amendment of the law, we will thus strengthen solidarity with this vulnerable group of people, as we will provide them with adequate means of survival at a time when health problems prevent them from doing their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	Madam President, thank you for your word. The guaranteed salary instrument is a survivor of an instrument that no longer has a place in Slovenian legislation. In fact, the Health and Health Insurance Act is the only one that refers to this guaranteed wage at all and translates into practice in a way that sometimes few people receive substantially lower hospital benefits than they would otherwise be entitled to. The legal change that we are considering is correcting this injustice and the situation for all who receive hospital benefits on the basis of the guaranteed wage solves these very terrible situations. And this situation is terrible. The guaranteed salary was last coordinated in 2006. From then on, we know that we have succeeded in raising the minimum wage and that the cost of living that households have to deal with has increased significantly. For all these reasons, we support today's marriage change in Levica. In addition, the Health and Health Insurance Act is a carrier of some other culprits, which is suitable for the working class in this country, for example, supplementary health insurance, which should be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! Social security is based on the basic idea of solidarity. The Community avoids risks that an individual could never solve. Basic forms of solidarity include assistance and support in the inner circle, in the family, among friends, between neighbours and in private communities. All these forms of community are of paramount importance to healthy and human society. With today's amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, we are pursuing the objective of ensuring higher social security for insured persons in such a way that the minimum amount of payment for the absence of a hospital is set at 60% of the minimum wage. For insurers whose base for payment of contributions is less than 60 % of the minimum wage, the minimum monetary remuneration shall be the amount of the base under which it is insured. This group consists primarily of recipients of cash benefits, such as cash compensation for unemployment or parental benefits. The social state must be sustainable. And the social state that can act only exists if we are economically strong. We are working for a good economic environment in Novi Slovenija all the time, which is also shown in figures, as GDP has increased by as much as 8.1 percentage points. This is our concern, the functioning economy is the best social policy in our country. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. As a last resort, I see that there is no representative of the SAB Group, so we end by presenting the views of the groups of Members. [[…]] Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE VEHICLE LAW, WITHOUT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished other guests! You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act. During the period of validity of this Drivers Act, the training of drivers' candidates, additional training for drivers, medical examinations of drivers and the issuance and replacement of driving licences have shown certain shortcomings of the system, which are demonstrated by the proposed amendment and supplementation of the Drivers Act. A proposal has also been made several times during the time of the driver's valid law to transpose the provisions of Article 6(3) of Directive 2006 126/EC on driving licences, which provides that Member States may grant equivalent within their territory in such a way as to enable category B drivers to drive motor categories of colleagues A1. On several occasions, the public also called for a proposal to amend the conditions for obtaining the driving licence of category AM. The proposal for the amendment of the Drivers Act lays down the conditions for driving a category A1 motorcycle for persons who already have a category B driving licence and are not beginners, with the right to ride a motorcycle limited to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The conditions for the issue of a category A1 driver’s licence for category B drivers other than beginners shall also be laid down, and under these other conditions they shall also be subject to a driving licence outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Conditions shall be laid down for the possibility of conducting theoretical training for candidates, for the education of driving teachers, for the teachers of the regulations and for the professional management of the school also to be carried out at a distance. A legal basis shall be laid down for linking driving licence records with the record of drivers trained to drive motor vehicles for the carriage of passengers or goods by road. A legal basis shall be laid down for the electronic acquisition of data on the number of criminal points in the common register of road traffic criminal points in the process of enrolling the escort in the record of driving licences and the record of driving. A legal basis shall be laid down for the verification of the data in the driver's licence record in the issue of international driving licences. Conditions shall be laid down for the re-examination of persons who have been found physically and mentally unable to drive a motor vehicle during a medical examination or medical examination. Exceptions shall also be provided for early medical examination in the event of a removal of the code of restrictions for health reasons. Additional circumstances shall be established to prevent the replacement of a foreign driver's licence for a Slovenian driver's licence. Solutions shall also be established for cases where holders of foreign driving licences issued abroad apply for the replacement of a driver’s licence issued abroad for a Slovenian driver’s licence, and during the replacement of a driver’s licence, the driver’s licence expires. The legal basis for the preparation of the next resolution on the national road safety programme for eight years is also laid down, i.e. from 2023 to 2030. In addition, some other nomotechnical or editorial corrections to the existing law are regulated. The law therefore refers to a number of shortcomings that the existing law has had, and it also responds to changes in traffic and the needs we see on the ground. It is therefore crucial that the law allows all to have access to safety education in transport and that education for driving motorcycles becomes something normal, not something inaccessible. At the same time, we are following that traffic safety will be even better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body by the mother, and I give the floor to Mr Michael Prevc, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In its opening statement, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, stressed that the draft law lays down the conditions for obtaining a category A1 driver’s licence for persons who already have a category B driver’s licence and are not beginners. The draft law provides for two solutions, namely the conditions for persons who have a valid category B driving licence and who wish to obtain a category A1 driving licence that is not only valid in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions for persons who have a valid category B driving licence and who wish to drive motor cycles of category A1 in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Among other things, a proposal for a law lays down the legal basis for linking the record of driving licences with that of drivers trained to drive motor vehicles for the carriage of passengers or goods by road. A legal basis is also established for the electronic acquisition of data on the number of criminal points in the common register of road traffic criminal points, the registration of the escort in the record of driving licences and the record of driving and the verification of data in the record of driving licences in the issue of international driving licences. The conditions for re-examination shall also be laid down for persons who have been found physically and mentally incapable of riding a motorcycle during a medical examination or medical examination. In a short discussion, support was expressed from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for the draft law and in particular for the amendment of the conditions for obtaining the A1 and AM categories of driving licences. However, a question was raised from the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group on why their amendment to Article 21 was tabled, which would add to the existing conditions for issuing a driving licence a successful primary education. According to the Government, it is controversial and which European legislation makes this impossible. State Secretary Aleš Mihelič explained that the European Driving Licences Directive in Article 7 lays down the conditions for issuing a driving licence and that these conditions are the same in all Member States of the European Union. Consequently, the setting of additional conditions for the issue of a driving licence in the manner set out in the amendment to Article 21 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party would be contrary to Article 7 of that Directive. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted eight amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and one amendment to the SNS Group. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. As the first to receive the word, Mr Dušan Šiško. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. The number of accidents at annual level has been increasing for several years. About 17,000 accidents occur a year and 114 people died in them only last year. This should be the main reason for amending legislation, not the partial transposition of a European directive. The currently in force Drivers Act has demonstrated certain shortcomings of the system in both the training of drivers and in the implementation of health checks, which is intended to correct the proposal under consideration. Among other things, he wants to set up a condition for obtaining a driving licence. In the SNS we have been warning and giving incentives for the completion of the basic school as a condition for obtaining and conducting the driving test. We believe that the complex issues that are raised on the exam floor are beyond anyone who has not at least graduated from primary school to understand. That is why we wanted to include this condition in the proposal under consideration, and we ran into deaf ears and quite a few colleagues in this temple of democracy. Moreover, Secretary of State Aleš Mihelič has misled and explained on the Committee that Directive 2006/126/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on driving licences in Article 7 provides for the issue of driving licences, which I have before me in order to set additional conditions for the issue of driving licences, i.e. basic schooling, contrary to Article 7 of Directive 2006/126/EC, which should provide for the issue of validity and renewal of driving licences. He even stressed that it is not possible for an individual EU Member State to adapt or impose conditions otherwise. I have this directive before me, and this famous Article 7 states: "The introduction of the limitation of the time limit on the validity of new driving licences should allow for the application of the latest anti-falsification measures and medical checks or other measures imposed by the Member States to be applied periodically." So what are we talking about? I have already asked the committee to explain to me which article of the directive sets out what he was saying and misleading. On the other hand, the Directives are legal acts that require only a certain result but do not provide the means to achieve this result. But I believe it's a good idea to hear it's the directive. This Directive even provides in Article 8 that, for reasons of traffic safety, minimum requirements for the issue of a driving licence should be laid down and that standards relating to driving examinations and the granting of a driving licence should be harmonised. It is precisely because of this article that it is necessary to introduce completed primary education as a condition. I hope that when the Ministry of Infrastructure stops deceiving that our proposal will also be classified as a condition for the performance of the driving test and that this will pave the way for the necessary path, but it is clearly feared as the devil of the cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar is next. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we welcome the proposal for a law on additions and amendments to the Drivers Act, which we have been waiting for for a long time. For a long time, there has been a desire in public among drivers, especially those who would like to ride with motorcycles, for something to change in this area. As in many areas, this government has listened to people’s wishes. The law simplifies the conditions for obtaining a category A1 driver’s licence for persons who already have a category B driver’s licence and who are not beginners and who obtain a driving licence for category AM. The novelty also provides for the transposition of a European directive allowing individual countries of the European Union to introduce the conditions for obtaining an A1 licence, which has been the wish of drivers for a long time, but the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure have obviously not taken it seriously enough. Under the direction of Janez Janša and the Ministry of Infrastructure, this government has listened to and prepared changes and solutions to the extent possible and in accordance with European regulations. The applicable legislation does not lay down the conditions for obtaining a driving licence to a category of person who already has a driving licence of category B. For a long time, the management of the examinations for category AM has fallen because the examination is relatively expensive and individuals prefer to intervene on less secure vehicles which can be driven without a driving licence, e.g. moped up to 25 kilometres per hour, electric skier and so on, which they may otherwise drive without a driving licence. This law, which will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, lays down the legal basis for the training of candidates and for the education of driving teachers, regulatory teachers and long-distance driving school professionals. The law also provides that candidates wishing to take advantage of the legal option for a simplified and cheaper way must drive a motorcycle up to 125 cubic centimetres and up to 11 kilowatts of power and have found in medical examinations that they do not meet the conditions for driving motorcycles to be re-examined. In short, to narrow down and highlight the substance of the amendments to the Drivers Act. Finally, in Slovenia, as already in many European countries, anyone who has a driving licence, category B, and does not have a driver's license, will be able to perform only 6 hours of practical training in the driving school and thus obtain a valid driving licence with an A1 to 125 cubic centimetres and category AM engine, thus saving a lot of time and money. In our Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, as has already been said, unanimously support the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Sonibo Knezak. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of Parliament have received on their bench a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Drivers Act prepared by the Government or the competent Ministry. As stated in the law, during the period of validity of the Drivers Act both in the field of driver training and in the field of the implementation of health checks, certain shortcomings of the system have been demonstrated, and several times a proposal has been made to partially transpose the provisions of the European Union Directive. In particular, due to the shortcomings that have emerged during the implementation of the law and the efforts to transpose the European Union Directive into the domestic legal order, we are now adopting this law. The legislative proposal states that the basic objective of the Directive is to partially transpose the amendments to the conditions for obtaining the driving licence of category AM and to establish different legal bases for facilitating the performance of the statutory tasks. In the event of the adoption of the legislative amendments and additions proposed by the applicants, the conditions for obtaining the driving licence of category AM will change. The conditions for obtaining a category A1 driver’s licence will be laid down for persons who already have a category B driver’s licence and are not beginners. The conditions will be laid down for the possibility of training candidates for drivers and for the education of driving teachers, regulatory teachers and expert guides to distance driving schools. The law also lays down the legal basis for the electronic acquisition of data on the number of criminal points contained in the common register of road traffic criminal points, for the registration procedure of the escort in the record of driving licences and the record record of driving, lays down the conditions for the re-examination of the health check and lays down the exemption for early medical examination in the event of the removal of the restriction code for health reasons. The legislative proposal received support from the State Council Commission and the proposed legislative proposal was also agreed by representatives of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have examined the proposed solutions and the objectives of the law. We have assessed that the solutions that will be implemented by the adoption of this law are not controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc is next. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the Drivers Act seeks to remedy certain shortcomings which have been demonstrated since the entry into force of the 2017 Law in the field of training of drivers and health checks. In conjunction with the European Union Directive on driving licences, the draft law lays down the conditions for driving licences for category A1, these are motor cycles with engine capacity of up to 1250 cubic centimetres, for persons who already have a valid category B driving licence and are not beginners. The bill also provides for nicer conditions for obtaining a driving licence of category AM, which is a bicycle with a motor of up to 45 kilometres per hour. The fact is that the performance of driving examinations for this category is falling sharply because the examination is expensive and they have other alternatives that they can drive without a driving licence, such as an electric skier. In this way, the candidate for drivers of the AM category will be able to learn from the theoretical part of the training and will still have to perform the theoretical part of the driving test. Then, in the practical part of the training, he will have to do at least five hours of training and then, as before, a practical part of the driving test. The age requirement for driving a light motor vehicle not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour shall also be laid down. Thus, only a child aged 12 to 14 with a bicycle card and a person over 14 years of age can drive it in road traffic. The law also lays down the legal basis for the verification of the data in the record of driving licences required for the issue of international driving licences. The applicant for a driver or holder of a driver’s licence, which identifies the physical and mental inability to drive a motorcycle, will be able to perform a health review with the authorised health operator and not only with the health operator who has issued a medical certificate indicating that the applicant for a driver or holder of a driving licence is physically and mentally incapable of driving a motor vehicle. It is also new to stipulate that the holder of a driving licence who, prior to the entry into force of this Act, has carried out a health check to delete the restriction code for health reasons resulting in his being physically and mentally able to drive without restriction, may carry out the first subsequent renewal of the driving licence without the submission of a medical certificate of physical and mental ability to drive a motor vehicle of a particular category. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will be the last to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In practice, there have been some systemic shortcomings in the implementation of the Drivers Act, which prompted the preparation of the novel, which is now on our benches. The novelty mainly affects the training of applicants for drivers and the implementation of health checks. The proposal for a law entails a partial transposition of the driving licence directive and thus lays down the conditions for obtaining a category A1 driver’s licence if the person holds a valid category B driver’s licence and is not a beginner’s driver. At the same time, the novel changes the conditions for obtaining the driving licence AM. This also provides for more appropriate conditions for obtaining a driving licence of this category. Furthermore, conditions are laid down for the possibility of the training of candidates for drivers and for the education of driving teachers, regulatory teachers and expert guides of the driving school. A legal basis shall also be laid down for linking the record of driving licences with that of drivers trained to drive motor vehicles for the carriage of passengers or goods by road. The novelty will also allow for the integration of some other records, which is essential in modern digital society, as it brings optimisation of time and work. There is certainly still room for further improvements in the field of digitisation and in the area of the elimination of bureaucratic barriers, which will create an effective and useful system for legal and natural persons. Unfortunately, European legislation does not yet allow the submission of an electronic application for a driving licence, so the application will also have to be filed personally with the administrative unit in the future, as it is required to have its own signature. Such arrangements are common to all Member States and can only be updated by any amendment to the driving licence directive. The draft law also lays down the conditions for the re-examination of persons who have been found physically and mentally unable to drive a motor vehicle in the course of a medical examination or medical examination. However, there is an exception to early medical examination in the event that the code of restrictions is deleted for health reasons. We consider these solutions to be necessary and meaningful in the Desus Group, so we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the time frame followed by the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on protection against fire, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Janez Jacquelle, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendment to the Fire Protection Act establishes the conditions for the financing of standardised fire insurance by members of the firefighting organisation and standardised fire insurance of vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighting organisations in the performance of their tasks, whose financing was transferred to the country by means of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities from the municipalities. The bill proposes to amend the lower limit of the percentage of fire-fighting charges intended to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units, from the current 70% to 50%. At the same time, Article 5 of the Fire Tax Regulation will be amended by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by increasing the amount of the fire fee from 5 % to 9% of the basis for the calculation of the fire fee and thus providing the necessary or sufficient resources to finance standardised fire insurance and, at the same time, increased funds for local communities intended exclusively to co-finance the purchase of firefighting vehicles and firefighting and rescue equipment in firefighting units. The amendment of the third paragraph of Article 58 of the Fire Protection Act and Article 5 of the Regulation for 2022 and subsequent years constitutes a higher inflow of fire charges estimated at EUR 18 million, of which EUR 9 million will be earmarked for local communities to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units and EUR 9 million for a wider purpose, of which EUR 5.5 million for financing fire insurance. The remaining resources will be allocated by the State to finance administrative, professional, supervisory and information tasks in the field of fire protection, specific forms of fire protection and fire protection education, scientific research in the field of fire protection, fire protection activities where they are provided in the public interest by the State, equipment co-financing, training and operation of operational firefighting units of wider importance. The proposal to amend Article 58, paragraph 3, of the Fire Protection Act will, at the same time as Article 5 of the Regulation, reduce the cost of financing a fire insurance of EUR 5.5 million to local communities from the current EUR 6.3 million to EUR 9 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a working mother body and I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Sam Bevk, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! At its 20th meeting, on 2 March 2022, the Defence Committee considered a proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act, which was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government. At the 127th meeting on 21 January 2022, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Defence, the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the Office of the President of the Republic and the Cabinet of the President of the Government participated in the meeting of the Committee. The deadline for making amendments expired on Thursday, 24 February 2022. However, no amendments were tabled in the course of business. Representative of the proposer, Mag. In a supplementary explanation, Janez Žakelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, explained that the proposed amendment to the Fire Protection Act established the conditions for financing standardised fire insurance, members of the firefighting organisation and the standardised fire insurance of vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighting organisations in carrying out their tasks, whose financing was transferred to the country by means of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities from the Communities. The proposed law proposes, according to the State Secretary, to amend the lower limit of the percentage of fire-fighting equipment intended to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units from the current 70% to 50%. At the same time, Article 5 of the Fire Tax Regulation will be amended by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by increasing the amount of the fire tax from 5% to 9% of the basis for the calculation of the fire tax. This will provide the necessary or sufficient resources to finance standardised fire insurance and, at the same time, higher funds for local communities intended exclusively to co-finance the purchase of firefighting vehicles and firefighting and rescue equipment in firefighting units. The representative of the Law and Law Service, Lenča Arko Fabjan, said that the proposed amendment to the law, which would be enforced 15 days after the publication of the Official Journal, would reduce the amount of the annual revenues of the fire fee for which the intended consumption is determined. This does not reflect the impact of this change, for example in terms of medium-term programmes and annual plans, on the protection against natural and other disasters of local communities, as explained or proposed legislative change to be implemented within a rounded annual period already in progress. Given that the question is whether a change may interfere with the expected rights of addressees who have been the basis for regulating their conduct and whether this amendment respects the principle of trust in law as one of the constitutional principles of the rule of law. In doing so, it is undeniable that the scope of the rights laid down by the law can also be reduced, but only with the validity to date. However, the State Adviser and the President of the State Council Commission for State Administration, Rajko Fajt, said that the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements had expressed support for the increase of funds for local communities in the field of firefighting, thereby increasing the financial resources for the purchase of protective and rescue firefighting equipment and the establishment of standardised fire insurance to be covered by the State under the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities. In the debate, the majority of the members of the committee supported the bill. In addition, they wondered how the insurance would feel about the rise in the fire charges, as the fire fee was paid from premiums for fire insurance. No amendments were tabled to the bill. As no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Defence Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the proposed Act amending the Fire Protection Act, the reduced procedure, be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. The first one gets the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day again! Today we are considering the amendment of the Fire Protection Act, which will create the conditions for financing standardised fire insurance for firefighters and standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighters in the performance of their duties and whose funding has been transferred to the country by means of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities. With a view to implementing the provisions of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, it is proposed to amend the lower limit of the percentage of fire-fighting assets intended to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units with the current 70% at the future 50%. At the same time, the Government is also expected to amend the Fire Tax Regulation by increasing the amount of the fire fee from 5 % to 9% of the basis for the calculation of the fire fee, providing the necessary or sufficient resources to finance standardised fire insurance and increasing funds for local communities intended exclusively to co-finance the purchase of firefighting vehicles and firefighting and rescue equipment in firefighting units. This amendment to the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Tax Regulation for 2022 and beyond amounts to a higher inflow of fire charges, estimated at €18 million, of which €9 million will be allocated to local communities to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting equipment and fire-fighting vehicles and €9 million for a wider purpose, of which €5.5 million is to finance fire insurance. The remaining resources will be allocated by the State to finance administrative, professional, supervisory and information tasks in the field of fire protection, for specific forms of education, for fire protection and firefighting, for scientific research in the field of fire protection and for the training and operation of operational firefighting units of wider importance. With the proposed amendments to the legislation, we agree in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that, according to our calculations, the cost of financing fire insurance will be reduced by more than €5 million from €6 million to €9 million. Although we have nearly 50,000 volunteer and professional firefighters in our country who perform up to 10,000 interventions each year. Firefighters and firefighters are truly indispensable and, as a rule, always the first on the scene of all accidents, so we perceive them as heroes and enjoy a special city and a high trust between us. Their common role in ensuring collective security at the time of the epidemic was also invaluable. Non-aligned Members are constantly working to improve the situation in the field of firefighting, including the improvement of the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. We also believe that our common objective should be to provide a suitable legal framework that will provide safe conditions for firefighters' work and sufficient funding for their work, quality equipment and appropriate intervention vehicles. An important step in this direction is also the amendment of the Fire Protection Act under consideration today, which is why, of course, the unrelated Members will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The views of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Your Honor! In opening, I must say that we will unanimously support the proposal of the SDS in the SDS Group. Since sufficient arguments have already been put forward by the Government, why the amendment of the law, I will reiterate in the position of the Group of Members the key arguments why this law has been amended. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act with a view to establishing, with the proposed amendment, the conditions for the financing of standardised fire insurance for members of the firefighters' organisation and the standardised fire insurance for vehicles of equipment and facilities used by firefighters' organisations in carrying out their tasks, the financing of which was transferred from municipalities to the State by means of the Law on the Financial Discharge of municipalities. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities, adopted in December 2020, complemented, inter alia, the Firearms Act, Article 8, which provides that the State provides for the provision of funds for standardised fire insurance for members of a firefighter's organisation and part of the funds for standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighters' organisations in the performance of their duties. The first paragraph of Article 59 of the Fire Protection Act, which now provides for the provision of funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the standardised fire insurance of members of the firefighting organisation and part of the funds for standardised fire insurance of vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighting organisations in the performance of their duties, has also been supplemented. However, the second paragraph of Article 59 provides that funds for these purposes shall also be provided from the Fire Fund. It is proposed to amend the lower limit of the percentage of fire-tax assets intended to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units from the current 70 per cent to 50 per cent. At the same time, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 5 of the Fire Tax Regulation, hereinafter referred to as the Regulation, will be amended by increasing the amount of the fire charge from 5 per cent to 9 per cent of the basis for the calculation of the fire fee and will provide the necessary or sufficient resources to finance standardised fire insurance and, at the same time, higher funds for local communities intended solely to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units. The amendment of Article 58(3) of the ZVOZ and Article 5 of the Fire Tax Regulation for 2022 and beyond amounts to a higher inflow of fire charges, estimated at EUR 18 million, of which EUR 9 million will be allocated to local communities to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units, and EUR 9 million for a wider purpose, of which EUR 5.5 million for financing fire-fighting insurance, financing of standardised state-run insurance. This applies to all firefighters’ organisations or to the public service as a whole, both voluntary and professional firefighters. The remaining resources will be earmarked by the State to finance administrative, professional, supervisory and information tasks in the field of fire protection. With the amendment of the proposal of Article 58(3) of the ZVPoz, while amending Article 5 of the Fire Safety Regulation, the cost of financing fire insurance of EUR 5.5 million to local communities will increase from EUR 6.3 million to EUR 9 million. As I said in the introduction, from all the above arguments, we will unanimously support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Gregor Židan. He will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	Dear Vice-President, Government representatives, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Just before the elections, the current government in the field of firefighting is preparing two laws, which we now accept as a running lane in the National Assembly, even though at least in my opinion the competent ministry had enough time to submit the proposed solutions to the National Assembly for consideration and reception last year. The new Fire Protection Act intervenes in a small part of the 60- and slightly more Member Fire Protection Act, which was adopted in 1993 and has been in force for 20 years from the 2001 amendment of the Law, and part of the budget resources which cannot be less than 70 per cent of the estimated annual revenues of the fire-fighting unit are intended exclusively to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units. From these dedicated budgetary resources, the equipment, training and operation of operational firefighting units is also co-financed, co-financed the operation and equipment of other firefighting units, co-financed research in the field of fire protection. This appropriation is also intended to cover education and training in the field of fire prevention and after the adoption of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities for standardised fire insurance of members of the firefighting organisation and part of the funds for standardised fire insurance of vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighting organisations in the performance of their tasks. In short, the percentage of the earmarked budget for fire safety for the development of firefighting at local level is falling from 70 per cent to 50 per cent. On the basis of data for 2021, the government estimated that the amount of the fire charge would be around EUR 9 million and that a country with a 30 % stake of approximately EUR 2.7 million would not be able to provide sufficient funds for standardised fire insurance for firefighters and parts of the funds for standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities used by fire extinguishers. That's why this percentage is equal to 50 to 50. At the same time, the applicant submits that it will obtain this manna of funds by means of a regulation by increasing the amount of the fire fee from 5 per cent to 9 per cent of the basis for the calculation of the fire fee, thereby providing additional means to meet the legal obligations. And it was precisely with the above-mentioned increase of 4 per cent of the members of the home labour body that we did not receive an answer as to how this would affect the insured. For the mentioned fire fee is paid from premium insurance for the risk of fire. Unfortunately, the representatives of the applicant did not have this information. Notwithstanding the aforementioned Social Democrats, the proposed amendment to the Fire Protection Act will not be opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be moved by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats support all efforts that increase the effectiveness of responding to natural and other disasters. We believe that the country must guide and support the development of as balanced as possible of various voluntary organisations and societies in the field of protection and rescue, as well as their most balanced presence throughout the country. The Fire Protection Act proposes to amend the percentage of fire-fighting charges intended to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units from the current 70 per cent to 50 per cent. At the same time, the Government will amend the Fire Tax Regulation by increasing the amount of the fire tax from 5 per cent to 9 per cent of the basis for the calculation of the fire tax. The current coalition has already adopted in the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities in this Chamber that the standardised fire insurance of firefighters, vehicles, equipment and facilities are covered by the State budget and therefore a lower percentage of fire-fighting charges will be provided for solely for the co-financing of the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units, so that the difference of funds, approximately 20 per cent, can be used to pay standardised insurance. In 2021, the amount of fire fund funds was around €9 million, which means that local communities received €6.3 million and the country received €2.7 million for wider societal tasks. The funding required for standardised fire insurance for firefighters, vehicles, equipment and firefighters organisations is estimated at EUR 5 and a half million, which means that the current share is not sufficient for them. Both of these changes are expected to increase to €18 million, of which €9 million will be allocated to local communities. It is said to have increased to €18 million to co-finance the purchase of fire vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units and not least €9 million for a broader purpose at national level, of which €5 and a half million for the financing of fire insurance. Christian Democrats believe that both changes will provide sufficient funding for standardised fire insurance and increase funds for local communities to co-finance the purchase of firefighting vehicles and firefighting and rescue equipment in firefighting units. The parliamentary group will therefore unanimously support the proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! The recently adopted Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities has transferred the obligation to finance fire insurance from the municipality to the country. The financing of state insurance shall apply to all firefighting organisations, both to volunteers and to firefighters. The financial resources shall be provided from the Special Fire Fund in which insurance undertakings pay 20 per cent of the insurance premiums for fire safety received. The funds collected in the Fire Fund are now distributed by means of 70 per cent of funding to municipalities to co-finance the purchase of vehicles and equipment and 30 per cent to specific programmes at national level. The Fund has raised 9 million funds, of which 5 and a half million are to be allocated to cover insurance costs, making it clear that the Fund will not be able to maintain today's funding method. The law therefore proposes a new funding ratio from the Fire Fund. According to the new government, 50 per cent will receive co-financing for the purchase of equipment instead of the 70 per cent so far, while the government will also raise the fire tax for insurance companies from the current 5 per cent to 9 per cent. In 2022, the proposed changes are expected to double the Fund's funds; 50 per cent or 9 million will be allocated to municipalities to co-finance the purchase of firefighting equipment and the remaining 9 million will be allocated to the financing of fire insurance and to specific programmes at national level. We regret that the Government has not already made an appropriate calculation in the process of enacting the law, which is why the rules of the game change for this year just before the workers. However, since we do not want to allow the Government to question the financing of fire insurance because of its superficiality, we will support the law in the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we are facing the amendment of the Fire Protection Act, which lays down the conditions for financing standardised fire insurance for members of the fire organisation and standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighters organisations in the performance of their duties and whose financing was transferred to the country by means of the Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities from the Communities. The Law on the Financial Discharge of Municipalities was supplemented, inter alia, by the Firearms Act, which provides for a new provision by the State to provide funds for standardised fire insurance for members of the Firearms Organisation and vehicles, equipment and facilities. The amendment was also made by the Fire Protection Act in the part where it is stipulated that funds for these purposes are also provided from the Fire Fund and that, according to the estimated amount of fire tax assets available to the State for a wider purpose each year, and a certain percentage of the basis for the calculation of the fire fee, is not sufficient. With the amendment of the law, it is therefore proposed to amend the lower limit of the percentage of fire-fighting assets intended to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units in order to achieve the purpose of the provisions of the Law on the financial discharge of municipalities. The fire tax thus changes from the current 70 percent to 50 percent. The amount of the fire fee shall also be increased from 5 per cent to 9 per cent of the basis for the calculation of the fire fee, providing the necessary or sufficient funds to finance standardised fire insurance and increasing funds for local communities intended exclusively to co-finance the purchase of fire extinguishers and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units. Amendments to the law for 2022 and beyond amount to a higher inflow of fire charges, estimated at €18 million. Of this, €9 million will be allocated to local communities to co-finance the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units and €9 million for a wider purpose, of which €5.5 million will be used to finance fire-fighting insurance. Organized firefighting is one of the most important security systems in the field of protection and rescue or protection against natural and other disasters with its 150-year tradition. A comprehensive regulation of this area is crucial as these funds are an important source for updating firefighting equipment at local level, ensuring the appropriate operationality and efficiency of firefighting units operating public fire services. In the Group of Members, in particular, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the profession of firefighter is highly respected, whether the firefighters perform it professionally or in voluntary forms. It is this very voluntary spirit that is remarkable and amazing, since the number of these individuals is extremely large. Voluntary firefighters are not only persons participating in competitions, they are girls and boys actively preparing to intervene quickly and appropriately in the event of accidents. It is regrettable that in recent years firefighters have had to raise funds to buy new fire trucks and equipment through various fire trucks and voluntary contributions. Their needs, which are ultimately the needs of all of us, must be alerted throughout the year and constantly seek to provide new funding for them. Certain movements have already been made in this place, we hear a lot of praise, but these changes are not meant for firefighters, but for all of us who need firefighters. The basic objective of the proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act is to enable the regulation of standardised fire insurance for firefighters and standardised fire insurance for vehicles, equipment and facilities used by firefighting organisations in the performance of their duties. The equipment itself is extremely expensive and the insurance itself must be adequate. The proposed amendment to the third paragraph of Article 58 of the Fire Protection Act and Article 5 of the Fire Safety Regulation for 2022 and subsequent years would also constitute a higher inflow of fire charges, estimated at EUR 18 million, of which EUR 9 million will be allocated to local communities to co-finance the purchase of firefighting vehicles and firefighting and rescue equipment in firefighting units and EUR 9 million for a wider purpose, of which EUR 5.5 million for financing fire insurance. These funds are still extremely small, so it would also apply in the coming years to address this issue. No fire company should be fed either financially or with equipment. Regrettably, many times the flaws appear exactly in the solution. We must by no means allow this to happen, as only well-equipped firefighters can help and intervene in a safe and appropriate manner. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A nice greeting to all present, especially the government representatives! The proposal seeks to amend the percentage of funds collected from the fire fee to co-finance the purchase of fire vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units. At the same time, a change in the level of the percentage of the fire fee will change the regulation, which determines the amount of the fire fee. As the amount of the fire fee rises, of course the money will be increased. It is estimated that the funds will be allocated to the local communities for the co-financing of the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles and fire-fighting and rescue equipment in fire-fighting units and to the remaining 9 million for a wider purpose, of which EUR 5.5 million for the financing of fire-fighting insurance. It is right that more funds will be raised for the fire operation. Voluntary fire companies, especially in rural areas, are considered to be a highly interlinked community of people, although they have different interests, they are linked by solidarity and humanitarianism. People trust firefighters, and they can rely on them all the time. A lot of money is collected from voluntary contributions, even when money is raised to buy a new fire truck and equipment. Given how much a voluntary firefighter company brings to society as a whole, we believe that the State should take better care of firefighting activities. People who do this kind of work often don't even value their work financially because they take it as a mission. At least what the State can do is to provide appropriate equipment for them and to provide insurance. Firefighting has a long tradition with us, and all the indicators show that this tradition will not die out. We are very recognizable in the international environment in various firefighting competitions. Voluntary firefighting companies work enormously on their offspring, so this tradition will only be strengthened in the long run. Firefighters may be somewhat alienated from large towns, but the situation in the countryside is very different. As money is needed for every operation, money is needed here as well. The problem that we see mainly in cities is that large companies do not, in particular, decide during the fire safety week to send mail. This is a contribution of several cents, which are strictly designed to equip societies and involve young people to work in firefighting. Since the contribution to the consignment is additionally charged only five days a month, and this short period allows for the execution of the delivery deadline, we believe it would make sense for the whole month of fire safety to determine the necessary contribution to postal consignments. The government should consider raising the amount of this contribution in 2022 accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the draft law were adopted by the labour force and no amendments to the final provision were tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the word mags. Janez Zaklu, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Special Rights of Victims Act 1991 provides for special rights granted by the Republic of Slovenia to persons who, in the war for Slovenia 1991 as members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs authorities, have become disabled and have been granted the status of a military disabled person and their family members on this basis. Family members of members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs bodies who have lost their lives in a solitary war already have certain rights in the existing law and a new category is added to the proposed amendment, namely the family members of the civilian victims of the war on Slovenia. The categories are comparable because of the active resistance of residents against the JLA aggression and internal affairs authorities to the SFRJ, or because of the presence in the area of military positions of the Republic of Slovenia’s Territorial Defence or internal affairs authorities. Therefore, civilian victims must also be counted in the broader context of the fight against the aggressor. Let me remind you that the first thought of changes in the direction of the content of this law has already emerged in 2008, but so far there has been no proposal that would be relevant from a substantive and legal point of view and at the same time have a description of the financial implications. This has been done by this government with a proposal for a law that is now under consideration. The bill also allows spouses or extra-marital partners, children and parents of civilians who have died to be killed or missing for acts of violence or forcible measures by JLA or the SFRJ authorities during the period from 24 May to 18 October 1991 and has been permanently resident in the territory of today's Republic of Slovenia in order to exercise the right to flat-rate compensation. According to available data, during the war for Slovenia in 1991 there were seven civilian victims who had a permanent residence in the territory of today's Republic of Slovenia at that time. The draft law also takes into account the fact that a number of family members have already died because of the timeliness of the events and therefore gives the right to a new flat-rate compensation under this law to their heirs of the first order of succession in accordance with the rules governing inheritance. With the proposed addition, family members of civilian victims are granted flat-rate compensation at the same level and under the same conditions as family members of the victims, namely for the parents of civilian victims and for the spouses of civilian victims, or for the extra-marital partners of civilian victims who have not entered into a new marriage or extra-marital community, and for the children of civilian victims, EUR 100,000. The flat-rate compensation shall be reduced by any compensation already received, received under another law or on the basis of an out-of-court settlement. The draft law also lays down a time limit for the exercise of the right which is identical to that laid down for the other beneficiaries of the flat-rate compensation, i.e. six months after the entry into force of the amendment of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 20th regular session, on 2 March 2022, the Defence Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Special Rights of Victims Act in the War on Slovenia 1991. At the 127th meeting on 21 January 2022, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The deadline for the submission of amendments was Thursday, 24 February and no amendments were tabled within the deadline. Representative of the proposer, Mag. In his supplementary explanation, Janez Žakelj explained that the law provides for special rights granted by the Republic of Slovenia to persons who became disabled in the 1991 war as members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs authorities, and on this basis he and their family members have been recognised as military disabled. Family members of members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs bodies who have lost their lives in a solitary war already have certain rights in the existing law. In the proposed novel, a new category is added, namely the family members of the civilian victims of the war on Slovenia. The categories are comparable because of the active resistance of the people against the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army and the internal affairs authorities to the SFRY. With the proposed addition, family members of civilian victims are granted flat-rate compensation at the same level and under the same conditions as family members of the victims, namely for the parents of civilian victims and for the spouses of civilian victims, or for the extra-marital partners of civilian victims who have not entered into a new marriage or extra-marital community, and for the children of civilian victims, EUR 100,000. The written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented at the meeting of the Committee by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service of Lenča Arko Fabjan, who briefly summarized two substantive comments from the written opinion. The first refers to flat-rate compensation to the heirs of the first succession. This is essentially the difference between the heirs of the beneficiary who died after the application for flat-rate compensation had already been lodged and between the heirs of the beneficiary who died before the application was lodged. The representative also commented on the new fourth paragraph of Article 3.a. In that case, it is not clear which other compensation is reduced by this flat-rate compensation, either for general compensation under the rules of bond law or for compensation under the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. The latter compensation is a specific public right that only certain beneficiaries may require. National Councillor Rajko Fajt said that the State Council supports the proposal of the law because it assesses that it is correct and fair that the proposed law recognises the same rights to family members of civilian victims as well as to victims of the war for Slovenia. In the debate, the majority of the members of the Defence Committee supported the bill. However, as President of the Defence Committee, I was a little critical, as the Social Democrats proposed a similar solution in September last year, but unfortunately this proposal did not receive the majority support of the National Assembly. No amendments were tabled to the bill. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Defence Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991 be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Boris Doblekar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. With the Special Rights of Victims Act for Slovenia 1991, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees and provides special rights to persons who, in the 1991 war for Slovenia, as members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or of the Armed Police, defended the will of the Slovenian people to exercise independence and became disabled. Under this law, they are granted the status of a military war invalid. Family members of members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or police units who lost their lives in a solitary war also have certain rights in the existing law. The proposed novel adds a new category of persons who have lost their lives in the war, namely family members of the civilian victims of the war on Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we also protect Slovenian independence. And so we must show respect for all those who have changed their lives or taken their lives in 1991, and we cannot remain indifferent to this law and the changes proposed by the proposal. The categories of persons are comparable because of the active resistance of the population against the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army and their presence in the area of military positions of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs authorities, and therefore, of course, civilian victims can also be counted in the broader context of the fight against the aggressor. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Rights of Victims in the War on Slovenia 1991 also allows spouses or extra-marital partners, children and parents of civilians who have died to be killed or missing for acts of violence or forcible actions by JLA or internal affairs authorities to reach the SFRJ between 24 May 1991 and 18 October 1991 to exercise the right to flat-rate compensation. With the proposed amendment of the law, family members of civilian victims are granted flat-rate compensation at the same level and under the same conditions as family members of the victims, namely, for the parents of civilian victims and for the spouses of civilian victims, or for the extra-marital partners of civilian victims at the same amount of EUR 50,000 and for the children of civilian victims at the rate of EUR 100,000. This is also true of the civilian victims of the war on Slovenia for those who have lost their lives in order to live in a state of independence today. Therefore, the proposal for this law is also worthy of support. This time, we are correcting something that we have not already covered with this law. We are aware that there is no way to value any life with numbers and money, but it is right that we are in the right place at the right time to help these family members of civilian victims, just as they were prepared to help us in the fight for independence, to help our self-sustainers and also the civilian population. In the SDS, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Special Rights of the Victims of War for Slovenia Act 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! “Why me,” the young woman and the children of the fallen comrade were desperately wondering under the archer shot, which we laid in the grill on July 1991 for eternal rest at the cemetery in Slovenj Gradc. Yeah, why mine? Why ours? In the ten-day war for the independence of Slovenia, the victims fell. Too much, but there could be more. Strong resistance and negotiations for the green table have halted the ten-day war and, of course, further victims. In the war 12 Slovenian soldiers were killed, 6 police officers, 183 were wounded. The Yugoslav army also killed 22 civilians, including two Austrian journalists. In 2019, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec recalled their painful losses and stressed that giving his life for his country was the greatest thing a man could do. Even then, politics was not entirely uniform, and the nation then joined together, he recalled. Plebiscite was indeed a remarkable act of the Slovenian people and the independence of Slovenia was earned by the entire nation and not only by individuals, he stressed. In doing so, we wonder if we have done all we can for our own victims in the war. Remember the Beijing events, where the first civilian victim for the independence of Slovenia fell on 24 May 1991, this is a good month before the ten-day war of independence, which was the introduction of events to Slovenia alone. On 15 May 1991 the training or service of the military hands of the first peace-keeping Slovenian soldiers began at the Educational Centre of Territorial Defence in Pekra near Maribor and at the Igu learning centre near Ljubljana. At the time, he was restless and very tense. We Slovenians wanted to have a country of our own, and since Slovenia wanted to establish its independence, it also needed its army. The Beijing events demonstrated the determination and determination of the civilian population of Baker and the municipal leadership of Maribor to protect their sons, young recruits and defend independence. The events in the Pekras, of course, had great symbolic significance. It has shown a serious intention that Slovenia will actually do what it has accepted on plebiscite. In the war, and especially in the defense, the self-serving war against the aggressor is essential for the power, assistance and participation of the civilian population to raise morale. This was also the case during the war of independence. The independence of Slovenia in 1991 means the realization of centuries of dreams and all, including the smallest efforts, acts of individuals of intelligence, agriculture, employment, which, due to the public definition of Slovenia, were also persecuted and known or lost their lives. The proposed amendment to the law before us, and all laws that deal substantively with the same or related subject matter, remind us that this is also the way certain individuals, both military and civilian, have paid the highest possible price for Slovenia's independence, their closest relatives and friends, of course, have suffered untold sorrow and irreplaceable loss. Notwithstanding the fact that the measures proposed by the proposed amendment to the law establishing the legal basis for the payment of lump sum compensation to children, parents, spouses and extramarital partners of civilian victims who have fallen into the self-serving war represent only a symbolic gesture, the latter places civilian victims alongside both military victims and are thus recognized as a key and indispensable part of the active resistance of the population against the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army. It is therefore important that in dealing with the victims in the self-conquering war of Slovenia 1991, we treat members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the Ministry of the Interior, as civilian victims and their properties equally, as they did during the period of independence.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At the September 2021 meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed and adopted three laws regulating the area of disabled persons, victims and their relatives in the 1991 war for Slovenia. The Social Democrats supported the proposals. Among them was the amendment to the law, which now allows wartime persons with disabilities to establish the status and rights of a disabled person by the end of 2022 and that special flat-rate compensation is also due to spouses or extramarital partners, parents and children who have fallen. However, we have also proposed an amendment that the family members who died as a civilian were also killed or possibly missing because of the violent acts of the Yugoslav People's Army or the internal affairs authorities of the former SFRJ, the status of the victim of war violence and rights under the War Violence Victims Act. In view of the fact that the state has not adequately regulated their situation after 30 years for the family members of the civilian population, we felt that it would be fair for them to be entitled to flat-rate compensation. Unfortunately, our proposal has not been adopted, even because the proponent of the government has argued that the content does not belong to that law. Your Honor! So before us is the new amendment to the Special Rights of the Victims Act in the 1991 war for Slovenia, which regulates exactly what we Social Democrats have proposed already in September 2021. I repeat, what we consider to be a government proposal today was proposed last September by the Social Democrats, and you have rejected us in this house! In January 2022, the government found that in 1991 civil casualties were also in the war for Slovenia. It is estimated that some 15 children and 10 spouses and civil war victims will be entitled to special lump sums under this law. The 1991 war for Slovenia remains one of the most important periods in our long struggle and efforts for independence and the establishment of a Slovenian state, and it is therefore only right that the legal rights granted by the State to war-torn disabled, veterans and victims of the war of the Slovenian war of self-servicing war be established in accordance with the principle of justice. This is the only way to give this initial period of our state the right meaning and priceless value. The policy should also avoid any possibility of politicising the period of independence and the establishment of the Slovenian state by informing people whose lives have changed dramatically because of loss of family members or injury in the fight for Slovenia's independence that their sacrifice and efforts have not been in vain that the state has not forgotten them and that the country has not forgotten them. The Social Democrats will also support the bill's proposal to enable beneficiaries of this amendment to benefit from the compensation that is being paid by people whose lives have changed dramatically due to loss of their property or injury in the fight for Slovenia's independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides special protection in accordance with the law to war veterans and victims of war violence in the third paragraph of Article 50. One of these laws is the Special Rights of Victims Act 1991 in the War on Slovenia. In 1991, civil casualties also occurred in the period of independence and war for Slovenia, which lost their lives in the unfortunate circumstances of events related to the fight against the aggressor, the Yugoslav People's Army and the internal affairs authorities of the then SFRY. Civilian casualties occurred in places where fighting took place or where the population rebelled against the aggressor. These victims or their family members have so far not been included in the scope of the law. Family members of members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, internal affairs bodies who lost their lives during the independence events and the war on Slovenia in 1991, already have certain rights in the existing law and the proposal adds a new category, namely the family members of the civilian victims of the war on Slovenia. The bill thus allows spouses or extra-marital partners, children and parents of civilians who have died to be killed or missing because of violent acts or forced actions by JLA or internal affairs authorities during the period from 24 May 1991 to 18 October 1991 to enforce the right to flat-rate compensation. For parents, spouses, or extramarital partners of civilian victims, this is €50,000 and €100,000 for children. If the beneficiaries of the flat-rate compensation have already died, it may be enforced by their heirs of the first succession. Finally, in the New Slovenia Group, we would like to draw attention to the deadline for filing a claim for lump sum compensation, which is six months from the entry into force of the law. Next. The first Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mr Loize Peterle, writes in his writings: "The independence has connected us and we have carried it out for all, so we can celebrate it together. Independence is a value and a sacrament that goes through everything that has happened to us in history. It does not close the differences backwards, but offers a binding framework to move forward." If we truly appreciate our own freedom and independence, we must show our relatives who have lost their loved ones something most sacred for them and, above all, respect for recognition. That is why, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Special Rights of the Victims Act for Slovenia 1991.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you. Your Honor! The law is based on Article 50 of the Constitution, which provides for special protection for war veterans and victims of war violence. Recently, under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, the government has already prepared a new law, the substance of which was the legalization of lump sum compensation for children who had fallen in war, their spouses and extramarital partners and their parents. Since several beneficiaries had already died in the meantime, the law also stipulated that compensation belonged to the heirs of the first succession. The level of flat-rate compensation is set at EUR 100,000 for children and EUR 50,000 for partners and parents. The financial implications of the law were estimated at EUR 3 million. Even though the government had a negative opinion a few months ago that such a flat-rate compensation would also be granted to civilian victims of the war and their descendants in the same way, it has apparently changed its mind in the coming elections. The law also allows for the payment of lump sum compensation to the descendants of civilian victims of war. Among the civilian victims of war, the law counts all dead, killed, missing due to violent and forced actions by JLA or the internal affairs authorities of the former SFRJ between May 1991 and 18 October 1991. The period for the exercise of the right to flat-rate compensation will expire within six months of the entry into force of this Act. For this purpose, the State budget will provide an additional two million by allocation of allowances from the general budget reserve. In the SAB Group, we believe it is right to give special weight to events 30 years ago with the right to flat-rate compensation. This gives us a gift to all those who have fought for the independence of Slovenia. However, we want the law to be clear enough and not burdened by potential unconstitutionality due to unequal treatment of beneficiaries in the event of succession, and also due to a lack of clarity regarding the deduction of compensation already received. When we agree with legislation that is inconsistent, we effectively prevent those who are entitled to payment from receiving compensation. We have also witnessed many such laws, which the Constitutional Court has either held back or completely repealed and demanded their harmonisation. This means nothing good for the beneficiaries. In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Over the past two years, they have shown that with the encouragement of various actors, there can be a separation of the Slovenian people either because of measures to limit the covid-19 epidemic or the representatives of the executive branch themselves, but despite such internal separation, we are quickly linked by the pressures of others. The latest events in Ukraine have once again shown how Slovenians are a people of heart. In a few days, individuals and businesses have been activated who have on a voluntary basis arranged transport or contributed transport and relief materials to affected civilians. The struggle for independence is still well - known, and despite the fact that 30 years have passed since then, the memory is still fresh. In 1991, citizens and citizens were asked in one voice for a free and independent state. Of course, the response of the common country at the time was negative. A small country thus stood up to a huge force that then surpassed us technologically and numerically. But then one of the stronger forces in the world did not expect such resistance. In addition to the members of the Territorial Defence, in the first place were civilians who put their lives on the line and said "no" to the invader. Civilists who either logistically assisted members of the Territorial Defence or with their vehicles and tools hindered the movements of military units have also contributed to the final victory. Family members of members of the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia or internal affairs bodies already have certain rights in the existing law. However, it is right to add a new category of those who were also victims of the war for Slovenia — civilians and their family members. Civilian victims must necessarily be included in the broader context of the fight against the aggressor. This proposal will allow spouses or extra-marital partners, children and parents of civilians who have died, to be killed or missing because of violent acts or forced actions by JLA or internal affairs bodies of the SFRY at that time, in order to exercise the right to flat-rate compensation. According to these victims, only seven were fortunate, but their victims are the same as each other, so it is right that we repay their family members at least that way and show after 30 years that their sacrifice was not in vain either. In the Desus Group, we will therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Special Rights of Victims Act in the War on Slovenia 1991. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a law allowing for lump sum compensation for spouses or extramarital partners, children and parents of civilians who have died, to be abducted or missing because of the JLA's actions during the independent war. We believe that it is right for such persons to receive just satisfaction as a financial compensation. Their loss is impossible to value, but the monetary compensation for these damages is a measure of satisfaction. It is sad that such situations are regulated more than 30 years after these cases have occurred. I would like to point out that in dealing with such a problem, it is not possible to tell the legislator that he has forgotten about these people. For we believe that these victims could find just satisfaction in court as soon as certain mental pains occur. Such a situation should not be regulated in a special law, but sufficient is the legal basis provided for in the civil rules that have been in force all this time. Thus, at the time of the damage, the Bond Relations Act was in force, the Bond Code is now in force, and both laws regulated the right to monetary compensation in case of mental pain in the event of the death of a neighbor. The content of the law that we have before us is purely political, since it is a highlighted event in 1991 by the aggressor and a moral commitment by the liberator to repay the damage to all the victims. In our view, general compensation law has always allowed injured persons to seek justice in court. We see the problem in a flat-rate compensation, as it interferes with the fundamental principle of compensation law, namely the amount of compensation. Also, the 30-year period after the damage occurred is such a time when, in our view, in the large majority of the victims, mental pain has recovered, but because we are following the principle of the social state, the country will again be funding from the budget lump sums for the damage that occurred decades ago. Of course, there is a question of whether such compensations are ever obsolete or not. The matter should be dealt with in an integrated manner when the law was adopted in 1997. Any subsequent changes are the result of certain political overtures and the accumulation of political points, and they are particularly attractive. We wish that this time a novelty of the law, which regulates such a problem, is the last and that the area, who knows and who knows everything and why everything is justified by the events of the 1991 war of independence, is finally exhausted. The memory of those times should be marked by various celebrations and public holidays. The current payers in the budget should, however, cease to be burdened with all possible payments related to events in 1991. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. No amendments to the draft law have been adopted by the labour force and no amendments to the transitional and final provisions have been tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on the law of Pomurska Academic Science of the Union within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members with first-signed Ference Horváth. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposaler, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Proposers of the Law on the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union are members of the Pomeranian Parliamentary Club; Ferenc Horváth is currently chairman, Franc Jurša, Dejan Židan and I, Joseph Horvat. The Pomurska Academic-Science Union is a regional institution that brings together doctors and doctors of science of various sciences, other researchers and researchers as well as top artists and artists. The vast majority of the posthumous doctors of science live and work outside of Pomur. These trends are understandable in the light of the situation and it is not realistic to stop them. However, for the further development of Pomurje, it is very important to minimise the negative effects the region is suffering from due to the departure of top experts. One of the options is greater and more effective interaction between all the Pomurian Doctors of Science and, as a result, our greater commitment to the home region, both professionally and personally. The following objectives were set up in November 2002 by the Association of Pomurska Academic-Science Union or PAZU, which is why we are at the threshold of the 20-year-old PAZU. PAZU was set up to connect the doctors and doctors of Pomur. On my bench, colleagues and colleagues, there is only a part of the scientific debates of the members and members of the PAZU. On the website anali-pazu.si are published all the magazines. These are internationally reviewed scientific periodicals with the International Editorial Committee and open online access. Many contributions have an application value in the gloomy economy, which strongly supports the law, as well as in all the subsystems of our society. In particular, I expose the application value of the PAZU. With the Law on PAZU, the Founder will become the Republic of Slovenia, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will enforce its constitutional rights and obligations. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on PAZU is a concrete contribution to the knowledge society, with an emphasis on the Pomur statistical region. The activity of the PAZU is a very important compliment to the activities of the SAZU and in no way diminishes the national importance of the SAZU. Support for the law means a small step towards society of knowledge and a great leap for the development of Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the other representative of the proposed magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members, the representative of the Government and the others present, welcome! Yes, we have before us a law signed by all Members who are members of the House of Pomura Members. Let me give you a few reasons why we signed this law. The PAZU, which means the Pomur Academy-Science Union, does not mean the Academy, is essentially a crossroads where the highest-educated people from Pomurje meet. These are people who are always at risk of working, living, and using their energy elsewhere. Therefore, PAZU is one of the few moments that allows some people to stay and some return to Pomurje. The PAZU itself has been operating for almost 20 years. This is also because the academic, unfortunately deceased Dr. Anton Vratusha, who was also a member of the PAZU, and also some other academics who are also members of the PAZU, warned about this. The PAZU itself is functioning systematically at this point. Twice a year, the edition of the Pomeranian Horizon, the edition of the Anala twice a year, and the issue of the New Analyses, where it concerns the division into science and society, also twice a year. It shall issue the meetings of the Conferences which it organises. The PAZU itself also actively participates in development projects, which are also important for Pomurje, with other scientific research institutions in Slovenia. These are the reasons why the MPs are united in their support of this law. If you will give your vote, allow me to thank you on our behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, at its first regular meeting on 2 March 2022, discussed the proposal for a law on the Pomurska Academic and Scientific Union of PAZU submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Ference Horváth. The representatives presented the draft law and the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science and Sport presented the opinion of the Government. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. Her representative pointed out that the establishment of a new sui generis of a person of public law constituted a derogation from the legal system's solutions and, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the setting of exceptions to the system's regime was permissible in a strictly limited extent and restrictive manner, subject to fully stated factual, reasonable and justified reasons. It explained that the proposed solution is also outside the system framework for coherent regional development policy and that it causes unequal treatment of individual regions and the situation of scientists and artists in terms of providing financial opportunities for their integration and operation. It further drew attention to the duplication of tasks performed by the PAZU, the SAZU and the Engineering Academy, resulting in legal uncertainty and inconsistentity of the rule of law, and to the ambiguity and subordination of the regulation of the status and other essential issues relating to the situation of the PAZU. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. Her representative said, inter alia, that the Commission had a positive assessment of the importance of the functioning of the PAZU association, which lives with different activities in the region and in which both higher education professors and scientists operate and is widely supported by economists. There was a discussion in which members and members of the Committee considered that PAZU was a subsidiary that would enrich the scientific research area. They explained that regionalisation represents opportunities for an individual, since it is best that the institution exists where they live. In addition, sources of knowledge and economic resources must spread across Slovenia. They stressed that digitisation allows accessibility throughout Slovenia, because it is too small to concentrate good things in one place. They pointed out that Pmurje has the least higher education institutions and pastures in a less developed area in Slovenia, and that the PAZU is already working well with the SAZU. Finally, they explained that the PAZU is strongly linked to the Pomur Chamber of Economics and that it is right that, after almost 20 years, the organisation also regulates its legal status. They also gave their views and opinions to the representatives of the SAZU and the Pomeranian Economic Chamber. The Committee adopted the amendments by Mr Jožef Horvat and the proposal for amendments to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The government opinion will be presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Damir Orhovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members! On 18 January this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a written opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the Pomur Academic and Scientific Union submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members. The opinion supported the proposal and drew attention to some inconsistencies contained in the proposal and therefore suggested that the applicants examine the comments made and supplement the law accordingly. This, of course, happened; the applicants replaced the text of the law with a new text in which the opinion of the Government was taken into account. So the amendments adopted by the National Assembly's home committee also addressed the shortcomings raised by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Committee voted and also unanimously supported the law. So a proposal for a law in which applicants define tasks, membership, governance and funding arrangements for the Pomur Academic and Scientific Union is supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Željka Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law before us today on the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union should, by establishing this, aim to promote and enhance the growth of scientific sciences and their more effective integration into the scientific, cultural and economic development of the Pomur region, as well as to support and increase scientific culture among the population. If anyone, the Social Democrats are also aware of the importance of science in society and we are a clear and strong advocate of the development of Slovenia as a knowledge society and advocates of the internationalisation of knowledge and open and excellent science, which certainly contributes to this direction. That is also why we have worked hard in this mandate to adopt the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation, which was prepared during the Minister of Education of Pikala. We are also actively and resolutely advocating open and excellent science, and we are also working with amendments to the Resolution on the Scientific Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia, which we will also accept at this meeting of our National Assembly, as a society, with greater attention and a role to be given to the development of science, research and the importance of these two sectors in society because they give rise to better quality of life, prosperity and, for sure, a different attitude to environment and nature first; in short, to sustainable development. From this title, of course, we can understand the efforts of the pomur region to play a greater role in science within the regional framework. At the same time, we understand the concerns about the fragmentation of science and its institutions by regional principle and the warnings about rescue parachutes to be sought by members of the outgoing government team. The government, however, has told us today that the law supports and also rightly points to certain problems and uncertainties that the law of the law we are dealing with today can bring about. But still, it's a positive attitude towards the project. However, it is an extremely important position presented by the representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts on the home committee when he pointed out that the bill will open doors to all other regional institutions, so that their number can increase considerably, especially if this support has a systemic basis. Thus, the state is co-financed by the development of science and research in all regions in Slovenia, where this matter is just beginning, or where it has been for some time. I would say that the representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art and the Engineering Chamber, compared to the Pomeranian Academic-Scientific Union, are all-Slovenian institutions and that the tasks between the SAZU and the PAZU, if we call this institution, which we are now establishing, are largely identical, which is only partially altered by amendments that have been made to the bill. Respected, Slovenia needs excellent and open science, and in the Social Democrats we are convinced that the only way for development breakthroughs and progress in new knowledge and innovations. We will also vote accordingly in the case of this law. But when it comes to opening all other similar institutions in Slovenia, I would like to point out that for 20 years or less in Slovenia there are regional study centres on Ptuj, in Sežana, in Celje. And only for Celje would I say that from this out I also personally support this project that is here before us. Look, 3 thousand 200 students study in 46 higher-, higher-school programs, including doctoral, master's degree are in there. They are connected when this regional institute was established, and so is the other parts of Slovenia, both the municipalities, the economic, crafts and the education sector. Therefore, such proposals and projects must be absolutely supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The integration and integration of scientific and even intellectual potential is one of the key factors for faster social and economic development based on knowledge and innovation. As a region with the least higher education institutions, it therefore needs an institution that will drive towards the growth of scientific culture and the promotion of the further scientific, cultural and economic development of the Pomur region. Investing in knowledge is always a good investment, especially for less developed areas where Pmurje is still classified, where the population's education is the lowest in Slovenia. In Pomurje 20 years ago, the Association of Pomurska Academic Science Union was formed at regional level. Its purpose was to bring together individuals and individuals in the Pomur region whose academic and artistic work contributes decisively to the development of the region. The operation of the association exceeds the level of only association of individuals and has had a significant impact on the region for 20 years and therefore requires a more permanent and institutionalised form of action. The bill thus provides for the establishment of the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union or the PAZU, which will be a legal person of public law and its founder will be the Republic of Slovenia. There are already two similar examples of institutions in Slovenia: the Engineering Academy of Slovenia and the Slovenian Matica, which also imitate the proposed law and regulation of the PAZU. The Pomur Academy-Science Union will bring together top scientists and artists who are born or have permanent residence in Pomurje or in their work and conduct express their belongings to Pomurje. The election for a member of the PAZU will be a national and social recognition. Among the key tasks of the PAZU will be to cooperate in the design of regional and national policy research activities, artistic creation and education, the organisation of education and research work also in cooperation with universities and other scientific research organisations, in particular in the area of development of Pomurje, cooperation in addressing general social and economic issues, addressing fundamental and applied issues of science and art and the innovation and organisation of the economy from a scientific research perspective, proposing measures to increase innovation and facilitate the transfer of research achievements to the economy. The area of operation of the PAZU will not affect the work area of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts or the Slovenian Academy of Engineering, but will be complementary with them. Today's proposal is also supported by the Pomur Chamber of Commerce, which is working closely with the current Association of PAZU. They highlight the outstanding support of the PAZU in the implementation of projects related to strengthening the staffing structure in Pomurje, with particular emphasis on the promotion and professional development of the deficit professions. The Pomur Chamber of Economics therefore supports the proposal of the law and considers that the PAZU is very useful and institutionally supported, as there are no public research institutions and higher education institutions in Pomour. With the establishment of the PAZU, Slovenia will receive an institution that will be qualified to prepare initiatives and evaluate the research, development and education programmes of the Pomur region, which is crucial for the development of Pomurje. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats want to encourage the development of Pomurje, so we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! The proposal on the table today is not new. Already in 2008, the Pomur Members tabled a similar proposal, which was not adopted. The aim of the law under consideration today is to set up a pomurian scientific union, based on the example of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia and the Slovenian Matrix, aimed at promoting the quality growth of scientific sciences and their more effective integration into the scientific, cultural and economic development of the Pomur region, as well as the support and increase of scientific culture among the population. The law would regulate the tasks, membership, management and financing of the PAZU, as they would call it. Among the tasks of the PAZU, it is also possible to find the establishment of institutions in the fields of education, science, research and culture in Pomurje. At the beginning of the Academy's work, according to the proposaler's assessment, a budget of EUR 100 000 per year would be required and would also be provided by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Over time, the PAZU would also be financed by membership and sponsorship funds, its status being accepted by the Assembly and the Government would give its consent only to finance. In the SAB, we understand efforts to develop individual regions in different areas, but the proposal we will vote on raises new legal issues in relation to the organisational forms of institutions already operating at national level. Nor can we pass the concerns and warnings of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. They are problematic: the law is unconstitutionally interfering with the already systematically regulated area, the question of the justification for the establishment of regional science and art institutes, as well as the designation of Unions, in particular the defined tasks of the PAZU, which are largely covered by the tasks of the SAZU and the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, which could lead to a conflict between institutions and ambiguity regarding the hierarchy of competences. The draft law does not restrict the competence of the PAZU, while at the same time making it conditional on membership with regional membership, and the proposal does not provide for basic scientific and artistic criteria for membership in the Union. Next. The establishment of the PAZU would constitute a case-by-case case which would encourage the creation of other regional institutions of this kind: Styrian, coastal and inland institutions. The proposed solution allowing the establishment of a person of public law for only one area in the Republic of Slovenia, while the remaining areas are excluded from this, is so questionable both from the legal system and from the principle of equality. It is not possible to compare national institutions with regional institutions in the same areas as institutions are established and operate at national level according to the criteria applicable to the whole country. Where a law establishes, for justified reasons, the establishment of a sui generis of a legal person of public law, the law must also clearly and comprehensively regulate its position, its status characteristics, its relationship to the founder and the financing. However, the regulation of the status and other essential issues in the draft law is subordinated, incomplete and unclear. We also point out an inadequate explanation of the articles, which mainly only summarize the text of the articles. In the SAB, we are aware of the proposalers' wishes to raise science in Pomur to a higher organisational level with systemic funding for concrete action, but there are too many substantive and legal concerns to support the law. Members of the SAB will not give support to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on the Pomur Academy-Science Union, aimed at fostering and improving the growth of scientific sciences and their more effective integration into the scientific, cultural and economic development of the Pomur region. One of the party's fundamental leaders is to cooperate for responsible social and economic development in the coming decades in order to be able to keep our young people at home and help them develop their potential. That is why in the proposal we recognised the great potential for the pomur region, which, like many others, has been neglected in many ways. The Pomurs Academy-Science Union is already operating, but as an association. During their 20 years of operation, they contributed significantly to the development of scientific thought and artistic creativity in Pomurje by promoting and promoting science and art and their activities. That is why we can agree with the proposers that a more permanent and institutionalised form of its operation is needed. PAZU is now a regional institution that brings together doctors of science of various sciences. At the same time, it motivates members to focus their work as much as possible on the progress of Pomurje, which will certainly contribute to greater visibility and thus provide a new opportunity. It is also important that the operation of the PAZU will not affect the work area of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts or the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, but will be complemented by them. Young people need the opportunity and opportunity to return to their home environment after a successful study. We need knowledge everywhere, not only in larger cities, and it would be very unfair for the people of Pomour to reject the proposal of a law supported by both the Government and the Pomura Chamber of Commerce. Especially in the light of the fact that the director of the Pomurska Chamber of Economics pointed out that the PAZU represents the only connection to universities in Maribor and Ljubljana. In particular, we have committed ourselves to maintaining a way of life that embodies Slovenian dreams. Our programming priority is for young people in their homes to get an apartment and a job, to create a family, and to develop their careers. Commitment to its home place is one of the main steps of Slovenian way of life. We cannot concentrate the main population in four major Slovenian cities. The establishment of the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union is also one of the steps to prevent the brain from escaping to larger cities and/or abroad and to return them to the home environment. In the Parliamentary Group, in particular, we will support the proposal for a law on the Pomur academic and scientific union.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Pomur Academy-Science Union is a regional institution that has been operational since 2002 and will soon celebrate 20 years of its activities. It brings together more than 180 individuals and individuals in the Pomur region whose academic and artistic work contributes decisively to the development of the region. It is therefore a long-standing merger and operation of numerous pomur scientists and artists in the region of the most northeastern, most flattest statistical region of Slovenia. Statistical data place this area from the head of Slovenian hens on the tail of the country. Rare population, negative growth, least favourable age composition of the population, high unemployment. Under the state average there are salary levels, quality of life estimates, number of students and so on. This region has never been one of the rich regions, but it has recently had better times, only that the breakthrough requires a little more innovation, and scientists and artists from this area have helped a lot. Members of the Desus Group therefore support this form of pooling of scientific experts, as we are aware of their importance for social and economic development. Whether it makes sense to formalise this merger and integration in terms of regulating its operation at the legal level was the main issue in taking our position on this proposal. Most of us think it is. The fact is that the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union is a central scientific research and educational institution, which is directly linked to the economy at local level and beyond from the very beginning. Therefore, it would also have to be institutionally supported or regulated. We are also aware of the concerns or all the criticisms presented: the establishment of a person of public law for just one area, the substantive overlap between certain tasks now performed by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts and others. But most of us have taken a positive position on the functioning of the Pomur Academy-Science Union and, as a result, a positive position on the standardisation of this association. During the course of the procedure, the draft law has received quite a substantial amendment in the direction of the comments made, so that a complementary proposal defining the form of integration, tasks, membership, management and funding for us is largely acceptable. Accordingly, the Members of the Ambassador of the Desus Group will also vote. Science and the economy always go hand in hand. Promoting science, culture and art thus always results in the promotion and growth of economic development. That is why any effort in this direction is more than a good investment, especially for the exposed region in the far northeast of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings again, especially to the Secretary of State! We support and welcome the idea of the Pomur Academic and Scientific Union in the Slovenian National Party. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and we are not aware of this. The Pomur Academy-Science Union will be a regional institution that will bring together or bring together doctors of science of various sciences. The Union could play an important role in fostering the growth of scientific culture and promoting the further scientific, cultural, economic development of the Pomur region, as well as the objective of the proposal under consideration. We must not forget that it is the integration and integration of scientific and even intellectual potential that is one of the key factors in faster social and economic development. This is certainly what the pomur region needs. At regional level, the Association of the Pomurska Academic Scientific Union has already been established. This has been a significant activity and influence in the region for 20 years. Now it is time for a step forward and for a more lasting form of its operation. If the bill is adopted, a legal regime for the Union will also be established in Slovenia, which will be comparable to similar European arrangements. With the establishment of the Union, Slovenia will thus receive an institution that will be able to prepare initiatives and evaluate the programme of research, development and education policies of the Pomur region. As has already been said, the Slovenian National Party will support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Initially, we would like to point out that Prekmurje certainly deserves a balanced and balanced development with other regions across the country. That's what our country recognized a long time ago. Although the law on development support for the Pomur region was adopted in 2010 for a limited period. Development support measures were aimed at creating new jobs and preserving existing ones, establishing development infrastructure and addressing the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the Pomur region. The need to connect in the academic and scientific field is also understandable, so at a symbolic level we give all our support to bringing together people with the highest academic addresses who feel with Pomour, as my colleague Horvat would say. On the other hand, it is essential that we look at the law in question today from a rational and not just a political and emotional point of view. The objective fact is that the main purpose of the proposed law is to re-establish the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union as a legal person of public law with all the benefits arising from it. The PAZU, as it is said briefly, now acts as a society and its public legal personality relates to funding from the State budget. In fact, this would not be wrong if the proposed regulation were truly comparable and justified and did not place the remaining regional academic space and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts as an alma mother of scientific and academic participation of national importance. We wonder if this means that each region will be able to establish its highest scientific and academic sphere. Would such regionalisation really be optimal for the scientific and academic spirit of our country of Slovenia? And it certainly does not hold, as the proposaler states, that the PAZU would act on a comparable pattern as the Slovenian queen or the Slovenian Engineering Academy. Both institutions operate in the area of the entire Slovenian space, and none of them restricts their membership on the basis of the criterion of regional ownership. Therefore, a solution that allows the establishment of only one area is questionable from a legal and legal point of view of the principle of equality. In doing so, we cannot simply take into account the emotional attachment to the pomur region. Members and Members of Parliament have a representative mandate and we are representatives of the entire people of our country. Somehow we cannot get rid of the feeling that this is about exploiting the private ambition system of some of the government's officials. This is not the right path for regionalism, especially if we consider some other unloving attempts by the current government in the area of higher education and science. Let us recall the anti-Korona legislation that has allowed the extension of accreditation to higher education institutions, which have been loyal to the largest government party, and the Constitutional Court has delayed the implementation of the law. Remember the status of transformation of the Rural Management School from private to public institutions, the granting of concessions to private institutions for the implementation of study programmes to unsuccessful or illegal members of the Management Board of the Agency for Research and the last attempt to reshape the private Faculty of Industrial Engineering Novo mesto. These are facts that speak for themselves and certainly not for the sake of the bill in question. Apparently, the ruling coalition in the field of higher education and science is easier and bolder within the public than in the private sphere. Probably because the system is more stable and financially predictable and can only benefit more from it. But such a way of thinking is basically narrow and especially harmful to the public domain. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the Pomur Academy-Science Union, unfortunately, is not a good traveller which would give rise to confidence in the functioning of the Government or coalition in this area. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, as in the introduction, I also point out at the end of our position that there is no problem in bringing together people with the highest academic addresses who feel with Pomura. This merger and cooperation have been successful for almost 30 years and no one has challenged it. The problem is that the only criterion for membership is residential and not meritocratic. Although we will not oppose the law, we cannot support it because of the dilemmas we have been exposed to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. The proposed law formalizes the integration and operation of scientists and artists whose work contributes decisively to the development of the Pomur region. The work of the regional institution, which brings together members and members, Doctors of Science of various sciences, will accelerate the development of the scientific, cultural and economic development of the Pomur region, while at the same time the functioning of the new institution will by no means diminish the importance or scope of the work of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. The law thus allows for a more equitable development of the regions, which is a general development goal of Slovenia, which in principle enjoys the consensus of the professional and other public as well as of all political parties. However, this development objective, which has long been in place in all the strategic documents, does not actually live fully, because if it were applied, all regions would be roughly equally developed. Of course it doesn't. It is not enough to record high-flying targets, it is necessary to identify problems, to turn them into challenges and to introduce the right measures. The PAZU will thus become a leading force that will add to the less developed region the hope that is the basis for creativity and perseverance in all areas, whether economic, service, agricultural, educational or artistic. In a more developed environment, Pomur students will be better able to achieve better results in national knowledge testing, students at the prom, and more will be selected for studies that match their talents. If Slovenia and Slovenia are to achieve ambitious goals both in their participation in university studies and to achieve a significant share in economic results, an appropriate proportion of the people of all generations must be included during their active work and study. The Pomurska Academic-Science Union is the starting point for new energy, which will place this wonderfully gifted region in a rapidly advancing, prosperous part of Europe. This is why we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party as it brings the objective of a more equitable development of Slovenia closer, which is in the interest of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. At its 30th meeting, on 15 February 2022, the draft law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Council of State has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law whose main purpose is to eliminate the unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court and at the same time, according to the proposaler, it is a comprehensive way of regulating the electoral dispute. They address the shortcomings in the clarity and determination of the electoral dispute procedures. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council, which requires a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members, is substantively divided into provisions governing electoral procedures relating to the list of elected representatives in the electoral body, i.e. electors, and proposals for candidates for members of the Council of State and the provisions governing the electoral dispute. In addition to that proposal, it also provides for some other minor amendments, which are either related to the modernisation of language or to the alignment of the existing provisions with the new provisions. Despite the proposal by the proposer to regulate the law governing the scope of the Council of State, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, for example, pointed out, first of all, to the certainty of a certain lack of clarity in the regulation of the active legitimacy to lodge an objection or an action. In particular, comments were made on the individual articles and a note was made of the non-conformity of the bill on the question of possible candidates with the number of candidates for members of the State Council. The government supports the proposal, but it is unusual that the Government or the competent ministry has not drawn up a legal proposal which would also regulate the matter accordingly. Given that a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members are required for the State Council Act, this bill will, of course, need to be coordinated more broadly before it is introduced, as it requires a two-thirds majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. With the proposed amendment to the State Council Act, which is proposed by the Council of State, it is intended to deal comprehensively with both the preliminary and subsequent election dispute in the State Council. In this regard, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly should not apply in the future. The State Council also sought to implement the Constitutional Court's decision by means of a proposal for a law, thus eliminating the unconstitutionalities established by the Constitutional Court, and the proposal for a law on the Internal Policy Committee and public administration and local self-government did not receive sufficient support. Among other things, the bill would deal in a comprehensive manner with the electoral dispute in the elections to the State Council, update certain terms and comply with other laws. The draft law also further regulates the electoral commission and the State Election Commission at each stage of the elections and prolongs the time for individual electoral tasks. The key solution is that the State Council will no longer decide on the contested elections, as the State Council will only become aware of the outcome of the elections. The terms of office will no longer be confirmed, and the State Election Commission will draw up an electoral outcome act, in which it will also decide on possible objections. The establishment of the Council of State will take place if at least half of the members of the Council are elected in that act. The electoral procedures relating to the proposals for candidates for a member of the Council of State shall be governed in the same manner as those for the confirmation of the lists of electors. In particular, the electoral dispute and the legal protection procedure relating to the elections of electors and, in particular, to the elections of the members of the State Council have been settled. The draft law is without prejudice to the structure of representation of interests, relations between stakeholders or the role of the State Council. In our view, the proposed solutions to the electoral dispute are, in principle, acceptablely placed here, I am thinking mainly of the previous electoral dispute. In Novi Slovenija we believe that an expert debate on the regulation of the area of electoral dispute should be opened. We are convinced that this area must be regulated so that all elections are properly and uniformly valid; both for elections to the National Assembly and the Council of State and for elections to the European Parliament and local elections. However, the specific individual elections must certainly be taken into account in individual elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	Your Honor! I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to regulate certain procedures in the elections, in particular the possibility of appeal and the extension of time limits, in order to take full account of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Regrettably, let's be direct, direct conjecture of the left side of the opposition, to which the present State Council clearly represents the thorn in the heel, so they voted against and the relevant proposals were not accepted. However, this question, which we all know well, will sooner or later require 10 consents and these matters will be settled for the whole, for all, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. This is the task that awaits us. Unfortunately, this part could not be fulfilled because an appropriate quorum enabling the adoption of this law could not be achieved because of this behaviour of the opposition. Thank you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the other hand, this is a proposal by the Republic of Slovenia for amendments to and additions to the laws on restrictive measures introduced or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Gasper Dovžan, will present the position or explanation of the Government's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! In the current situation in Ukraine, we are particularly aware of values such as peace, security, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, and of course these values are not self-evident. The international community has mechanisms through which, instead of forcefully attempting to prevent or eliminate such violations and force States at the negotiating table, in the event of those values being compromised, as evidenced by the current situation in Ukraine. One such mechanism is also restrictive measures or international sanctions that can be imposed against certain countries and other entities when such decisions are taken in international organisations of which we are members for breach of the values already mentioned. Restrictive measures are therefore an important tool of foreign policy and therefore their effective implementation is of utmost importance; hence, what is essential to preventing the already mentioned fundamental values from being jeopardised. In Slovenia, we have actually met with sanctions policy in the 1990s, when we started implementing the United Nations restrictive measures, and then adopted the first Restrictive Measures Act in the course of negotiations for entry into the European Union and then adopted the current Restrictive Measures Act in 2006. The current law has been in force for more than fifteen years and has not actually experienced any novelty at that time, since the principle of regulation has in fact proved to be appropriate, as appropriate, as confirmed in the main framework by the international evaluation received by Slovenia by the Council of Europe, which assesses countries in the implementation of restrictive measures in the field of terrorist financing and therefore the fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It should also be noted that the number of restrictive measures at international level increased significantly during the time of the entry into force of the applicable law in 2006 in the European Union, and now there are more than 40 of them. The European Union itself has significantly increased its sanctions activity and adopted a comprehensive list of restrictive measures, which have also changed according to content. In addition to standard measures such as the freezing of funds and the ban on the export of arms and the restriction of travel, other measures such as the prohibition of the export of dual-use goods, the restriction of payment services, as well as the prohibitions on the export and import of goods of a variety, in particular luxury goods and high technology, have also been introduced. The current measures we are monitoring and are taking against the Russian Federation are, in this sense, the best example of the development of restrictive measures, as these are the most complex measures we have taken so far. Because of all this complexity I am talking about, the current regulation in the law has also proved not to be effective enough. In fact, the biggest problem was that it was necessary to adapt each time the powers of individual sanctions bodies and also to impose criminal sanctions. This has, of course, led to significant delays in the implementation of sanctions themselves, the underresponsibility and also a significant administrative burden for individual departments, in particular for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the co-ordinator. Well, that's why we decided to simplify this system legally and we proposed the law you have before you. I see I've kind of overstepped my time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Mr. Secretary of State, time's up. Please, if you'll just finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Mostly to shorten it. All these problems, which I have somehow stated, we are trying to resolve in this marriage. We expect it to bring greater efficiency, faster response, better punishment for possible sanctions violations and better control, which is also a prerequisite for punishment, so that all these shortcomings are addressed. In short, he once again asks for support from the government, especially in these times when we are facing the greatest sanctions activity in modern history. We believe that this law will also make it easier for Russia to adopt and enforce similar cases, including the current sanctions policy against Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government! At its 104th meeting, on 15 February, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on secondment of persons to international civil missions and international organisations, which was forwarded to the State Assembly for consideration by the Government. The members and members received material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on International Relations and European Affairs, which supports the proposal of the law, and the proposals of the amendments of the SDS, NSI and, more specifically, Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 for amendments to the Committee with a view to aligning with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In a supplementary explanation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Ange Logar, explained that the current law defines restrictive measures as restrictions or obligations in relation to countries, territorial entities, movements of international organisations and persons. The purpose of these restrictive measures is to establish or maintain international peace and security, to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to develop or consolidate democracy and the rule of law and to achieve other objectives in accordance with international law. These objectives, however, lay down the legal acts of the United Nations, the European Union and other international institutions. They are particularly important in times of crisis when these restrictive measures become an important tool for foreign policy. To ensure international peace and security, or as a means to prevent security escalation. As has already been said, the law in force has not been amended in the 15-year period, while the number and scope of restrictive measures has increased significantly, the existing regulation at the implementation level has proved to be a major administrative burden for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At operational level, this has already affected the loss of time in the immediate implementation of the measures. Therefore, this novelty allows for greater operationality and effectiveness of the system of implementation of restrictive measures. As one of the key objectives of this novel, the Minister also highlighted the transposition of provisions on criminal sanctions. The next important area where the proposal increases efficiency is the legal definition of competent authorities to decide on applications. In conclusion, the Minister stressed that the main acquisitions of this novel are simplification and greater efficiency in the implementation of restrictive measures by immediately implementing the additions to UN sanctions lists and implementation at EU level, as well as the establishment of control over the implementation of restrictive measures and the establishment of fines for infringements of European Union legal acts. The Committee on Foreign Policy took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which drew up a written opinion on the draft law. Their comments concerned the clarity and appropriate systematicity of the provisions, the correctness of the convocations and the consistency of the arrangements with the system laws and the amendments adopted were addressed and corrected accordingly. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, the relevant point to Article 1 concerning constitutional compliance remains as regards the publication of regulations. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted all the amendments proposed and adopted them in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure. With 16 members present, 10 members or members voted in favour and the text of the bill was adopted without a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act concerning restrictive measures imposed or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and provisions adopted under international organisations has been referred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The general system-wide law regulates the areas of restrictive measures. Restrictive measures under this Act shall be restrictions or obligations in relation to countries, territorial entities, movements, international organisations and persons whose purpose is to establish or maintain international peace and security, to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to develop or consolidate democracy and the rule of law and to achieve other, in accordance with international law, consistent objectives established by the UN legal acts, the European Union and other international organisations that bind the Republic of Slovenia, or to restrictions or obligations imposed by the Republic of Slovenia for that purpose in another way, in accordance with international law or the law of the European Union. The regulation thus far has proved to be an appropriate basis for implementing restrictive measures, which has also largely been confirmed by the international evaluation of the Council of Europe committee, and the number of restrictive measures against countries and entities has increased significantly during the period of validity of the law at international level. At the time of the entry into force of the law in 2006, there were fewer than 20 sanctions regimes in the European Union, now more than 40. In addition to standard measures such as the freezing of funds, the ban on the export of arms and the restriction of travel, restrictive measures such as the prohibition on the export of dual-use goods, payment restrictions, the prohibition on the export and import of various goods and technology have also changed substantively during this period. The proposal for a law under consideration today introduces amendments and updates to the current regulation of the scope of restrictive measures, which must be in line with existing UN, European Union and other international organisations that bind Slovenia. The law will increase the administrative burden of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology as an entry point for administrative licensing procedures and assistance to supervisory authorities regarding the identification of goods with the necessary coordination with other bodies which are substantively competent for goods and for the purpose of use under restrictive measures. To this end, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposes the allocation of two new posts to this Ministry. At the same time, it proposes to allocate two additional posts to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to implement the Government's pending decision on an action plan to improve the effectiveness of the money laundering and terrorist financing system in the Republic of Slovenia. The newly employed will take care of the implementation of coordination in the field of restrictive measures. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The grave, Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine has awakened Europe, and that is the only positive thing in this story. He also showed that it is still necessary to use all the methods that we would like not to be the object of our everyday life. So are methods that represent effective defence, which constitute an form of international coercion, which means the enforcement of international law by additional means. We have before us a law that will make sanctions imposed on Russia by Europe – this time in a much sharper form than in the past years against any other country and therefore make sanctions more effective – an even more appropriate tool for the enforcement of international law. It is the only tool available to the international community to the extent that it does not reach out to the extreme, which is said to be the continuation of diplomacy with other means and which I firmly believe that no one wants it. Thus, sanctions are necessary and will obviously take a long time. In order to make their adoption faster, simpler and more effective, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up an appropriate law. This law is in the interest of international peace, it is in the interest of Slovenia, it is in our common interest and we will unanimously support it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The positions of the parliamentary group List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The amendment to the Act on restrictive measures imposed or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations is intended to update the current law adopted in 2006 and thus follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Under the current law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to initially prescribe UN and EU sanctions in sub-legislative acts, which had an impact on the longer duration of the sanctions. The sanctions could thus not have entered into force immediately. Today's novelty will reduce the time for sanctions, as no specific sub-legislative acts will be required. In addition, this will mean a lower administrative burden for the MZZ. In the event of an update of the list of persons on the sanctions lists, it will be updated immediately. It will also make the powers of the authorities more clear and more detailed in terms of the scope of sanctions and lay down fines for infringements of EU legal acts. However, the imposition of sanctions has increased at EU level twice since 2006. Let us not forget that the legislation under consideration is particularly important during the period of the adoption of sanctions and the updating of lists of persons linked to the current situation between Russia and Ukraine. There was an agreement at EU level yesterday on the adoption of the fourth set of sanctions against Russia. It is particularly important that sanctions take effect immediately in the Republic of Slovenia. This prevents potential transfers of assets of natural and legal persons linked to restrictive measures. However, in the LMŠ we also need to make specific reference to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has pointed out that sanctions can only take effect immediately if they are first published in the Official Journal of the EU or in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, the publication of acts on the website of the United Nations Security Council is not sufficient to meet the requirements of Article 154 of the Constitution of Slovenia with regard to the publication of regulations in the Republic of Slovenia, which is why we will be retained in the LMŠ in the light of public information regarding the immediate application of sanctions and the modernisation of UN sanctions when voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats will not oppose today's bill, which introduces some systemic changes in the implementation of international sanctions in Slovenia. Slovenia does not take restrictive measures alone, but, together with the other members of the European Union, as in most cases, sanctions fall solely within the competence of the European Union. The European Union thus adopts directly applicable regulations, which may also include sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council. However, Slovenia's task is to properly and effectively implement the sanctions adopted within its legal order and territory. International sanctions are generally adopted against countries, movements, international organisations or persons who violate international or humanitarian law that threaten international peace or security or massively violate human rights and fundamental freedoms for individual social groups. The aim of the sanctions adopted must be to prevent countries or organised groups that violate international legal order from any further financing of aggressive acts such as war aggression, terrorist attacks or the commission of mass violence against a minority in the country. Therefore, when the Declaration on Ukraine was adopted, we stressed our support for the sanctions adopted so far by the European Union against Putin and its circle of oligarchs, which are supported by this senseless war in Ukraine. The European Union just adopted yesterday the fourth package of sanctions against Russia, which extends the list of Russian oligarchs and businessmen associated with the Putin regime, as well as Russian companies that logistically and materially support Russian aggression against Ukraine. Moreover, sanctions also include bans on the export of luxury goods from the European Union to Russia, which directly harms the Russian elite, which benefits directly from clientele links with the current Russian authorities. We will continue to support such international sanctions, which will have the greatest impact on Putin and his supporters, who are most responsible for the Russian invasion of Ukraine, because they are the only ones who can stop this war as quickly as possible. The proposed amendments to the law are intended to simplify and improve the effectiveness of the implementation of international sanctions in Slovenia. To a large extent, the proposed amendments follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, and some amendments to the law are proposed due to past experience in the implementation of the rules in practice. Whether the proposed amendments to the law, which are of a more technical nature, will truly bring greater simplification and more effective implementation of international sanctions in Slovenia, will show time and implementation in practice. However, given the message from the economy, it would be necessary to improve the system of informing and informing Slovenian companies about changes in the list of countries, businesses and persons subject to sanctions, since Slovenian companies could not deal with them without knowledge and risk being punished for this. In particular, under-information on possible business exceptions can also lead Slovenian companies to avoid doing business with them needlessly and thereby lose potential business opportunities. It would therefore be appropriate to establish an appropriate system of information on sanctions adopted and their changes in order to avoid unnecessary complications or the loss of business opportunities in dealing with countries subject to international sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the supervision of rowing activities within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, good afternoon! Slovenia has been an associate member of the European Space Agency since 2016, allowing the development of space technology in Slovenia as well. As can be seen from the review that was presented to the National Assembly this week, the Slovenian space sector is still small, but it shows very large growth. In 2020, the first Slovenian satellites, the Nemo HD microsatellite with video and Trisat nanosatellite with innovatively minimised hardware were launched, and the next satellites are being prepared, and two are expected to be fired this year. The area of the universe is regulated internationally by treaties of which Slovenia is also a signatory. The Treaty on Space thus imposes upon States the obligation to exercise control over any space activity carried out on its territory or by its citizens. However, the Registration Convention provides that satellites must be officially entered in the Central Register of Space Objects at the United Nations and that prior entry into the National Register is required for entry into this Register. The proposal for a law on space activities governs this area in accordance with international law. In order to enable the Republic of Slovenia to exercise its obligation to control space activities, the proposal provides that space activities shall not be permitted without permission. This will be issued by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology after verification in the law of certain conditions. Since it may also involve potentially risky activities, the draft law also includes the obligation to conclude insurance. This may be reimbursed in the event of an accident for which the Republic of Slovenia would be responsible under international arrangements, and this requirement is waived for less risky space activities, such as the launch of a small satellite, which completely evaporates at the end of life in the atmosphere, as this insurance is a huge cost for the operator. In addition, the draft law sets up a commission to deal with the proposals for authorisation. It provides for cooperation with other departments to verify compliance with the conditions, provides for the possibility that the European Space Agency may request an opinion on the technical characteristics of the proposed space activity, establish procedures for modifying the transfer or revocation of the permit, as proposed by the supervisory authority for the MGRT and provide for penalties for infringement of the provisions of the law. The international obligation of the Republic of Slovenia is to maintain a national register of destroyed space objects and this law therefore establishes a register and sets out the elements to be entered in the register. The law shall also include a transitional provision which shall apply mutatis mutandis to space activities that have already been or will begin to take place within two months if the operator has already signed a contract with the launchor. After the adoption of the law, a regulation will be drawn up within two months which will specify in more detail the content, requirements, criteria and conditions for obtaining the licence and the procedure for entering the register. The Committee on the Economy approved the proposed amendments and thus changed the name of the law to Space Activities Act, supplemented the law by specifying the criteria to be taken into account in meeting the conditions and limiting the provision on control of the premises where the activity is carried out. Surveillance is needed because it is a risky activity that can cause great financial damage to the Republic of Slovenia. The existing space operators in Slovenia had no comments on the proposed provision. Thus, with respect, the development of space technologies in the world is increasingly rapid and will, of course, continue and will not stop. While the current situation in Ukraine is also a major blow to this sector, it will only increase the aspirations for autonomy and further development. In Slovenia too, businesses and research institutions have successfully integrated into this development, which puts us ahead of the fact that the area needs to be properly regulated. The bill addresses key issues and thus lays the foundations for the further development of this high-tech area, so I propose that you support the proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Vice President. At its 18th meeting, on 1 March 2022, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for a law on the control of space activities submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance of 23. 12. 2021. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the SDS, NSI and More specifically by Article 5 and Article 17 of the bill of 23. 2. 2022. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology presented the main objectives and main solutions to the draft law, as the main objective of which was to highlight the legal regulation of this area in accordance with international treaties and to regulate the area of control of space activities carried out in the territory of Slovenia or carried out by Slovenian citizens or legal persons. Among other objectives, he highlighted the arrangements for the procedure and procedure for obtaining authorisation to carry out space activities, the establishment of a national register of fired space objects and the provision of environmentally sound space activities. In the event of damage caused by space activity, he stressed the importance of determining the insurance obligation and establishing the responsibility of the space object operator. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further explained that most of the comments in the written opinion were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the debate they welcomed developments in space activities and supported the proposal for a law in most cases. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology was given the initiative to provide materials on the number of Slovenian companies operating in the field of space activities, their revenues, the number of employees and their added value. The debate raised doubts as to whether any comments from the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account by the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the possible over-control of the space operator. The debaters also drew attention to the issue of space debris and highlighted the need for an early and comprehensive international solution to this problem. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and the Law on Articles 5 and 17. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation was prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u140	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we believe that the next important difference will be between successful and less successful countries in the development of new technologies. Culture of innovation leads to the future. An innovation culture means that as a society we are open to innovation, that we support creativity, develop talents and create an environment where they can come to terms. However, new scientific, economic, or technological inventions make sense only when they serve man. The development of technology needs not only a concern for technology ethics and culture, which can only be achieved by promoting continuous education in this area, but also an appropriate regulation that must not disproportionately impede development and freedom. In Slovenia, the rapid development of the space sector was precisely due to the integration into the European Space Agency. So far, two satellites have been developed and fired. Agreements on satellite launches between operators, the European Space Agency and launch providers shall also verify compliance with international commitments, as governed by this proposal for a law. The adoption of the proposal will therefore allow Slovenian companies and institutions to operate on an equal footing in the global space field. In accordance with the Convention on International Indemnity Obligations for Damage caused by Space Aircraft, Slovenia is liable to compensation for the damage caused by its space activities to third countries. Therefore, a proposal for a law establishes control over the space activity carried out in the territory of Slovenia or by citizens of Slovenia or legal persons established in Slovenia. Nevertheless, the proposed regulation promotes the competitiveness and development of this niche industry. Christian Democrats support winning thinking and not gloomyness. We believe that we need a social culture of innovation and progress. Since Slovenia must be open to responsible innovation and forward-looking, the proposal brings urgent regulation of this area, which remains proportionate on the other hand, we will support the proposal of the Law on Space Activities in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u142	Have a nice hello to everyone again! Today we have before us the proposal for a law on space activity whose main objective is to regulate the control of space activities in the territory of Slovenia on a vessel or aircraft registered in the Republic of Slovenia and for space activities carried out by nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or legal persons established in the Republic of Slovenia. The area of space technology is currently developing in Slovenia mainly in cooperation with the European Space Agency, which Slovenia joined in 2016. The aim of this cooperation is to strengthen the Slovenian technology sector and to provide new opportunities for development and international cooperation. In a few more than five years of membership, 48 contracts have been signed with the European Space Agency by 15 Slovenian companies and institutions totalling approximately EUR 11.4 million. In the light of this cooperation, companies have developed satellites and instruments, applications for the use of satellite data for various purposes, developed specialised surveillance systems, systems for the processing of data quickly, especially for the processing and storage of large amounts of data we receive from space. They developed new materials, 3D printing and processing procedures to enable them to be used in difficult situations in space. Slovenian scientists have researched yet unknown areas of space on the basis of data from the European Space Agency. The bill before us today, with a view to the smooth implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, stipulates that space activities are not allowed to be carried out without permission. This will be issued by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology after verification of the conditions laid down in the law. Since this may also involve potentially risky activities, the draft law on space activities also includes the obligation to conclude insurance. In addition, the bill establishes a commission to deal with the requirements, establishes procedures for amending, transferring or withdrawing the authorisation, as the supervisory authority proposes to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and provides for penalties for violating the provisions of the law. The draft law also provides for cooperation with other departments to verify that the conditions for obtaining authorisation are met. It also foresees the possibility for an opinion on the technical characteristics of the proposed space activity to be requested by the European Space Agency. Since it is the international obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to maintain a national register of destroyed space objects, the law also establishes such a register and sets out the elements to be entered in the register. The European space industry is strong and competitive and is a source of new jobs and business opportunities for entrepreneurs. According to the European Parliament, already more than 10 per cent of the European Union's GDP is based on space-related services. Europe as a whole is an important global actor in space technology. It has a strong and competitive industry, for example, for the production of satellites and carrier rockets and related services or operations. Even in terms of the digital economy, the universe has an increasing role to play. Space data can help strengthen industry's leading role in the area of Internet and automated driving and allow more accurate monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of climate action. In the Group, we are particularly aware of the importance of the space industry for our future and the importance of a comprehensive regulation of space activities in Slovenia, so we will support the proposal for a law on space activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! From 2010 to the end of 2020, the Republic of Slovenia, in its relation to the European Space Agency, moved from the status of a participating country to the status of an associated member. However, new space technology activities have been defined by signing an upgraded association agreement. This decade has seen the development of infrastructure and knowledge for the economic efficiency of the development and use of space technologies. Their great potential for achieving socio-economic and environmental benefits in a wide range of applications has been demonstrated; from agriculture, forestry, urbanism, maritime affairs, security and ecology to integrated management of natural energy resources and observation of natural disasters. In September 2020, the first two Slovenian satellites were sent into space into Earth orbit at approximately 500 kilometres. This is undoubtedly proof that we have space facility managers who have the necessary expertise, technical knowledge and sufficient financial resources to carry out this activity. The legislative proposal that we are considering today is, in fact, the establishment of a basic regulatory framework for the current situation in this sector of the economy, and in particular the need for future regulation of a forward-looking, fast-growing sector. A permit will have to be obtained prior to the launch of space activities. The authorisation will be issued if the technical and financial conditions are met. Before launching a space facility into space, the operator will have to conclude damage insurance that can be caused by space activity at least EUR 60 million for a damage event during the course of the operation. This proved to be the biggest problem during the drafting phase of the marriage text, since it is in fact a very important limiting factor or a high entry threshold, which was then somewhat relaxed by the introduction of an exemption from the insurance requirement when it comes to a small risk activity. Opinions on the fulfilment of the conditions will be obtained by the Ministry responsible for technology from the competent authorities of the six ministries and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, and the European Space Agency will also be asked for an opinion when assessing the fulfilment of the technical conditions. The Minister will set up a commission to deal with licence proposals and, on the basis of the opinion of this Commission, the Minister will issue a permit or reject a proposal from the administrator. A national register of fired space objects will be established, which will serve as the basis for registration with the United Nations. However, conditions shall also be laid down for the operator to inform the Ministry of the events and facts relating to the fulfilment of the conditions for the existence of an accident or danger, of the circumstances which prevent the management or operational control of a space object, or of the cessation of space activities. The Slovenian economy is developing activities and products that provide opportunities for effective integration into the markets of high technologies and for obtaining references in the fields of materials and structural components, telecommunications, satellite management and automatic data processing. However, the possibility of competing in space research is not only of economic importance. It also makes it possible to deal more effectively with all major societal challenges, such as adapting to climate change, managing renewable energy, improving food supply and protecting against natural disasters. In the state budgets for this year and next year, the programmes of the European Space Agency are estimated at three million and a half million and four million and 300 thousand euros. It is realistic to expect that the expenditure needs in this area will increase significantly in the future. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law on space activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting to all present once again, especially to the representatives of the government! The title of the Proposal for a Law on the Control of Space Activities does not tell the layman much, so the content is so much more impressive. The area of space activity is increasingly important for our country as well as beyond our borders. Historically, space technology today has come a long way. In the ten years from 2010 to 2020, Slovenia has stepped up its approach to the European Space Agency, which embraces new space technology activities. At the end of 2021, she became 100 members of an important international body to regulate the field of space and thus gained access to important information regarding the laws and international regulation of this area. Our citizens will certainly want to hear more about the key trends for the future. Membership of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Space is an excellent stepping stone for the promotion and wider recognition of the Slovenian space sector. Our enterprises and institutions can thus take advantage of the opportunity to present at many events. The management of the register of space objects is important precisely because of the registration of Slovenian satellites that have already been and will be fired in the future. We believe that employees in the space sector have excellent knowledge and that their creativity and innovation are not foreign. We believe that the latter leads to the necessary changes and improvements in this area. Many Slovenians do not know or hear for the first time that Slovenia has achieved quite a few reverberating results in the last period. In 2020, for example, two of Slovenia's first satellites were launched into space, and the space sector in Slovenia is expanding rapidly and successfully as our companies focus on zero or high-tech products and services. But there is nothing without a successful cooperation with the European Space Agency and the National Aeronautics and Space Authority of the United States and other stakeholders in this area. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you, too. The views of the SDS Group will be presented by the mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u148	Chairman, thank you. Dear Secretary of State Zajc, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and all, by law appropriate, Slovenian space public! So today we are considering the proposal for a law on space activities. In 2016, by signing an association agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency, the Republic of Slovenia became an associate member of the European Space Agency. In October 2020, an enhanced association agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency, which includes new activities in the field of space technology. The integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Space Agency led to the rapid development of the space sector in Slovenia. Slovenian companies and institutions have also become active in the development of satellites and other space objects. Agreements on satellite launches between operators, ESAs and launch providers shall also verify compliance with international legal commitments, as regulated by the Space Activities Act. The adoption of the bill will therefore allow Slovenian companies and institutions to operate on an equal footing in the global space field. Let us recall that, after the Republic of Slovenia was incorporated into the European Space Agency, two domestic satellites have been launched into the Earth. This has also made Slovenia a country that has gone from star to star with its own knowledge. In order to effectively control the country's space activities, the draft law sets out the conditions under which operators are authorised to carry out space activities and establishes a register of space objects fired. One of the essential solutions to the bill is the provision of Article 4 which provides that prior to the launch of space activities a permit must be obtained. The procedure shall be conducted as an administrative matter and the authorisation shall be issued if the conditions laid down in Article 5 are met, ensuring that space activity is safe and does not cause harmful effects both on earth and in the universe itself. The objectives of the bill are: to regulate the area of space activities in accordance with the international treaties to which the Republic of Slovenia has acceded, to regulate the way and procedure for the authorisation of space activities in the Republic of Slovenia, to provide for an environmentally sound space activity that will not increase the amount of space waste, to arrange for the transfer and withdrawal of the authorization granted for the exercise of space activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, to provide compulsory security for damage caused by space activities, and to establish the responsibility of the space object operator for damage caused by an space object on Earth, vessel or aircraft in the year and in the universe itself. The three coalition amendments on 1 March 2022 changed only the name of the law, as the content of the proposed law itself was appropriately supplemented. The law was first on the control of space activities and thus became the Space Activity Act, as the proposal for a law in Article 1 sets out the conditions and procedure for the authorisation of space activities and regulates the registration of space objects fired, the obligations of the operator, the liability for damage caused by space objects and the supervision of the implementation of this law. Of course, in several places, he surpassed the concept of control. In the drafting of the bill, as we have already heard today, external experts in space law and representatives of the ESE have also participated free of charge, says the European Space Agency. In addition to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, several public officials from other departments have been involved in the drafting of the law, which regulates either related areas – aviation – or they know the area as users – Arso as an example. Such a bill also means professionally completed legal material and, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will unanimously support the Space Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The views of the SD Group will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Although Slovenia does not have a space program and does not intend to send a rocket to the Moon, it is part of the Earth that surrounds one universe. Although Slovenians and Slovenians do not have their astronauts, we do have a number of companies and experts, which are an important part of the effort for human travel into space. A few years ago, Slovenia became a member of the European Space Agency. Since then, space activity has also been growing in our midst. Slovenian technology is already in space, people of Slovenian roots have already been there. The vast majority of space projects are really international efforts, including our country, our businesses and our people. Human activity in the universe has consequences for all mankind. We use things and services every day; from phones, navigations that would not be possible without space activities. Space activities cannot be regulated solely by the rules of individual countries, and the exploration and use of space therefore lays down several international conventions, whose rights and obligations apply also to the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, any national rules can only be drawn up in these Convention frameworks. The law proposed by the Government has been drafted by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, legalizing the basic principles for the control of space activities and the rules for the registration of space objects. It lays down rules for obtaining authorisations for the pursuit of space activities, and its important part is also the liability for compensation in the event of damage. It is also right that the Republic of Slovenia adopts appropriate rules for the control of activities related to exploration, use and space travel. Despite its small and limited power, it must ensure that its people and the economy are involved in the research, production and organisational chains within which this activity is carried out. The commitments we take are also important. We wish that surveillance will not stifle innovative actors in their research and work. We also warn that there are serious risks to the environment and to people's harmful effects in space activities. One of them must be the so-called space trash that comes from the excessive and uncoordinated use of the universe. In this area too, we must shoulder our responsibilities as part of mankind. We will not oppose the adoption of this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY – OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DESCRIPTION LEGISLATION WITH HEALTH FROM DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Blaž Kosorok, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Thus, certain provisions of the draft law are identical to those of the current Energy Act and some are amended or added to improve provisions based on experience in implementing the law. The basic objective of the bill is to independently regulate the distribution of heat and gas from distribution systems other than transmission systems, i.e. local isolated distribution systems, and therefore represent a natural monopoly even in the case of the sale of energy itself. The other objectives of the draft law, which are related to this basic objective, are to: to effectively ensure the rights of final customers, to protect the rights of domestic customers, to ensure the proper organisation of the heat distribution system, to ensure the effective performance of the tasks of distributors and the performance of economic public services in the public interest, to ensure adequate regulation of the prices of heat for consumers and to ensure reliable and efficient distribution and to allow for increased shares of renewable resources in the distribution of heat and gas. The proposals in the draft law seek to strike a balance between the protection of the customer in relation to the monopolistic supplier and sufficient freedom in the design of the business part of the heat distributor for economically sustainable and technically modern distribution. The law extends the possibility of selecting a municipality for market distribution as a form of implementation of the distribution of heat. The law proposes to exclude the distribution of steam from price regulation, as is already in force for remote cooling, since customers on these systems are relatively few and the bargaining power on both sides is uniform. The law also allows smaller systems to continue to determine the price of heat in accordance with the methodology and agreement of the baseline price agency. The method of regulating heat prices from remote heating systems based on expected costs and baseline prices remains the same to date. However, the draft law introduces the possibility of adding a price or tariff item to be determined by the distributor on the basis of the concessionaire’s consent. In this way, income regulation can be partially replaced and can continue to maintain uniform regulation of the costs of implementing the public service for all heat distributors, i.e. large and smaller, while allowing distributors to adjust the price of heat. The final price of heat will therefore, despite the regulation of eligible costs through the conversion of the baseline price, be able to adjust, in agreement with the concessionant, the local needs and characteristics of the energy supply, both by adding a price increase and by reducing the amount of the subsidy price. Both will be transparently displayed to the customer in the account. In parallel to the distribution of heat, the law also regulates the distribution of energy gases from local non-connected networks as the distribution system is similar due to the characteristics of distribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you, too. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 36th meeting. 2. 2022 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on heat supply from distribution systems. In a supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, pointed out that certain provisions of the bill are identical to those of the current Energy Act and some are amended or added with a view to improving provisions based on experience in the implementation of the law. The existing legislation is complemented with respect to individual content that has been shown to be poorly regulated or need to be upgraded and adapted in terms of experience and new energy objectives. He pointed out that the draft law covers, inter alia, the distribution of heat and gas from distribution systems other than transmission systems, i.e. locally isolated distribution systems and therefore represent a natural monopoly even in the case of the sale of energy itself. The proposed provisions seek to strike a balance between the protection of the customer in relation to the monopolistic supplier and sufficient freedom in the design of the business model of the heat distributor for economically sustainable and technically modern distribution. The proposal for a law thus broadens the possibility of selecting a municipality for market distribution as a form of implementation of the distribution of heat. It is proposed to exclude the distribution of steam from price regulation, as already in force for remote cooling, since customers on these systems are relatively small and the bargaining power of both sides is uniform. In addition, it provides for an increase in the criteria for mandatory regulation of the price of heat, allowing smaller systems to continue to determine the price of heat in accordance with the methodology and agreement of the Energy Agency and the baseline price. In a short discussion, the SAB Group stressed that, in the current situation, a huge increase in energy prices on the global market and a further exacerbation of the situation due to the geopolitical crisis in Eastern Europe, it is important to know that we have to take care of price-competitive energy supply on our own. Remote heat supply systems are one of the ways to provide self-sustainment and energy security, so it is right that at least cities are rapidly building thermal and remote networks and identify and attach to them all heat producers, such as those who could transmit heat as a by-product of the manufacturing process. With regard to the content of the draft law, however, a change to the criterion of when the price of heat for district heating from distribution systems should be regulated by the Levica Group, where distributors carry out an economic public service for the distribution of heat. Newly, the price will be adjusted for systems with more than 500 household customers connected. Thus far, the regulated price criterion has been applied to a system where more than 100 domestic customers are connected, and fear has been expressed that the change of criteria could be reflected in market deregulation and consequently higher prices for consumers. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted several amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you. Your Honor! The present law is another type of law, which, by removing the field regime, secession from the excessive energy law. At the time of addressing all other equivalent and equivalent proposals, we welcomed the breakdown in the SAB because the fact that the Energy Act was poorly transparent due to its substantive scope and the treatment of many areas. Secure and reliable electricity supply is the responsibility of each country and we must take care of it ourselves in Slovenia. The crisis that we are living on just now testifies to the fact that remote heating systems can be one of the ways to provide self-sustainment and energy security. It is appropriate that at least the cities are rapidly building thermal remote networks and connecting as many users as possible. They must also identify all producers of different heats, i.e. all those who could also transmit excess heat as a residue or a customer of the product of the manufacturing process to the network. In cities, it must never happen again that remote heating will not be by far the most economical, reliable and safe way of heating. This must finally become self-inflicted. We saw what happens when there's anomalies in the square. Heating and heating prices of sanitary water can increase by 300 percent. The recent call by the government to the European Union to cut off gas supplies from Russia, without offering any alternatives, raises many questions. We must not forget that the primary source of heating of a number of heat supply systems is natural gas. Should we take the invitation of the government as an invitation to accept the cold? The comparison with 10 species of croissants is more than just and worrying. We expect a regulation on the energy concepts of local communities to be drawn up on the basis of this law. The current crisis has shown that the latter are not sufficiently sophisticated and that they are mostly generic products that do not respond to the challenges of the market economy or the anomalies that occur in the market economy. If we fly the energy concepts of municipalities in the field of remote heat supply, we rarely find requirements for diversification of heating sources. We therefore want to rely on domestic resources in the SAB party, with the emphasis on wood biomass and the development of synthetic gases such as hydrogen. Remote heating is thus not only a domain of major cities, such as Maribor, but also groups of blocks can warm up, such as in smaller towns: Slovenske Bistrica, Slovenske Konjice, Zreče, Rogaška Slatina and so on. In the SAB, we firmly believe that energy security, supply and competitive pricing must be provided on our own. That is why we also promise that after the elections we will ensure the creation of a third energy pillar, which will primarily promote the use of renewable energy sources. A company with a concession to build renewable energy sources will accelerate the construction of green energy production facilities. Thus, we will remain energy-efficient, safe and independent. In the SAB Group, we believe that the law will make an important contribution to the resolution of these issues, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the supply of heat from distribution systems, which we are considering today following a reduced procedure, is another of a number of laws that are being transposed from the current Energy Act, which has been shown to be making it increasingly difficult to ensure timely transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order, and otherwise it is difficult to update large-scale matter. Since the adoption of the Energy Code, there have been some shortcomings in practice, and the time component has also changed so that, inter alia, the proposal for a law also pursues new objectives that have been established during this period. We have recently seen major and rapid changes in energy, unfortunately, mainly negative. We have already devoted a number of debates to so-called energy poverty. It has been shown how urgent it is for the country to protect vulnerable groups and actively put itself in the role of regulator. The effectiveness of ensuring the rights of final customers and protecting the rights of domestic consumers is an area that we owe special attention to. The text of the bill under consideration today is based on the current regulation of heat supply and other energy gases, while at the same time transposing into our legal order a package of EU rules on Clean Energy for All Europeans. The bill covers both the area of heat distribution and local gas networks, which have a natural monopoly and are not connected to the public pipeline network in Slovenia and cannot be operated by public gas service providers. The revised criterion extends the choice of the municipality for market distribution as a form of implementation of heat distribution. It is proposed to exclude the distribution of steam from price regulation, as already in force for remote cooling, since customers on these systems are relatively few and the bargaining power of both sides is uniform. It is further proposed to raise the criteria for mandatory regulation of the price of heat, allowing smaller systems to continue to determine the price of heat in accordance with the methodology and agreement of the Energy Agency at the baseline price. The method of regulating the price of heat from remote heating systems remains the same as before on the basis of the expected costs and the starting price, and the possibility of an addition to the price is introduced, and the tariff item determined by the distributor on the basis of the municipality’s consent. In this way, uniform regulation of the costs of carrying out an economic public service shall be maintained for all heat distributors, while at the same time allowing distributors flexibility in setting tariffs. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposed solutions and we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, distinguished secretaries of state, even though I missed you in Krk on Monday. The energy law is extensive and particularly imprecise, so the law will exclude the distribution of heat and gas from the distribution system and will be regulated as a separate law. The laws must be clear, transparent and understandable for Slovenians. The heat supply seems to us to be the right choice for urban or urban centres, such as our capital. This is a way of heating buildings, where heat is transferred from a higher source of heat to consumers, through the pipeline. Energetics Ljubljana, for example, provides more than 64 000 500 users with remote heating, which is more than welcome. We estimate that remote heating for Slovenians is comfortable, environmentally friendly, affordable, reliable and safe, while allowing easy maintenance and savings of space. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that safe and secure care for our final customers is the responsibility of our country and also of our local communities. The present energy crisis, which has hit every Slovenian deeply in his pocket, has undoubtedly demonstrated the many anomalies or vulnerabilities of our system. The law follows the principle of cost-effectiveness, the principle of promoting the integration of renewable resources into the distribution of heat and gas, the principle of consumer protection and other principles. For our citizens, it seems very important to us the fourth chapter, which sets out the obligations of the distributor in the public interest. This means, in practice, that distributors in the public interest must ensure safe and reliable long-term planning and heat and gas supply. We stress that we must also ensure that our customers are treated in a non-discriminatory manner and that domestic customers are provided urgently. The latter is justified by household consumers or vulnerable citizens who because of their wealth status, low incomes, social and housing conditions cannot provide themselves with another source of energy for heating. Such households are, in our opinion, in the present tense, quite a bit. It is also true that those individuals, families who are still in need of help, do not want to expose themselves and ask for it because it is beneath their dignity. We are pleased that the bill follows the legislative package Clean Energy for All Europeans. In the light of our customers' encouragement for efficient energy use, we expect fewer greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia, which will have a positive impact on climate change. The Slovenians will also have a beneficial impact on energy poverty, as the bill strengthens social aspects by effectively ensuring the protection of vulnerable consumers. If all goes together, the proposal of the law brings a number of necessary solutions that follow the last goals and are, in the first place, good for the welfare of the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented to France Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the secretaries, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal states that the existing legislation is poorly regulated and that it needs to be upgraded and adapted in the light of experience and new energy objectives. The law covers the distribution of heat and gas from distribution systems which are not connected to any of the transmission systems and therefore represent a natural monopoly even in the case of the sale of the energy part itself. Due to the scope of the Energy Act-1, the matter regulated by the law is becoming increasingly opaque and it is increasingly difficult to ensure timely transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order. For this reason, the legal regulation of energy, which is now covered by one law, is divided into several separate laws, following the structure of legal regulation of these contents in acts of secondary European Union law. The proposal for a law comprehensively regulates the area of gas supply from disconnected distribution systems and thus excludes the fourth part of the Energy Act-1, which regulates heat and other energy gases from completed distribution systems. Objectives: to independently regulate the distribution of heat and gas from distribution systems other than transmission systems, to establish an appropriate balance between the protection of the customer vis-à-vis the monopolistic supplier and sufficient freedom in the design of the business model of the distributor for economically sustainable and technical modern distribution from systems, the effective provision of final customers' rights, the protection of the rights of the home customers, the provision of an appropriate organisation of the heat distribution system, the effective performance of distributors' tasks and the performance of economic public services in the public interest, the provision of adequate regulation of heat prices for consumers and the provision of reliable and efficient distribution, and the possibility of increasing the share of renewable resources in the distribution of heat and gas. The proposal for a law is based on the current regulation of heat supply and other energy gases provided for in the Energy Act-1 and is therefore, for the most part, subject to the same provisions. The draft law does not provide for additional sub-legislative rules. We support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The area of heat supply, which is now independently regulated by the Proposal for a Law on heat supply from distribution systems that we have Members and Members in front of us today, is currently regulated by the EC-1. The Energy Act, EZ-1, still regulates the field of energy and transposes into the Slovenian legal order the extensive legislation of the European Union in the field of energy law. The Energy Efficiency Act has so far eliminated the energy efficiency sector from the EZ-1, which could be referred to as a top-level energy law, and the Act on the Promotion of the Use of Renewable Resources has been adopted by the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act and the scope of renewable energy use. Applicants note among the reasons for admission that due to the scope of the EZ-1, the matter regulated by the law remains increasingly opaque and it is increasingly difficult to ensure the timely transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order. For this reason, the legal regulation of energy, which is now covered by one law, is divided into several separate laws following the structure of legal regulation of these contents in the action of secondary European Union legislation. For the same reasons, if we think about it, we have already adopted two separate laws in the field of energy. The applicants noted that the basic objective of the legislative proposal is to regulate independently the distribution of heat and gas from distribution systems other than transmission systems. The objectives of the proposal also include the establishment of an appropriate balance between the protection of the customer in relation to the monopolistic supplier and the sufficient freedom to create a business model of the distributor for economically sustainable and technically modern distribution from systems other than directly or indirectly linked to transmission systems. The legislative proposal also brings objectives and solutions to ensure the effective provision of final customers' rights, the protection of the rights of domestic customers, the provision of an appropriate organisation of the heat distribution system. It will ensure the effective performance of the tasks of distributors and the performance of economic public services in the public interest, the proper regulation of heat prices for consumers and the provision of reliable and efficient distribution, and allow for an increase in the share of renewable resources in the distribution of heat and gas. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome any efforts and activities that go in the direction of legislation in various areas of the Office in a way that is transparent and understandable. As in previous cases, when certain areas of the Energy Act-1 have been independently regulated, even when the area of heat supply from distribution systems, solutions and targets is independently regulated, we will not oppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prvec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. The proposal for a law on heat supply from distribution systems is based on the current regulation of heat supply and other energy sources, and is therefore largely subject to the same provisions. The aim of the law is to ensure competitive, accessible and sustainable heat supply from non-transportable distribution systems, to enable the development of effective and competitive remote heating and cooling systems in accordance with the guidelines set out in the national climate plan, while ensuring effective mechanisms for regulating heat prices and protecting customers. The activity of the distribution of heat and the activity of gas distribution may be carried out as a selective local public service where the municipality determines the conditions and manner in which the public service is carried out in accordance with the rules and as a market distribution where the distributor has to obtain prior agreement from the municipality. The law provides for regulated pricing only in the case of the conduct of an economic public service, but not in the case of market distribution. Due to the jurisdiction of the municipality in the planning of energy systems in its area and at the same time with a view to promoting small distribution systems, the law slightly raised the criteria for the possibility of the municipality's decision to conduct market distribution, namely 500 domestic customers. The law also provides that the distributor must ensure that heat consumption is measured at the point of withdrawal in accordance with the rules on the efficient use of energy for all take-over points in the distribution system. The draft law sets out in more detail the regulation and methodology for establishing the price of heat, the eligible costs of the distributor, the procedure for obtaining the Agency's consent, the rules of separate accounting records and the method of accounting for the energy supplied. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are confident that greater flexibility in building new remote heating systems and encouraging consumers to use energy efficiently will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Greater flexibility in the construction of new smaller remote heating systems could also facilitate investment in the construction of these devices. The bill certainly provides more effective protection for vulnerable customers, so the Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.45 p.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 14.14 and resumed at 2.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u168	Fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will vote in line 3, 6, 10, 11, 12, 17, 19, 20, 23, 8, 4, 5, 15, 16, 22, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 44 and 1 item on the agenda. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill and to the decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft Law amending the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, the reduced procedure. Since, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended law were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Drivers Act. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Fire Protection Act, the reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. (For the vote was 52.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Rights of Victims Act 1991 in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. (The vote was 68.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Pomeranian Academic and Scientific Union in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 11. (The vote was 43.)(against 11.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Restrictive Measures introduced or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] May I have your attention, please? We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the control of space activities under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Heat Supply from Distribution Systems under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Sample Coins in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 15. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Wildlife and Hunting in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 14 March 2022. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 1(1). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Left Party to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 1(2). We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the SD Group to Article 1 to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 1a becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 22. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Fisheries in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. The vote was 48 against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 7. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agrarian Communities Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 March 2022. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 10. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 11. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft Law on Environmental Protection in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 March 2022. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 18. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 37 votes to 41. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 22 in particular. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 24 in particular. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, more specifically, Article 24, paragraph 25, forgive. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 59(1). We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 59 under Article 2. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the MP? Janja Servant, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have already prepared and tabled amendments to the resolution in the past of contaminated areas in Slovenia to deal with this law on the home working body. At that time, of course, for the amendments of the committee, the whole sub-chapter, which, of course, was rejected by the old-fashioned coalition. I would like to point out that, at the time of the consideration of the law on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley, the entire coalition, as well as the Minister, have responded to all the evidence with the answer that this law on environmental protection, which we now have on the table today, will solve the entire problem of rehabilitation in the past of contaminated areas. Of course not. It was easy to mislead, so we rounded the whole issue of rehabilitation in the past of contaminated areas in 16 articles. Since the coalition rejected this on the parental committee, we have now tabled an amendment to Article 59 in the 13th new paragraphs, which, according to our assessment, covers all that is most necessary in order to create a precondition for action in this area. The country is the one who, by decree, should declare certain areas in Slovenia degraded. She should have done it a long time ago, and she didn't. Our amendments say we have to do this. This fulfils the legal precondition, creating a sufficient binding legal basis for what should have been going on in this area for 25 years. For as long as the Celje Valley area has been publicly known, dangerous materials have been deposited in the Celje Cauldron, dangerous to health. But the country, except under duress, which is for Bukovslak, for the rehabilitation of kindergartens as a consequence of my first marriage, has done nothing of its own to date. That is why, of course, we will support these amendments that are ready, despite what the Minister has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Nobody wants more, so we're voting. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 41. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 84. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 106 in particular. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 112 in particular. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 113 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 119 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and specifically Article 126. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 130. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 183 under number 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 183 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 224 in particular. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 243 in particular. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 307. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 246 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 247 in particular. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. (The vote was 43.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 259 in particular. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. (The vote was 43.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 260 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. (The vote was 43.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 262 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. (The vote was 42.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 264 in particular. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. (The vote was 43.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 265 in particular. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. (The vote was 43.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to Article 274. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 275 and 312. If this amendment is adopted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. (For the vote was 27.)(against 46.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to Article 274 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 275 under Articles 1 and 312 has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 75(2). We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. (The vote was 41.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 277 in particular. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. (The vote was 43.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 297 in particular. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 302 in particular. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 307 in particular. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 312 in particular. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Do you have a procedural proposal? Yeah. Victory, Jelinčič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Chairman. Only one note to those who will ascribe to the law or who wrote is in the Slovenian language the euro is written e-v-r-o, not e-u-r-o. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u172	This will probably be taken into account when editing. The law. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, and since the drafter proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 27. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Is it accepted? Okay. It's been adopted. I note that the second reading was adopted by the Assembly on the amendments to 22, 24, 25, 59, 84, 106, 112, 113, 119, 126, 130, 224, 243, 246, 247, 259, 260, 262, 264, 265, 275, 277, 297, 302, 307 and 312. On the basis of Article 138(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I see you don't. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 2.) I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, it's on a proposal for a law on the ratification of the European Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated as a mother's work by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. (The vote was 79.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the European Convention on the falsification of medical products and similar criminal acts that endanger public health. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated as a mother's work by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. (The vote was 72.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the mutual protection of exchanged confidential data. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated as a mother's work by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. (The vote was 73.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange Programme. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated as a mother's work by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. (The vote was 75.)(against 1.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on the cessation of the validity of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on cross-border investment. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated as a mother's work by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. On the basis of a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Elixir Convention on the Establishment of a European Infrastructure for Life and Biological Information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I see there's no Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. No amendment was adopted by the parent labour body in the context of the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 44. Period of the day, it's on the mind-boggling agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Magda Teppey to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Vladimir Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Council of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of Mrs Magda Teppey, senior judge at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The need for an invitation to tender for this City of Justice was the result of the retirement of one Supreme Court judge, in particular that of the need to complete the Economic Chamber of the Supreme Court. I must point out that, at present, there are only three specialists from specialists in the five-member Chamber, namely the Chamber of Commerce of this Court, who are working to the full, and therefore this Chamber of Economics of the Supreme Court needs to be completed as soon as possible. It is also primarily in this case to decide on economic legal matters. The Council of Justice carried out all three stages of the application procedure, and of all the candidates or candidates, Magda Teppey, the most suitable candidate, started her career in the economy and then took office as a district judge at the District Court in Ljubljana in 1998. It was allocated to the Department of Economic Justice and the Department of Economic Offences. She was appointed to the post of Senior Judge at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana in 2008, where she worked in the Economic Department all the time. The quality of its work is also confirmed by the latest legal assessment of the judicial service, which found it to meet the conditions for faster progress. Her working skills are very good, and her expertise is also assessed. The decisions are convincingly reasoned and written in a beautiful Slovenian language. The experience gained in her long judicial career enables her to make sovereign decisions. With all the knowledge that has been shown, he is regularly further educated at home and abroad, being a person who is kind and non-conflict, always willing to help solve professional issues. In addition to the judicial work itself, allow me to point out some of its out-of-court activities, which are, of course, intertwined and related to the performance of the judicial service. This is how I point out cooperation in projects: analyses of Slovenian intellectual property case law, the IPR and the European Union Intellectual Property Office. Its membership in the working group is also here, in the National Assembly, to prepare a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Financial Business Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, its membership in the various committees for the conduct of professional examinations, mediation, the judgment on the list of the Chamber of Common Courts of the Economic Chamber of Slovenia, lectures at the meetings and seminars organised by the Centre for Education in the judiciary of the Ministry of Justice and other organisers, and the active participation of judicial forums and conferences on intellectual property at the European Patent Organisation and the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property. Of course, this cooperation at the highest international level helps her to understand several foreign languages: Italian, English, French and Croatian. The long-standing experience in the field of economic disputes is, of course, the factors that have favoured the selected candidates. In particular, I stress once again that it is distinguished by the knowledge of the difficult area of intellectual property law. We don't have such an expert at the Supreme Court right now and we really need him. He is a member of the European Patent Office’s General Court of Appeal. Nevertheless, her judicial work stands out both in terms of performance and quality. During an interview in the Council of Justice, her answers were sovereign, convincing, profound, and professionally reasoned. Her performance was professional, she gave clear answers and held strong views on professional issues and complex legal dilemmas. All of these are important qualities of a judge who would take up the most difficult and multilayered legal issues that are addressed in the Supreme Court in his resolution. That is why the Council of Justice proposes it as the most appropriate one for appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Magda Teppey the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the Supreme Court. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly not to adopt a proposal for a decision. [[advertising from the hall]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the delegation of Ms Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Vice President. Our SAB Group, of course, will unanimously support the appointment of Judge Teppey. He who listened to the explanation could see that this was an exceptional expert, an economic judge since 1998, an intellectual property expert and the profile of a judge who is not in the Supreme Court and who is in great need of him. Therefore, you can imagine my shock when there is a coalition majority or, I will say, the SDS, because I do not know about others, without explanation, refused the appointment of this judge. No explanation! In the past, we have had explanations from which we were able to learn that certain Supreme Judges were not supported solely because in one of the many hundreds of Kangler's proceedings, one judge, a poor man, in a Senate that voted on the expulsion of a judge, decided. This sin prevented her from progressing her career in order to become a supreme judge. What did Judge Teppey, who worked as an economic career, do in the economic field? So she didn't judge criminal matters, she couldn't judge Kangler, she couldn't judge Janša, I don't know who – what she resented them for not supporting her, we'll never know. Members taught me that, of course, it is their right to explain whether they will support or not, which is probably true, when someone as qualified as the Council of Justice, that one such reasoned proposal further underpins him for a supreme judge, not for a district judge – and I think that such a judge at least deserves to know why he will not be appointed. I therefore call on all of you to adhere to the professional criteria, to be correct to people who have done nothing wrong, and to support the judge, as suggested by those who propose the appointment of judges in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I'd like to ask for peace in the hall. Secondly, I would very much like to ask you to explain the voice of the Group without having a debate. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the floor to explain the position of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Vice President. This thing that happened on the Commission's terms of reference when the majority of the members of the Commission refused the support of the candidate proposed by the Council of Justice could be demonstrated by what is happening in Russia. Two years ago, President Putin proposed to the legislative authorities a change to the Constitution, after which he could not only continue to do so, but also to dismiss the judges. I think that this current coalition, or, above all, the SDS, thus understands justice or the independence of the judiciary. Through votes in the National Assembly, they can determine who will be appointed a judge, and that is, of course, unacceptable. This situation on the Commission's mandate is another reason why it is necessary to change this, to actually liberate the judiciary, and the Council of Justice should be the one with exclusive competence to appoint judges. The fact that, due to certain whims or past objections, a certain majority in the National Assembly rejects the support of a candidate or candidate of the Council of Justice is, of course, a political account with the judiciary and is unacceptable. We will support the candidate unanimously in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 35. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 35.]] The proposal or decision shall be adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of mags. Aleksandre Hočevar Vinski to the court seat of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Vladimir Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you very much again for your word. Your Honor! The Council of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to appoint Mrs Mag. Aleksandro Hočevar Vinski, senior judge at the Higher Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u180	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u181	to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] This is a labour and social area, so if it is appointed, the judge will work in the Labour and Social Department. The invitation to tender was also required for the retirement of a judge who had already been retired. Here, too, we currently have only three specialists in the Supreme Court in such a sensitive area as the labour and social field. The candidate elected by the Council of Justice has been employed by the Supreme Court in Ljubljana as an expert at the Labour and Social Court and then in 2005 at the Supreme Labour and Social Court. She took office in 2007 at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, and in 2015 she was appointed to the post of Senior Judge at the Supreme Labour and Social Court. It works all the time in the Department of Individual and Collective Labour Disputes. The judge has been in court for 14 years and 29 years together. It also follows from the latest assessment of the judicial service that the candidate fulfils the conditions for faster progress. She is a responsible and reliable judge, she is impartial in her work and thus protects the reputation of the judiciary. He has a corrective relationship with his fellow Members and with the judicial staff. It is also active as an examiner on various legal examinations of state and, in particular, as a member of the Examination Commission for legal counsel from other countries. She participated in the development of the Guide to Specialities in Labour and Social Disputes, which was issued in October 2018. In the Working Group for the Implementation of the Law on Justice and the Law on Unfair Procedures, which were adopted in this National Assembly, she participated as a representative of the Labour and Social Court. Its rulings are stark, with clear and solid positions, and deviates positively from the average of comparable judges. This is where the Council of Justice interviewed her. She did a great job on it. Her responses reflected her in-depth expertise, her ability to think quickly, and her knowledge of current jurisprudence and issues in the field in which she would work if she was appointed. Her expression was respectful, always extremely professional, supported by innovation and creativity in the expression of thoughts. The personal performance of the candidate was calm, sovereign and convincing – at the level expected from the candidate for the supreme judge. It has demonstrated the general breadth and ability of empathy, which is very important in this field of justice, and has also given rise to its sense of justice. It is therefore proposed by the Council of Justice for appointment as a City of Appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Aleksandra Hotchevar Winski. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. (The vote was 74.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Regional Court in Novi mesto. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Tanja Tušek in judicial capacity at the district court in the District Court in Novi mesto. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Vladimir Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u183	The Council of Justice is proposing to elect the Magi. Tanja Tušek to the seat of the District Court of the District Court in Novi grad. The invitation to tender was necessary for the transfer of the judge from the district to the district court in Novi Grad and therefore it was necessary to fill the free seat of the district court in that court. The increase in the number of cases I would particularly like to stress here, which will also be followed by the following proposals, has brought about this post-conceived period when the number of pending cases has increased very much. Moreover, because of the increase in the number of cases, it is not possible to resolve these cases by means of the over-the-average performance of judges in filled courts, in particular not for a longer period of time. Mag. Tanja Tušek was awarded, you could read this from material, with the average grades both in the diploma and in the legal exam. After that, she worked as a professional associate at the District Court in New Town, where she was assigned to the Justice Economic and Family Department. In addition to being highly qualified to perform the judicial service, from January 2020 onwards she is also the head of writers, independent judicial assistants and experts at the Justice Economic and Family Department. Because of her interest, and I would like to stress this in particular, and for European law and foreign language skills, the European Judicial Network's contact point for the New Town District Court. The candidate has gained long-term and rich work experience and extensive expertise in all areas of civil and economic law, as confirmed by the annual excellent assessments of her work. In addition, it has acquired the scientific title of the Master's degree in law, also publishes contributions and, within the framework of the tasks at that management post, the candidate is also successful in handing over knowledge to new co-workers in the form of the implementation of training in the workplace and the coordination of practices within the department. It is especially important for each judge to show honesty, justice, impartiality, and professional courage in his work. All of this also beautifies the proposed candidate. The candidate also gave a positive step forward in talking to the members of the Council of Justice and showed an expertly correct, sovereign, thoughtful and calm approach to resolving legal problems. With its very good knowledge of civil law, good analytical thinking, knowledge of judicial practice and clear, precise expression, it has also convinced us, the members of the Council and the members of the Council, who we unanimously conclude that she is the most suitable candidate and therefore we propose her to be elected to the seat of the Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will elect a mag as a judge of the District Court in the New Town District Court. Tanya Tushek. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Montenegro. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mateja Mihalič to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Montenegro. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Vladimir Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much again for your word. The Council of Justice is proposing to the National Assembly to elect Mrs Matejo Mihalič as Judge of the District Court in the District Court of Montenegro. In recent times, too, there has been a very common reason for the call for a new court seat to meet the conditions for the retirement of one judge and retirement will take place in a short period of time. In addition, there are only four judges working in this court who also solve all criminal cases of the District Court in Trebnje. At the same time, I would like to emphasise only in the information that the criminal area has become very difficult, complex, broad and that there has been a considerable shortage of criminal judges in the judicial system lately. Mateja Mihalič has been employed as a professional associate at the District Court in New Town. First, it was allocated to the Executive Division of the Regional Court in New Town, where it carried out, within the framework of the law, those procedural acts which give it a good basis for the performance of the judicial service. From January 2019 until the end of May 2021 it was allocated to the Legal Economic and Family Division of the District Court in New Town. Since June 2021, she has been employed by the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana in the New Town External Section, where she makes draft decisions, she has decided on proposals for decisions on provisional orders and objections against them and on various procedural issues. It has gained a wide range of expertise and experience from practically all areas of civil court work. She's been rated excellent all the time, organized, independent and accurate. Its written products are extremely quality, written in beautiful language, professional, sailcraft and convincing. All of this also shows, of course, its excellent appeal result. Of course, it does not go beyond positive personality and social skills. In her work, the candidate is responsible, reliable, prudent and committed, while in communication with the co-workers and with the parties she is clear, understandable and respectful, in very good relations with all employees and because of her pleasant nature and positive attitude she is popular and respected. Even in an interview with the members of the Judicial Council, all of this was confirmed, she quickly recognized the essential legal and factual issues, made the right legal decisions, and argued them accordingly. It answered the questions in a clear and precise manner and demonstrated the necessary breadth for the judge in terms of general and legal visibility, expertise and sovereignty. In this case, too, the Council of Justice has scrutinised all these characteristics necessary for the successful performance of the judicial service and has therefore proposed it for election to the place of appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision that will elect Matej Mihalič as judge of the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Montenegro. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for election to the judicial function of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Jesenice. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Irena Žnidarčič as a judge at the District Court of Justice in Jesenice. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Vladimir Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Ms Irena Žnidarčič proposes to the Council of Justice for election to the post of District Court in the District Court in Jesenice. Here too, the court, as I mentioned earlier, faces the issue of control in the area of criminal cases. In order to ensure a smooth resolution of criminal cases in this court in the future, it is also necessary to resolve the issue with new judges. The Council of Justice, Mrs Irena Žnidarčič, who first dedicated her work to the Notariat, then continued her career in the judiciary and became a professional associate at the District Court in Jesenice, assessed her as the most suitable candidate from the applicants and to the interview of the candidates and candidates invited. It should be pointed out in particular that, in the context of the performance of the tasks of the professional cooperation, the candidate is also independent in handling the case of enforcement and succession, which is certainly always a good way to start the service of the court. Of course, only those procedural acts that are permitted by law to professional colleagues are performed here. Her work so far in the District Court in Jesenica has been commended. He has a wide range of expertise and work. It shows that the candidate has proven herself to be interesting and accurate and well organised. In particular, its good capacity to resolve legal issues has been highlighted as legal remedies against the decisions in which it drafted them have been rejected. Her written products show the ability to express well in writing and analytical thinking. She proved to be an indispensable co-worker and is considered by her co-workers to be a very suitable candidate for a vacant seat. In her interview with the members and members of the Council of Justice, she has proved excellent, and she has shown a wealth of expertise with clear and concise answers, and she has also shown a wide range of views with them. It also answered the questions in a calm, clear and prudent manner and supported the solutions with relevant case law and knowledge, which it gained in solving cases in the framework of notariat and, of course, in recent years before the Court of Justice, and is therefore proposed by the Council as the most appropriate place for its examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision which elects Irena Žnidarčič as judge of the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Jesenice. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Trbovje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Sabine Kastelic Peršin as Judge of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Trbovje. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Vladimir Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your word on today's last proposal. The Council of the Court of Justice, in its election to the District Court of Justice of the District Court in Trbovje, proposes Ms Sabino Kastelic Persin to the National Assembly. The call was needed here, as stated in the proposal, or justified by the available data and performance indicators of the District Court in Trbów in 2020. This means, of course, in a more comprehensible language, due to the backlog, due to the post-conceived period, as I mentioned earlier. Ms Sabina Kastelic Peršin has been collecting work experience since 2013 at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where the most challenging legal issues are being resolved at the highest level of judicial judgment. The quality of its work is also confirmed by the progress made in the name of the Justice Council and its central work is based on the content of the same work of the rapporteur judge. Reports are carefully supported by the results of legal literature and case law, and are accurate and responsible. She is also an expert interlocutor who defends the proposed positions, but at the same time listens to the opposite arguments, which has always been very welcome in judicial decision-making. Such dialogue can therefore be reflected in the final decisions in a qualitative manner. In communication she is respectful, and in professional thinking she is determined and self-initiative. Because of all the characteristics described, she is personally and professionally qualified for judicial work. In her conversation with the Council of Justice, she made a convincing presentation, calm and sovereign. It has shown that its knowledge of civil law is at a high level of expertise, as it answered the questions correctly, by subsuming the relevant circumstances of a particular case under the relevant abstraction, thereby reinforcing its thinking with knowledge of current case law and thus confirming that it is a mature and experienced legal expert. It is therefore proposed by the Council of Justice to the Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-16-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision, by which Sabina Kastelic Peršin is elected as Judge of the District Court in the District Court in Trbovje. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Broadcasting Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Broadcasting Council whose term of office starts on 28 April 2022. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present and 42 votes against 35. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government and ministers of 15 March 2022, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the parliamentary question of the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite regarding the acute challenges facing the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 3 to 73. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 73.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez (Ivan) Janša to the question of the Parliamentary question of Janje Slug concerning the measures to mitigate dearness. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin's question on the question of Mr Kordiš's mission concerning the conclusion of implementing acts for the purchase of boxer vehicles. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Restovalska to the question of Sam Bevko's mission regarding the rehabilitation of mining damage and degraded environment in the city of Idrija and the management of the waste dumps loaded with mercury. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 35 votes to 40. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to Mark Bandellija's question on high fuel prices. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik and Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of the electoral campaign by Jani Ivanuša. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was five, sixty-five. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I have some more peace, please? At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to the question of Mr Kordiš on the scale and timing of the construction of the home of older and protected dwellings and the envisaged provision of services in the area of the former barracks in Škofja Loka. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Janez Cigler King to the question of the Parliamentary question by Vojko Starović regarding the candidates for the preparation of the partnership and the marriage. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'm asking for some more peace. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 39. (For the vote was 33.)(against 39.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the question of Mr Nataša Sukić on political pressures and interference with the investigation procedures of the National Investigation Office. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 40. (For the vote was 35.)(against 40.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to the question of the mission Primož Siter concerning the restructuring of the region, as stated by the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 40. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 40.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Branislav Rajić in connection with the use of Eco Fund funds for the connection of solar power plants. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. (For the vote was 32.)(against 40.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrej Reich in relation to the second track project. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. (For the vote was 32.)(against 40.) I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to Violet Tomić's question on procedures for obtaining international refugee protection status. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. (For the vote was 31.)(against 42.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Health Minister Janez Poklukar to the question of mags. Branislav Rajić in connection with the return of the concession of one of the orthodontists in the Podrav region. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. (For the vote was 33.)(against 40.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin and Health Minister Janez Poklukar at Violet Tomić's question on helicopter emergency medical care. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 39. (For the vote was 31.)(against 39.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, to the question of mag. Andrey Reich in connection with Edward Rusjan Airport. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. (For the vote was 33.)(against 40.) I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Visiak on the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding the planned shooting of a brown bear in 2022. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice afternoon and have a good trip home!
