ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 98th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Igor Zorčič from 15:00 to 18:00, Alexander Reberšek from 17:00 to 21:00, mag. Meira Hot by 12 p.m., only Bevk by 2 p.m., Franz Jurša, Michael Prevc from 10 p.m. to 2 p.m., Marjan Sarec to 1 p.m., Janja Slug to 6 p.m. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 98th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 4 March 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 98th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE LEGISLATION OF STUDENTS, REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalers, Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u2	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! The future of young people begins and ends with a quality and accessible educational system, from primary to tertiary level. A highly educated staff is key to the successful economy and prosperity of Slovenia. However, since the adoption of the current Student Regulation Act in 2017, a whole generation of students have studied and their situation has not improved or deteriorated during this five-year period. Despite the fact and warnings that students are one of the most vulnerable social groups that have been particularly affected by the Coronavirus epidemic, these remain on the sidelines. The student population has received only partial and insufficient measures and assistance in anti-Korona laws. At the same time, students or their families have been financially affected by student work revenues, the level of admissions is steadily higher, and the amount of the student food subsidy has been frozen with the ZUJF for a decade if I point out in the first place only the most sensitive and obvious shortcomings of the existing regime. It is therefore clear that we need a proposed law today that adequately addresses the most pressing problems of the student population. In many discussions, I was convinced by young people or representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, who are also the main initiators and co-sponsors of today's Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students. This was introduced into the parliamentary procedure as early as last July with the support of colleagues from the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD, SAB and SNS. I am pleased that the relevance and urgency of solving the problems addressed to date have been recognised by both the members of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, as well as the members of the home labour force, namely the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. If I touch the content of the law now. As a key solution, this law provides for an increase in state scholarships by 20 per cent from the previous period until 2024. It provides for the receipt of student work income and staff scholarships up to the minimum wage of the accounts of justification for social transfers. By doing so, students or their families will no longer be penalized for their work as students. The amount of the subsidy for a student diet meal is projected to rise to 3.5 euros. The austerity measures introduced more than a decade ago with the so-called ZUJF are still in force. In addition, raw materials are adhered to, which is reflected in the annual increase in the student meal allowance. The period of daily use of student food subsidies from 7 to 22 hours is also extended. This allows for a more flexible exercise of this right. There is also an increase in the amount of earmarked resources for the construction of student homes by the State, which is why the student population needs a new field law. Digital student cards are introduced, administrative costs are limited when enrolled in studies that have so far burdened students disproportionately. More comprehensively, students with special needs and talented young people are addressed and given equal treatment in the draft law also raises the issue of the prohibition of sexual and other harassment and suffering in the study environment. Once again, I stress that students are an important social group, so it is only right that we, as legislators, respond responsibly to their calls and improve their position. I believe in a favorable timetable for the proposed amendments and additions, and I thank all those who will support this proposal. To the extent that amendments are adopted in the second reading to less than a dozen articles in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the applicant, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth has considered the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the Groupes of the Non-Aligned Members, the Social Democrats and the List of Marjan Sarc. The representative presented a proposal for a law from the Ministry of Education and presented the Government's opinion on science and sport. The representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure considered that the return to the related tickets was a step back, and the Ministry also extended the subsidised tickets for the whole school year or year of study. The representative of the Ministry of Health said that the proposal in Article 30 interferes with four laws relating to health legislation which are not favoured. It is the Law on Patient Rights, the Law on Medical Services, the Law on Health Insurance and the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The Ministry recalls that in Slovenia there are too few doctors at an appropriate level who accept insured persons, so the Government or the competent ministry is working to solve this problem. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in accordance with its powers, and their representative said that she had prepared a comprehensive written opinion. Already in the introductory part, it was pointed out that the proposal for a law interferes with eight laws, using a specific legislative technique for the amendment of so-called so-called ‘legislative techniques’. an omnibus which deviates from the usual amendment of laws with separate laws. In their comments to each article, certain concerns of a constitutional nature were raised from the perspective of Articles 2, 14, 58 and 21 of the Constitution. Comments were made in terms of compliance with the legal system, pointed out the inadequate reintroduction of certain content into individual laws which are already part of the current text of these laws, and pointed out some other nomotechnical shortcomings. Following a rapid review of the amendments, it considered that most of their comments were taken into account and therefore only highlighted those where their concerns were not taken into account. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport. Her representative said that the Commission supported the proposal and, among other things, assessed that the bill under consideration could be understood as a crisis law because it addressed the critical problems that the student population has faced for a long time and had a very direct impact on its daily and study life. The representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia presented the chronology of the drafting of the bill and briefly summarized the main points. She thanked all those who had adopted the initiative and supported the bill and also called for support from those parliamentary groups that had not yet been identified. The debate stressed that young people have suffered in this crisis. They were posted outside student homes, they were prevented from working through a student service and students were not included in the PKPs except in two cases. That is why the debaters stressed that priority should be given to young people, and at least partly to the damage that students felt during the COPID-19 epidemic. The fact is, young people were neglected at the time of the epidemic. Some debaters, however, pointed out that it would be better if the problem were not addressed at so many different ends. It would be best if everything was regulated in the Higher Education Act. Programmes should be linked to each other from kindergarten onwards. It was pointed out that the draft law interfered with eight laws and that the financial consequences were not the same as those of the applicants. To arguments of all [[sign for the end of the debate]] Those who did not support the bill because of the financial consequences, however, the proponents of the bill replied that the financial implications of EUR 37 million in the context of the government's operation were negligible. It was further stressed that the proposed solutions were well-intentioned and therefore the issues dealt with should not unite Members. Students should be assisted by establishing good study conditions as they will [[sign for the end of the debate]] so they can focus more on it and end it sooner. Knowledge is the greatest value and national capital, so it is necessary to invest in knowledge and youth, and society will continue to develop as a society of knowledge and innovation. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled and voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. A further proposal has been prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Mitja Slavinc, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The government forwarded an opinion on the proposed law last September. That's why I won't say it again in this place. Let me stress, however, that the work of the mother body has been exposed to the way in which the law interferes with eight other laws and can therefore lead to a certain lack of transparency. We also pointed out some other details and inconsistencies, perhaps not the best solutions. Some were also warned by the Law-Legal Service. And I am pleased that now, after the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the law is in such a form that the government can support it. The government also generally supports all solutions that are in the best interests of education, bringing knowledge closer to all those who are interested in it, and that is why we support it even though the law is also linked to a considerable burden on the budget, but, if this is for the sake of knowledge convergence, if this means that the average level of knowledge in Slovenia will be higher, then it is certainly well invested money. Throughout the world, the ministry has already communicated on these issues with the student organisation, and has prepared a number of proposals for a solution, and since these solutions coincide with many articles of this law, we can be much more supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u7	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group will be presented to us in particular by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In the previous reference to Parliament, a law was adopted for the first time to regulate the situation of students. Even then, it was obvious why such a way of enacting a law would not be more appropriate to amend individual laws instead of adopting the law at that time, and why students were organised in a way that they proposed to regulate their situation in a single law. So today, for the second time in a row, we face similar findings. In the Group of Members, we are of the opinion that the legal regulation of matter, in our case, should avoid the situation of students as envisaged by the law in question. However, as in many other areas since the adoption of the ZUJF in the last two years, marked by covid-19 disease, interference in several laws has become a constant practice that we will obviously have to adapt or accept at least in intervention legislation. On this occasion, we reiterate that the solutions to the proposal are good. Some improvements have already been made on the working body, and some have either been regulated in other regulations in recent months and thus become irrelevant or proved difficult to implement. In the first case, we can mention the attempt to regulate subsidised public passenger transport, which in the meantime resulted in the entry into force of uniform tickets for students and students in August last year, which certainly contributes significantly to greater accessibility of public transport for this target group. In the second case, however, we can mention the initial requirement for an additional or other personal physician who would be provided additionally to the students at the site of the study. Such a solution has proved difficult in the given circumstances when some over 100,000 people do not have a personal physician and is deleted from the bill. Although the problem of lack of family doctors was addressed last year by the adoption of the Emergency Health Act, which introduced a financial incentive in the form of a supplement to choose specialization from family medicine. Doctors who have completed a professional examination and have applied for the specialisation of invitations to tender in 2021 and 2022 are already entitled to an allowance for the selection of specialisation in family medicine of 20% of the hourly rate of basic salary of the specialist. We believe that because of what has been said in the years to come, a more favourable solution will be found for students as well. When highlighting the key solutions to the bill, it is certainly necessary to highlight changes in state scholarships, not only for raising these, but also for two new income classes. We want students to have direct work experience only because of the introduction into the working environment of the selected employer and not because of material deprivation. But we know that reality is different and we also welcome the rise of state scholarships through the prism. The subsidised student diet was discussed several times in the National Assembly several years ago. This time we have also found a consensus among Members, both in extending the time interval at which it is possible to use subsidised student diets, as well as in increasing the subsidy for a student meal. The amount of the subsidy is expected to rise from the current 2.35 euros to 3.50 euros. The time interval at which a subsidised student diet could be used would be new from 7 to 22 hours. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and no more than 8 to 21 hours. However, some amendments or additions to the bill will be decided today. In the Group of Members, in particular, we will support the proposal for a law to regulate the situation of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u10	Your Honor! She's in the young world. We also like to boast about how good students we have and how most of our regular education is free throughout the vertical. As much as there is truth in this free, although there is a debate for another time, we must all agree that it has done a great deal for students in recent years and has enabled almost all of them to study. I believe you're looking at me strangely. A good 20 years ago there was no subsidized transport, a scholarship, amounted to so much that he had a student or a monthly ticket from home to college or the cheapest home and the cheapest food vouchers, but only for 20 days. He could not have both, so most of them, like many now, were forced to work or were dependent on their parents. Indeed, the hourly item may have been higher, but their work was not counted anywhere, nor were their contributions paid for. In fact, students without reservations agreed to the so-called black work and no, it would have been in the former system, but, as I mentioned, a good 20 years ago. I'd be lying if I said that students weren't in a hurry at the time, but life was different. Many would even say that better, more relaxing and significantly more varied. Life goes on, things change, and it is also right for us to go to students and align certain areas with today. In the Slovenian National Party, we were pleased to contribute signatures to the proposal regulating the situation of students, increasing scholarship grants by 20%, by 2024, harmonising the amounts of student food subsidies, increasing funding for the construction of student homes, regulating digital student cards, the field of student work and higher and higher education. We are confident that the proposal will at least partially eliminate the damage that the students felt during the Covid-19 epidemic. Indeed, students at this time of sight received some government candy, which were only for themselves purpose, and there was no way to remedy the problems they actually had. Students should be assisted by establishing good study conditions. This could help to focus more on the study and to complete it much earlier. Perhaps we will take a step further in the future and make a reform that will allow future students a more realistic choice of the study programme. All of us who have studied have been faced with the belief that every college thinks it is the best and that their graduates are employable. The truth is very different. And that's why we're a country that has almost the most unemployed graduates or they're out of their jobs. Therefore, you will also be served by a qualified economist at a coffee shop. So if we have made it easier for financial students to study, we will also have to make sure that they are able to study for actual employment. In spite of all this, I cannot go beyond the general belief that the students of Maribor are less valuable than the students of Ljubljana. Students are both Mariborese and Ljubljanaian, only that many go to study in Maribor, because there are lower costs of staying. On many occasions, however, it happens that it is the students of Maribor who have more knowledge and know how to make better money.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Sorry, colleague and colleague. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Incomprehensible]] Over the past two years, this National Assembly has adopted 10 anti-Korona packages, which have addressed various measures to mitigate the impact of the epidemic. The measures were aimed at different social groups and the objective conclusion is that the young or the student population were the most disadvantaged in doing so. The measures for him were the least, and they were, above all, partial in nature. Also independent of the Covid epidemic, 19 representatives of the student population estimate that their situation has deteriorated in the last decade and that this area has not been high on the political agenda in recent years. There is also direct criticism, just the current authorities, but only the awareness that we have all done too little together to improve the situation of young people. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have therefore listened to the needs of the student population, and we have estimated that the proposed law, which in one place, even if by interference with different legislation, would have settled their most pressing problems. It is the area of scholarship, residence in student homes, food subsidies, higher and higher education and student work. I'd like to point out only the most important things here. Provided for scholarships by 20% over the next four years. [[Incomprehensible]] State scholarships are on average about 300 euros lower than the average cost of a student, so the amount to which many students from socially disadvantaged backgrounds are simply not enough to survive. Income from student work is up to the minimum wage exemption from the calculation of justification for social transfers. It allows more flexible use of student diet and increases the student food subsidy, which has not increased or harmonised for several years. The possibility of staying all students in student homes is equal, regardless of the type of study, and each year the country will allocate additional financial resources for the purpose of building and rebuilding the student's living capacity. The amount of costs which higher education institutions may charge for administrative costs of entry and study shall be limited. A digital student card is being introduced, which is essential and inevitable in terms of technological progress. More comprehensively, talented students and students with special needs are treated. Under certain conditions, student work can be taken into account when mitigating working hours or when recording working hours. These are just some of the most important things. These amendments and additions are subject to sectoral legislation, which students themselves have assessed to improve their position. Therefore, the proposed solutions do not bear any political or any other omen or bear an omen of young people who are an important member of our society. It is therefore worth listening to and enabling them to implement the proposed solutions. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, and we would like this law today to receive the support of the vast majority of this National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues and all those who accompany us! The Law on the Status of Students seeks to improve the situation of students and stay students. This is a fitting gesture if we want to meet the ambitious goal of at least half of the 30- to 34-year-olds having the first degree of university education by 2030. Such a quantity of critical and educated people is a marriage for the successful development of society. The law improves scholarship policy, making it possible for students to become more independent. It regulates the safe study environment and also prohibits the suffering, harassment of students and regulates the situation of students with special needs, which is long-awaited and urgently needed. For a long time now, the country is spending money on rebuilding and building new student homes, and this law is building up, and we support it. All of this allows for equal baseline options. In doing so, I would like to point out that our party is working to enable students to study in their region or as close as possible to that region. On this occasion, let me call on everyone to support our proposal in the future, that is, the government proposal to create a new public university in New City. On the subject of a digital student card, we can be happy that this is regulated in a modern way, smartly, but data needs to be handled extremely carefully. That is why we are proposing an amendment to this article. We also stress the need to systematically regulate the payment of material costs, not only for students, but also for all other levels, primary school, high school. It is necessary to be equally fair here, so there is also an amendment here that states that this will be regulated systematically for all levels, as I have said. If these amendments tabled by the coalition are accepted, of course, we will be most pleased to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u15	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Today we have a similar story as we had in 2017, so the proposal for a law signed in 2017 as the first-signed President of the National Assembly, today the current President of the National Assembly. Why we signed this law in the letter of Marjan Šarc, and we will support it today — for a simple reason because it was actually created among young people. Thus, young people have found out what they need, what they are deprived of, and have prepared a law that was then introduced by most of the sent groups. Young people – like in 2012-2013 – have also borne the greatest burden, the greatest social responsibility, as they were actually the most affected during the economic crisis. ZUJF has hurt young people very much and still suffer the consequences of the current health crisis, as has been the case with the current health crisis. Unfortunately, despite many warnings, the government has spent only €150 twice, which actually means around €15 per month. We know in what areas all young people have been deprived of, from the fact that colleges have been closed, from the fact that they have had to leave their dormitory, to the fact that they have not been able to carry out their student work and could still be listed. So, given that an average student needs about 500 euros to survive, and from the current government has received about 15 euros a month, we know who has borne these costs, they say, their parents. As a result, young people have rediscovered a law that actually answers the questions they face in order to actually improve their daily lives and enable them to study more easily. This law will, of course, be supported in LMŠ, as I have already said, especially because young people pay too much for student vouchers. This increases their subsidised student vouchers, then increases their number of scholarships as well as their value. We also spend money on building student homes where they are needed, especially in Ljubljana and Primorska. A digital student card is also being introduced. And since, as the government likes to say, for the first time in the history of the digitisation minister, there is also one digitisation, if I may say, in this area. It was mentioned on the committee, which is why the law is adopted in the same way as it is. Now I believe that this government, and even the coalition, is not the most credible thing to say, "Why is it adopted in this way?" if we know that we have adopted many PKPs, which were much broader, which have interfered with many more laws than this. Last but not least, it was pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. Now this law is slightly different, because we have already had a similar marriage, as I have already mentioned, in 2017, and from now on this law works in practice, says students are studying better and their lives have improved. And that's why the students made a marriage in a similar way this time. We hope, personally as well as in the LMŠ, that today we will adopt this law unanimously. Some amendments have been tabled by the coalition, which in my opinion are somewhat corrupting or taking away certain rights that students would like. But you must know that the students have already gone to the government. Finally, you have also deleted from the original law two articles, as mentioned earlier today, about transportation as well as about health insurance and family doctor. So the students went across the street, and they also removed a few things on their proposal. And as they said, for quite some time, they also negotiated with all the parliamentary groups as well as with the government. And as I said, in LMŠ, of course, we will be happy to support this law, and we are very pleased that young people have played a major role in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u18	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Members. The Coronavirus epidemic and the unwise conduct of the ruling government at the helm of Minister Kustec were severely affected by schooling. Among them among the most exposed were the students who closed the university doors to them, moved them from student homes and gave them only some charity, although many students are living through a student’s work that they were unable to do because of the closure of society. The consequences are known to generations of students who have only now sat well in the student bench and met their colleagues. The NIJZ study on the experience of the COPID-19 epidemic among students thus showed that the situation for a number of students was stressful. We have witnessed an increase in anxiety, hopelessness, boredom, loneliness and depression. And if 31.6% of students have sought help in the event of mental distress before the pandemic, at the time of the pandemic, 56 participants have sought help in the event of mental distress. Of this, about a third of the people often sought help. And yet, the state, or better - said government, did not fail. This year, the government council on student issues has not met at all, the last available record with the EC is last October, and this tells us a lot about how important it is to the country and to the department of student welfare. Fortunately, students and students, or their representatives, did not sleep to be put to sleep by the carefree Government, so today we have before us the amendment of the Law on the Regulation of the Rights of Students, which was created by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and put into Parliamentary Procedure by opposition Members. The law provides an improvement in the social situation for students in many areas in which the Government has forgotten about students. It also eliminates certain injustices committed by another Janša government with ZUJF to a student. After the last economic and social crisis, the other Janša government has embarked on the tightening of the belt for those who have not caused the crisis, the third Janša government with its promoters and pre-election bombers has, above all, taken care of its potential voters and supporters and should have forgotten the more advanced young people in our society, because the current authority is probably not counting on the electoral support of young people who are free of thought in the future of open people, but in the democratic opposition to students and their difficult social situation we have not forgotten, and while Janša's government opposes the law, we hope that this assembly will not forget how to be a student and we must improve their social situation even now that there are times when thanks and energy people can be encouraged, I believe that we must improve the scholarship conditions in our country, the student diet, improve the living conditions for students. Respected and respected, the Social Democrats will be a law that will greatly improve the social situation of students in our country, and I hope that you will do so in other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u19	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. In the last two years, it has been very clear that the government of John Janša does not like smart people. For this reason, students were also briefly drawn in the context of the Covid-19 epidemic. In all the strong millions, even billions, for which the state has committed itself, the students have remained virtually empty-handed in the name of the epidemic resolution. That one-time or two-time solidarity aid was very small for those students who actually found themselves in distress at the same time very irritable to students who come from wealthy families and do not really need help. But as if this ignorance wasn't enough, the student government further rewarded the students with persecution from student homes again after the pretext of the Covid-19 epidemic. The mandate ends with a pianist action of so-called digital vouchers, to which students are also expected to be excused, and in fact there is nothing more than funding for international computer equipment manufacturers for this money, which is supposed to go through digital vouchers to students, you will not even be able to afford a regular computer maybe a mouse and a keyboard. In short, one great terrible farce, which in no way addresses the social distress and plight of students. Among them are those who come from poorer families, from more modest environments, from working households, who also need to rely on a full-time college job in order to study them in no small way, so it is not surprising that students themselves have prepared a law that we are considering today in which they are committed to improving the situation of the most vulnerable among them. Among other things, the law contains an increase in food subsidies and a definition of student work income in a way that does not consider to be income up to the minimum wage to be an obstacle to the receipt of a children's allowance or kindergarten subsidy. It also includes an increase in scholarships for all income classes, but also the possibility of using student vouchers in the summer months. For all these reasons, we will, of course, support the law in Levica, and note that we could do something like the National Assembly, like all political parties, another step forward. Let's say that scholarships for the poorest, most vulnerable students are raised by some higher class than is provided for in this law. They are the ones most exposed to working burdens that reach or even exceed the regular workloads, just to cover their astronomical rents in Ljubljana, just so that they still have a bunch of pasta left without which they are not. In fact, the scholarship policy should be cut down even more thoroughly, precisely in order for the scholarships to cease to be a semi- symbolic public income to students in distress, but a guarantee that they can ensure that the student performs this task for which we have him in the country at all, that is to say, that he is studying. It's not like as a laborer, he fills a glass in one of the bars, in another place, in the third place, stacks the stuff in the warehouses. Not because this work would not be honorable, but because it takes away the power it needs to benefit from its intellectual capacities and draws the most out of the study that it could draw. Thank you. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u22	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the last two years, the epidemic has really cut into our daily lives, into our community, into our relations, into our way of life, and also the situation of students. Today we have before us the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students, which has been prepared to a good extent by the Student Organisation, with the shortening of the ŠOS, and the law regulates 6 laws; the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Higher Vocational Education and the Law on Labour Relations. The law itself brings some good solutions, for example, the possibility of a digital student card, the extension of student status for one year, even in the case of a stillborn child, the area of students with special needs is systematically regulated and the possibility of granting scholarships for the sixth and seventh income classes is also regulated. We welcome the increase in student food subsidies from 2.82 euros to 3.5 euros, which is extremely important for the student community. For us Christian Democrats, the SOS proposal in the field of student work and human resources scholarships, which are included in the family income in the recognition of all family rights, is too ambitious in the children's allowance, the state grant, the money social assistance, the subsidy to rent. The law provides that income shall not be taken into account up to the minimum wage. Members of New Slovenia have also tabled a package of social and family legislation concerning students and have written down that staff scholarships and student work are not fully taken into account in determining the family property of income, so I believe that in the coming days when we will also support it. Taking care of the student community is one of our priorities. It is a matter of value and it is right for young people to acquire working habits and skills. This is a guarantee for a good job and employment after completion of education. Justice and solidarity are also seen in the recognition of the State grant, and therefore the child allowance should not be taken into account in the income of the family. Christian Democrats advocate a child's allowance as part of a family policy and must not affect relatives, siblings, in obtaining a state grant. This also brings a package of social legislation, which is in the National Assembly and will be considered in the coming days, and I believe that we will also agree on this. In the coalition we are united in the issue of student cards, we do not see the need to change the existing system, which works well and is trustworthy, by transferring the issue of student cards to the SOS. Additional financial inflows and access to the personal data of students in Slovenia, which they want in the SOS, even in the light of past experience, we all know about the disappearance of €70,000 in one of the Shkis markets, raises a serious question and requires reflection, so the proposed amendment preserves the situation as we know it and is operating today and retains the issue of student cards to universities. In the core programme of New Slovenia we write: "Universities are the future, there is a place where knowledge and new ideas are born, there is a space community where we can freely exchange opinions and start creating innovations for the future. There are intersections of achievement and ideas from all over the world. The doors of universities must be open to all capable students regardless of their origin and material state of the family. We seek the diversity and excellence of the university space and encourage close cooperation with the economy. The transfer of technology ensures that new inventions find new uses. Every progress and innovation for us also means progress in prosperity." Members of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a law to regulate the situation of students if the amendments proposed today are also adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u24	A nice greeting from the honourable Member, honourable Members! As you all know, in the Sab party, we are in favour of pensioners, because often the older and also the retired are the ones who live the most difficult and live even below the poverty threshold, and regardless of this in our programme we always give important space to young people too, because we are aware that only by providing for young people, their proper future, so as to have the right life, jobs, social security, at the same time, we will not have the same problems in 20, 30, 40 years, the problems that people who have spent their entire working time will retire the old age as laid down by the law will not be able to live a decent life. In this case, too, we have gladly listened to young people and their proposals, many of them have formed themselves, conducted a broad political debate, addressed a number of parliamentary groups, including ours, and before us there is a law that is highly coordinated, as far as I understand with all the parliamentary groups and the application of a number of important solutions such as increased access to education and learning efficiency, this goal seems to us in the SAB extremely important, only well-educated and ready young people can have a good future and, as I have also said, a good age. The changes will improve the social situation of students or eliminate unjustified discrimination, discrimination observed by young people in areas such as the social situation of students and their family members, higher and higher education, recognition of working hours for the duration of the student work, the use of food vouchers for students and even smaller ones, but for students obviously very important areas addressed by this law. It saddens us that, in the legislative proposal, a draft proposal for free transport can play an extremely important role in the rapid transition to environmentally friendly modes of transport, which is why we have worked very hard to do so. In addition to the more general objective, free transport for young people would allow greater mobility in terms of returning home, greater mobility in terms of associating with peers, getting to know the country and so on. We are making a commitment in the SAB to students and students that if we are members of the future government in the next term, we will work to ensure that young transport agencies are also transported in a manner and in principle such as our Chairman of the Mag Party. My cousin set it up for the pensioners. Young people need to be given the path to knowledge, experience and opportunities to build their future. We need to give them the opportunity to create an independent living environment and that they can have, as generations have before them, some balance between professional and private life. We cannot provide everyone with a job, of course we are aware of it, but it is a policy task to create good conditions and a stable future for all of them. With regard to criticism that the law is not systematic and that it interferes with a number of system laws in a similar way to the ZUJF and various PKPs, it may also be in the SAB that we can agree with this comment, but with all the laws that have been adopted by this Government and in this mandate and have caused a number of problems in the application of this legislation, a number of problems in terms of legal clarity and legal certainty, we do not think that such a law, which, however, amounts to a single complete whole, which is a solution to the problems and situations of students, does not have to make the situation significantly worse. So we will, of course, unanimously support the SAB in terms of everything we say.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB. Anybody want to talk? I find that since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS, NSI and Article 14 in particular. This is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 20, so we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 14 and 20 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB and the amendments of SDS, NSI and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB and the amendments of SDS, NSI and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss this amendment again, I am also concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of a half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Administration Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to a representative of the Government who is not. The proposal for a law dealt with the Committee on Finance as a working parent. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I shall give it to the Chairman of the Committee, who is not either. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Mr Robert Polnar is not. Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman. In view of the fact that the previous point has ended so quickly, please take a break so that the invited ones who are present at this 2nd point will all come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u27	I'm afraid I'm not going to follow your procedural proposal. Everyone has been informed of the points and agenda as it is. Nor does the Member Group of the National Party. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u28	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. A nice greeting from my fellow Member and Members. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia was founded on the merger of the then Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The Financial Administration Act has been adopted by the National Assembly 31. 3. 2014 in which the functioning, organisation, tasks and powers of the Financial Administration are regulated in more detail. Its main task is to collect taxes in addition to carrying out many tasks in other non-tax areas, such as, for example, during the epidemic, other concerns about the verification of compliance with the PCT condition and, through the Financial Administration, various CAP measures and provisions have also been implemented. It shall carry out these tasks in particular in the field of enforcement, control and related management and decision-making in criminal proceedings, and it is therefore necessary that the Authority pursues both the protection of the public interest and the legal protection of the parties. We welcome that in December 2020, the Minister of Finance set up a working group to prepare measures in the field of the tax procedure and the Financial Administration, which worked within the framework of the Council for the Upgrade of the Tax System, as analyses have been prepared within this group, the situation of the area in the tax procedure and the Financial Administration, and proposals for content to improve the tax procedure and the functioning of the Financial Administration, as this has been very welcome, as the actual situation has been identified and where the obstacles to the proceedings are. Thus, some of the solutions followed by the conclusions and proposals of that working group are included in the proposed amendment. Proposals to amend the law are aimed at improving the legal security of the parties in financial administration procedures and improving the organisation of business processes to increase the efficiency of the Financial Administration by ensuring the legitimate and proper implementation of the laws, taxation and other rules to which it is competent. The proposed changes follow the direction of the development of the Public Administration – as few bureaucratic barriers as possible in decision-making processes and must be the first place for the user of services and equality of treatment. The main solutions presented by the proposal for a law are, in particular, to amend the provisions on the regulation of the local competence of financial offices, followed by greater flexibility in the functioning of the financial administration and thus quicker resolution of matters. A mandate shall be laid down for the directors of the financial offices. This pursues the objective of efficient management of offices, as it has been shown in practice that long-term mandates have in many cases proved to be an obstacle to the management of the body or the introduction of changes. College decision on the most challenging cases of the tax procedure shall be introduced. The arrangements governing the withdrawal of powers by the chairman shall be supplemented, the possibility for the chairman to delegate the matter to another inspector in charge and decision-making when the conditions are met for this purpose, or for the chairman to withdraw the powers of the inspector by decision for repeated irregularities in decision-making. The conditions of the introduction of the financial investigation are being supplemented, the possibility is being introduced that after the completion of the financial investigation an inspection can be carried out and some other solutions to be taken for the purpose of the package treatment of the related laws due to the normative harmonisation of the rules. Since the bill is aimed at improving the legal security of the parties in the procedures run by the Financial Administration and at enhancing the effectiveness of its operation and thus bringing the needs of citizens and citizens closer together with the pursuit of equal access to services for all, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Administration Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As stated in the draft law, the Financial Administration is expected to find that its organisation no longer achieves its objectives in the best way and therefore proposes that the area and headquarters of the General Financial Office and the financial offices and the delimitation of tasks between the General Financial Office and the Financial Offices be determined by a regulation. In doing so, it is noted from the aircraft that the bill does not propose the protection of inspectors acting lawfully and in the interests of the State, but that their degradation is proposed, although their functioning is expected to be dependent and they bear responsibility for their activities. It seems like the director would like to force order or perhaps even make matters easier for the clients of his office. Article 4 shows the possibility of subjective evaluation and potential accounting by the chairpersons, as we have witnessed at the time of this coalition in the Police. If the tax obligation is expected to exceed EUR 500 000, the College of Three Officials will decide in this case. College decision-making seems to extend the procedure. Cases are difficult, and all those involved will have to learn all the details. More importantly, it seems that the bill has been written to a certain extent for rich parties, which Director Furs himself advocates in his spare time, and we are therefore drawing attention to a conflict of interest. It is further laid down that the Chief of Staff may appoint a professional consultative body to deal with professional issues in the field of the competences of the Financial Administration and the development of the tax system. The body shall be composed of representatives of the Financial Administration and external experts, and the question of the external impact on the independence of the Authority shall be raised. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we have proposed the deletion of Article 4 on the Committee, since Article 42 already clearly provides that the chairman shall, by a decision, deprive the official of the right to exercise his or her powers if, by a final decision in the disciplinary procedure, she finds that she has abandoned or otherwise abused the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the working relationship. Furthermore, the text of the proposed Supplement to Article 42 is to a large extent unclear as it does not give rise to the procedure in which infringements of the rules of management and decision-making or repeated irregularities in the decision-making process will be reported and what act is the basis for the expression of the measure withdrawing powers. After the current arrangements, the notified infringements shall be identified in the disciplinary procedure. However, it is not clear from the proposed supplement whether the sentence of the measure is sufficiently subjective to the assessment of the chairman, or whether objective reasons must also be given for his statement. All of these are, of course, the reasons why the LMŠ opposes the proposal of the law, so of course we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law governing the functioning of the financial administration or the FURS was prepared by the Government. Its objective is to improve the legal certainty of the debtors and to improve tax recovery procedures. This time, however, the Government does not refer to the need to comply with European rules, but it has brought before us a proposal that also affects the human resources field, as it changes the rules and procedure for their appointment to the head of tax administrations, leaving the FURS to the chairman with the use of a tender and a five-year mandate. While the government points out that it has taken professional opinions into account in the preparation, it has clearly limited itself to the proposal of the so-called working group for the preparation of measures in the field of tax procedure and financial management set up by the Director of FURS, Mr Ivan Simič, as the consultative body. However, the letters received by the Customs Union also remind us that there was no broader debate or expert consultation on the bill. This, in view of the many practices of this coalition and the government of Janez Janša, raises renewed concern. Ladies and gentlemen, interventions into the mandates of the Heads of State Administration have already become a permanent part of this Government. We have seen something similar and heard about replacing the police station commanders with the chiefs, if I only point out one of the many cases. As the Customs Union warns us, proposals also do not constitute a higher legal certainty for the debtors, as they create new uncertainties in procedures, which is also attached to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points to several inconsistencies in the legislative text. The lack of clarity in the new procedures brought to the attention of the Union and the Legal and Legislative Service do not therefore bring legal certainty. More complex procedures with unclear powers tend to benefit only those who wish to avoid their tax obligations or to initiate complaints and re-establish the procedures already completed. To everyone else, mud water only stimulates business and increases distrust of the system. At the same time, it is clear that the adoption of this proposal would enable the immediate initiation of a procedure for the appointed new heads of all tax offices. This is supported by the last article proposed to enter into force on the day of publication in the Official Journal, but not only after the standard procedure, the deferred period of at least 15 days. Why it is necessary to enforce the law so quickly, the applicant cannot justify anything unless it is the objective of the rulings to conduct the human resources competitions within a short period of time when they are still in control of the supremacy of power. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we find it difficult to believe that the objectives of the bill are only higher legal certainty and greater efficiency, and without interpretation it is clear that the adoption of this law would allow the Government and the Director of FURS to adopt a new series of staff replacements in the professional state service and therefore we cannot support this proposal to the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u33	Thank you, too. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a new Law on Financial Administration follows the improvement of the legal security of the debtors in procedures, the improvement of the organisational functioning of the financial administration and thus the greater efficiency of the financial administration, while fulfilling all the conditions for the legitimate and proper management of procedures, the appropriate and effective legal security of the parties and ensuring equal protection of rights. These objectives are pursued by several solutions: following the example of the Director-General of the Financial Administration, the mandate for the Director of the Financial Offices is laid down. The chairman of the financial management will appoint the Director of the Financial Offices for a period of five years following the selection procedure on the basis of an internal or public tender. College decision-making is introduced in a college of three officials in some of the most demanding cases of the tax procedure. The Chair will be able to appoint an expert consultative body to address professional issues such as virtual currencies, financial matters, insurance. The body may be composed of representatives of the financial administration and external experts. The arrangements governing the withdrawal of powers by the chairman shall be supplemented. It shall be decided that, in the event that an inspector violates the rules governing and deciding a particular procedure in the event of repeated irregularities in the decision-making process, he may assign the matter to another inspector. In the light of clarity, the condition for the introduction of a financial investigation is complemented. In order to improve the legal certainty of the parties, amendments and additions are proposed in such a way as to make the inspection more clear after the completion of the financial investigation. The records kept and maintained by the Financial Administration shall also include the records of farm households. The provisions of Article 9 of the Law which provides for the regulation of local jurisdiction by the FURS Financial Offices Regulation shall be amended so that local jurisdiction is no longer subject to this Regulation. The Financial Administration is not organised territorially and is a single body, the General Financial Office and the Financial Offices are its internal organisational units, and they are not independent administrative bodies and therefore their local competence cannot be discussed. At the proposal of the representative unions, stamps shall be introduced for officials. The badges shall be part of an official’s business card if they do not perform their duties in uniform. The proposal for a new law as a whole brings about a clear regulation of the area and allows for a greater level of control and responsibility and expertise in the functioning of the financial administration, so we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u35	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u36	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a new law on financial management seeks to improve the legal certainty of the parties by allowing for faster organisation of the work of the internal financial administrations and by improving the efficiency and quality of the financial administration. The solutions contained in the novels came under the auspices of the Working Group, which worked within the framework of the Tax System Upgrade Council set up by the Minister of Finance in December 2020. The current Director-General of FURS mag was a member of the working group. Ivan Simič, who claimed last May that at the FURS summit he would only be temporarily acting as Acting Director-General, but apparently changed his mind and ran for a permanent five-year term, which he also received. The introduction of college decision-making in the most demanding cases of tax procedures is an important positive innovation, where the expected tax obligation exceeds EUR 500 000. It is an inspection of connected persons or an assessment of the tax base if the expected tax liability exceeds EUR 100,000. At the same time, the bill also contained some extremely controversial marriage solutions, which were partially eliminated by complementary coalitions. Thus, the law originally provided for the withdrawal of powers from the Inspector by the Chief Inspector if, in a particular case, the Inspector violated the rules of management and decision-making without the exercise of disciplinary proceedings. Our legislation, whether it is public servants or employees in the economy, lays down the infringement procedure for every intervention in the right and obligation. Such a procedure requires constitutional regulation, as it confers on each individual the right to a declaration of a remedy, and it is ultimately a transparent procedure that dissuades any doubts about the bias or arbitrariness of the decision. Although the coalition supplement has put an intervention into the rights of the inspector following the disciplinary procedure carried out, it raises a legitimate question to all why this provision was necessary at all and why it is still part of the law. Whether it was the government's intention to allow a politically motivated supervisor to punish an inspector and remove him from a particular case because his decisions were not in his will. Why, however, is he still insisting on depriving himself of the power to conduct a specific tax procedure, and the law contains unclear criteria that distance us from the belief that the chairpersons will act on the basis of an objective decision. At the same time, in the SAB, the social liberals are reminded of the controversial amendment of Article 100 of the law, which refers to a financial investigation. I recall that, in January this year, customs prevented the budget from being damaged by EUR 6.8 million as part of the investigation, as they seized several tons of counterfeit cigarettes, chopped tobacco, alcohol and fuel. Therefore, to whom does such a change serve, if we know that tobacco products are illegally produced in Slovenia, so that alcohol and fuel are sold in black without payment of taxes. It also warns the Customs Union of Slovenia, which considers that the amendment to the Article governing the scope of financial investigations is water on the mill to criminal associations for excise fraud, which from now on will work unhinderedly and for their budget while the supervisory authority becomes a toothless tiger. More and more indications suggest that the Government will also this time be under the pretext of improving the organisation of financial administration and greater legal protection in the reception of subsets something that will only benefit privileged voters. If that were not the case, it would have already been explained to the Ministry's representatives on the working body why the intervention in the already regulated and functioning system would have been deprived of the powers of inspectors. In the SAB, we will oppose the bill. The SAB will not support the proposed novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after item 5 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE RURAL FRAMEWORK LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I'm guessing there's no government representative. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. There's no chairman of the committee either. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 95th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. As I am informed that the amendments have been tabled in accordance with point 1 of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall assign a 15-minute recess and we shall continue the meeting at 11.40 minutes. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 11.24 a.m.) (The sitting resumed at 11.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u38	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the interruption of the agenda. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 8a and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing it's an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with a fellow Member, welcome to the Slovenian Parliament! I am pleased that before us the Mining Act, which after a decade of fighting to protect Prekmurje, Pomurje and Slovenia from dangerous fracking technology, has brought a solution that will obviously be adopted unanimously; not only have we tabled this by the opposition, but the amendment has been adopted in a similar way in the coalition. I will not talk about history, but obviously there must be a certain amount of water or so and so much time - it is important that we agree on this issue today. I would like to say that the protection of Prekmurje from fracking is of course not a Slovenian invention. Fracking, this dangerous technology, which is not only dangerous because of chemicals but is also dangerous because of the potential impacts on earthquakes, has already been banned in many European countries and elsewhere. They used a precautionary principle. Slovenia, which is significantly smaller than most of the comparable countries where the ban occurred, is also more sensitive. In fact, the unfortunate moment that could have happened would have affected Slovenia more significantly than, say, Poland, Germany or Canada, because of size. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. I will also support it because there is a single position here of NGOs, including Prekmurje and Pomurje as a whole and the Lendava municipality, where fracking is supposed to take place. I understand this as an important step, not nearly enough to protect nature, natural resources and combat climate change, but I am glad that after ten years of fighting we have come so far. And let me, as Prekmurec, as Prekmurek's representative to all of you who voted in favour of this amendment on the committee, and you will also support it today, like the law, I thank you in advance. We're grateful. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u40	Thank you, too. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Of course, you can't think how happy I am that I was five times the proponent of our mining novel, which we wanted to ban from cracking, and somehow there was no listening. That's how I am now, as far as this fracking thing's concerned, overjoyed. I would, however, warn – and that is why today we have proposed a precautionary amendment in Levica – that transitional provisions should be included in our new law, and this was a little lacking. After all, it is a matter of protecting national interest in the event that Ascent Resources chooses to sue us. In fact, we propose that a transitional period should also be regulated in the transitional provisions. That is why we have tabled an amendment for a new 62a article to deal with. Indeed, it is an important explanation of the amendment, which would become part of the law by the adoption of the law and which would explain that the prohibition of fracking is in the express public interest, which it is. And this needs to be put in place as a supplement to the law, in order to protect the state from any attempts by Ascent Resources, which in any case would probably follow. It should be easy to have in law that only more protected. We know that a proportionality test has also been carried out, which by adopting the amendment would also become part of this law. And the justification for the public interest, as it is said to point out, unfortunately there is still a lack in this text and I see no reason why not all of this together. To protect ourselves as much as possible, right? Because you yourself mentioned that the concession holder threatens the country of Slovenia. And we, of course, need to be optimally protected. But then we'll discuss individual amendments so I won't be too wide now. Now, of course, if the amendment of the Left, the SD, the LMŠ in that problematic 150.f article, which we are talking about, if everything else will be arranged there as it should be, then of course I will be very happy and of course we will be very happy to support the law in its entirety. But if I don't have to say that despite the extraordinary joy of fracking, of course, the story doesn't end only in fracking when we're talking about protecting the environment. You need to look at it whole, integrally. And if this 150.f article is not cleared up today, which is problematic, in an appropriate way, then I will unfortunately have to abstain despite everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u42	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and in particular. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenije and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and in particular. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and in particular. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenija and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on this article. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SDS, Nova Slovenije and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 60, as well as the amendments of the LMŠ and Levica groups of Members and the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u43	Thank you very much. In Levika we join in this problem-stricken article 150.f, which was subsequently added to the law by the amendment of the coalition. In fact, what you have added means some justified expectation of private capital, that it is given before the nature of the reservations and, of course, that is wrong. The problem of what you have done is, in fact, you yourself have also been aware, because you have written so correctly to the greatest extent possible that the exploitation should be carried out by quoting “to the greatest extent possible the protection of nature”, but this so-called maximum measure is a very relative concept. What does that actually mean? It means that this maximum measure will be determined from case to case, which, of course, cannot be written in some law so loosely that it is then left to some judgment from case to case. If you were really interested in protecting nature, then you might want to defend things, but perhaps you might want to reason why some institution would not provide guidance that mining is not being carried out, but try to take into account, to the greatest extent possible, the legitimate expectations of capital, but not that you have done so by giving capital priority to protecting nature and thereby giving priority to the constitutional right of people to a healthy environment, which ultimately affects human health, if nothing else. In short, there should be the greatest possible measure, if any, but, as the law says, such definitions are not usually given, which are so loose. The law must be so designed that things are perfectly clear and there is no dilemma here, and therefore we join in supporting this amendment, which we have proposed together in SD, LMŠ and Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u44	Thank you, too. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Sometimes it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that the ruling coalition or government does not agree in any law in the National Assembly, literally does not, and this has happened in this Mining Law, even though it has, or still has, if our proposal is adopted, all the possibilities of being unanimously supported, namely, by the greatest stumbling block, this is a faction, it has experienced virtually unanimous support in Slovenia to ban itself completely and this has opened the door to this law wide to really get the widest possible support, but then the government will come again with some determination to do everything in the opposition to turn us against itself. And now we have the opportunity to virtually unanimously support the amendments to the Mining Act, of course if we all find that this 60th article, for which we are proposing in the LMŠ and with partner parties, is an unnecessary deletion, because this article is discriminatory and poses a significant risk to the field of nature protection. Why is he unnecessary? The current Mining Act already regulates the possibility of renewing existing rights, concessions also regulates the conditions for this, and there is no need for you to return to the law to provide that mining rights are extended to concessionaires who perform mining public service even if they do not have the right to carry out mining works on land and do not have the obtained consent of any other rightholders on those land. The holders of existing mining rights are not able to exercise certain expected rights because of their previously acquired status, but there is no expected right and the Supreme Court in this regard provides that the expected rights can only be dealt with if the latter is so finished as to represent a secured situation, a safeguard situation cannot be based solely on the assumption that a right has been created. We therefore propose that this unnecessary provision should be deleted, but, of course, we are also disturbed by this supplement, which you have returned in 150.f. and which provides for new exceptions to mining rights in protected areas, it is envisaged that the Ministry responsible for mining may propose the issuance of a mining concession act and that the government may also adopt this concession act, and this is important, even without a positive nature-protection opinion under the provisions of the law governing nature conservation. So there is a danger of an intervention in the natural protection zones. Furthermore, the continuation of the fact that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature, irrespective of the provisions of the Regulation on Special Protection Areas, may provide such nature protection guidelines so that the envisaged use of spatial acts can be carried out at the maximum possible level of nature protection. Here, too, we have not received a clear answer in the debate so far, of course, because it can also be, what does this mean most, how this is actually measured, with what measurement unit, and, of course, we are proposing that this 60th article be deleted in its entirety. With the possible support of our proposal in the LMŠ, we will have no reservations to support the amendment of the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss it besides Primož Siter? [[No, no, ……]] Go ahead, Siter. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u47	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. Good afternoon, fellows and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'll agree with my predecessors in particular. I think colleague Natasa Sukić has made an excellent presentation of the main challenge that lies ahead of us in this part of the law. This “legislation” is a way of balancing the interest of environmental conservation on the one hand and the interest of capital conservation on the other. Now, if we look at, in fact, time from the industrial revolution to today, we see that it was always some "ping pong" between these two. Fortunately, and as all the alarms burn in recent decades, in public and in politics, we are increasingly putting environmental and nature conservation at the forefront and the importance of the profession in nature conservation, environmental conservation. Now, this law, which we are discussing now, is essentially jumping decades ago. Decades ago, developmental decades ago and instead of the benefits of environmental conservation, environmental concerns put the interests of capital first. Now, with the greatest possible protection of nature, the real proposal of the law, with the greatest possible protection of nature, should be affected, that is, when we are talking about fracking, mining, intervention or other intervention, now, we are, I think, all of us are clear at the time of the climate crash at the point when, to the greatest extent possible, we are no longer sufficient. If it is clear to policy makers that, to the greatest extent in maintaining the environment and preventing the deepening of the climate crisis, there is no longer enough. Take a look at the average temperatures, look at the number of natural disasters, and you'll see where we are and where politicians have brought them, and these were nice, to the greatest extent environmental protection. There's no compromise. In this Chamber we are probably some average age, I would say, about 50 years old, which means that if we support policies that are just the most ambitious of environmental protection, we are at least very selfish because we have half a country that is younger than us and is our first moral and political duty, of course, the basis for survival, which is a purely safe environment and also a constitutional category, to keep it going. So, from a policy that says it is progressive, it is to be expected that environmental protection, protection against climate crisis deepening and climate breaking will remain uncompromising in the first place. Now again, no, here on the other hand, it is understood the voice and power of capital that has always been here in this century's pingpong and has always won and what I see here in this particular proposal is translated into lowering standards or maintaining environmental standards in these environmentally controversial practices such as mining, fracking, fossil fuel extraction, and it is important to note, and here again I speak from the title of someone who lives in the mining region and who can firsthand tell how to extract coal or mining affects the environment more widely. See, lowering environmental standards, ping-ponk with capital is always translated into a negative environmental impact, resulting poverty of the region for any economic development, social well-being. See Zasavje, who is leading in the brain's escape, the labour force in emigration, which is leading in negative statistics in employment, GDP per capita, etc. And if politics is not determined to fix these things, to make a fair transition, then we can have the next episode of this series in a joke, on a joke, and somewhere else, in Petišovci, when there is no cracking, etc. The environmental crisis is never just environmental. The environmental crisis is an immediate economic, immediate social crisis, so it is our first duty to put on top of our priorities a fair transition, a fair transition that is not just a green transition that is not about, stop driving cars on diesel or stop digging coal, but think about it and implement strategies how from the situation where we today, when we depend on coal, switch to something that will be climate-acceptable, which will not bankrupt the planet and its resources, and we will be socially as a society, survive and be richer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one else wants to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular Article 62a. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 67 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want a word here? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE GASILITY LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of Mags. Janez Jacqueline. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Members and Members! Organised firefighting has more than 150 years of tradition in Slovenia. Currently, a thousand 300 fire brigades operate in Slovenia in voluntary firefighting companies. At present, over 35,000 operational firefighters, over 6,000 reserve firefighters, and nearly 13,000 train drivers are registered there. In addition to voluntary fire brigades, we have 13 professional units in Slovenia, which are organised as a public fire department. They work together about 650 professional firefighters. All these figures give a clear picture that firefighters are the most numerous and at the same time the most operational force in the system of protection against natural and other disasters or in the field of protection and rescue. In 2021, there were 24 000 600 activations in the event of natural and other accidents, as many as 23 000 500 activations linked to professional, voluntary and industrial firefighting units. Together, nearly 134 thousand firefighters were involved in these activations. The proposal for a Law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act deals with the contents or areas of fire control which, in practice, in the implementation of the current applicable Firearms Act, have demonstrated the need for a different regime. The fact is that the most recent major changes to the law were prepared in 2005 and that development changes have taken place in the organisation, equipment and operation of firefighting during these 17 years. During the drafting of the bill, other proposals were submitted by different stakeholders and were also addressed by the proposer, which significantly helped to understand the breadth of necessary and necessary amendments and to supplement the law, and those identified as necessary by the applicant, together with the umbrella organisations in the field of firefighting (the Slovenian Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters) and following the basic objective of the law. enable the further development of firefighting and increase the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting and the public fire service. Let me touch on the most important solutions to the proposed law. The new definition is the operational tasks of firefighting carried out by firefighting organisations as a public fire service and are in line with the fundamental principle of firefighting as humanitarian activities free of charge. Other fire-fighting tasks have been identified. This creates a legal basis for the performance of tasks that can be carried out as a gainful activity under the conditions and restrictions laid down by law. In the case of professional firefighters, a condition is laid down for the completion of prescribed training for firefighters. Interventions have also been defined more clearly and more specifically. It is also a different definition of the concept of fire-extinguishing properties. A condition is added for the fire brigade to be a professional or voluntary unit which is an integral part of a firefighter's organisation. We introduce firefighters and veteran firefighters into the law. The definition of a voluntary firefighter carrying out the operational tasks of firefighting is complemented by an emphasis on operationality. The draft law, in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data, governs the scope of the records. The possibility of organising a joint fire brigade for several companies operating their activities in the area is introduced on individual rounded industrial complexes. It is also possible to make sense [[sign for the end of the debate]] the application of the provisions of Article 14a of the Firearms Act to professional firefighters in a professional core. As has already been said, the bill was fully prepared in cooperation with key stakeholders of the Firehouse Association and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. The proposed amendments and additions have been in preparation for several years. At the end of 2021, the proposal was definitively aligned with the roofs [[sign for the end of the debate]] organisations which have also given written consent to this amendment on the proposal of the law. Respectable. The fire sector needs a regulatory update to ensure the operational and efficiency of the country's most numerous rescue forces in the future. I therefore propose that you confirm the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Andre Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u51	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State. The Defence Committee is at its 31st emergency session, 8. 3. 2022, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Defence, the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, the Trade Fire Union of Slovenia, the Institute for Fire and Rescue Services of Séžan and the Association of Municipal Municipal municipalities of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the opposition LMŠ, Levica, SAB and the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Articles 7, 12 and 24 of the proposed law. The Left Group tabled amendments to Articles 15, 16 and 17 of the proposed law. The amendments were also tabled by the coalition SDS, Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats and specifically by Articles 2, 3, 5, 9, 10, 13, 23, 28, 30, 33 and 42. The Committee held an introductory debate on the proposal by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc for a public presentation of opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Firearms Act and did not adopt this proposal. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Janez Jakelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, presented the main objectives and main solutions to the bill. The basic objective of the bill is to enable the further development of firefighting and to enhance the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of operational tasks of firefighting. The contents of the amendments and the addition of the Firearms Act focus on the implementation of the public fire service and do not address the status issues of professional firefighters. This dialogue takes place in negotiations on the normative work of the collective agreement on the activity of professional firefighting. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Andreja Kurent pointed out that, according to the nomotechnic rules, the applicant should prepare a new proposal for the law. The PSC also pointed out that the draft law, according to their assessment, was incompatible with several laws. Mr Ozimič, National Council of State, said that the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law touched on those areas in firefighting which had in practice been shown to be complemented and corrected in the applicable Firearms Act. That is why the Commission supported the bill. Members of the coalition parliamentary groups supported the bill in the debate. Members of the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Non-Aligned Members also said that they would not object to the proposal. However, the Members of the Marjan Sarca Group and the Levica Group expressed their concerns about the legislative proposal. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 5, 9, 10, 13, 23, 28, 30, 33 and 42. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Group of the Left, the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek and the Group of the Non-Aligned Members of the Group of the Parties on 7 and 12 and 24. The Committee has also not adopted amendments to Articles 15, 16 and 17 of the draft law. At the proposal of the Group of Ambassadors, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 31 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A nice greeting to all present, especially the government representatives! Firefighting is now a compulsory local public service which, as a humanitarian activity, carries out fire-fighting and rescue tasks, preventive fire-prevention tasks, and the protection and rescue of people and property in the event of natural disasters. The fire organisation has evolved over the years into a modern humanitarian organisation. Slovenia has far the highest percentage of firefighters per population, so it will have no problems with membership in the future. This will also be done by working successfully with young people. It counts more than 162 thousand members and members of 1,405 fire companies, and is the largest humanitarian organisation in Slovenia, as has already been said. The operative firefighters are about 50,000. Our opinion on firefighting is that it is a very well-organised and respected work. Firefighters sacrifice their time and often risk their lives to help people with fires and other operational tasks. The firefighting organisation has officially become the most important and most numerous general rescue service in the system of protection against natural and other disasters and an important factor in ensuring national security in this area. In addition to professional firefighters, we also have voluntary firefighting, which is an important humanitarian organisation, is more than just firefighting, and is part of the national identity, culture and institution of national customs. Because people feel this presence of firefighters in their mission because they can count on their services when they are in distress, they often help firefighters with voluntary contributions, even when money is collected for a new vehicle and equipment. For the past two years, firefighters, especially volunteer firefighters, have operated in a limited number due to the Covid situation of 19. The competitions and training are unfortunately, they have not been carried out, members have not been associated with each other, but the contacts and common awareness of the aid have remained. Firefighting is a highly interlinked community of people, as it works towards a common goal: helping and saving people. Usually, the reason to enter the firefighters is kindness, kindness, assistance to people, firefighting, and companionship. Firefighters spend a lot of free time helping people in distress, thus contributing to better society. Today, in many places firefighting societies are the ones that bring together and connect people, these activities and activities, especially in the field of fire protection and cultural and other areas. In the Slovenian space, even in the countryside, it is virtually impossible to imagine a place without a firehouse or fire-fighting activity. Firefighting is often the heart of a particular place. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Firearms Act will be unanimously supported by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, with the team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. Today, we are considering a government amendment to the Firearms Act, which is intended to enable the further development of firefighting and to enhance the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the public fire service's operational tasks. The law redefines the tasks of firefighting, provides a legal basis for the performance of firefighters, regulates the field of firefighters and the conditions for the management of professional firefighting units, provides an adequate number of operational firefighters to carry out the tasks of the fire service, regulates the records in the field of firefighting and, last but not least, regulates the training of firefighters. According to the proposal of the novelty, a condition for professional firefighters will be required for the completed prescribed training for professional firefighters. The law also renews a number of concepts and newly regulates their meaning. In the light of the distinction between professional firefighters and other persons employed in firefighter organisations, the proposal introduces a new term of firefighter. In the context of voluntary firefighting, however, the novelty provides for a new definition of the fire extinguisher of the trainee and the veteran firefighter. The proposal below also sets out more clearly the voluntary firefighter who performs the operational tasks of firefighting. With all these changes, the novel is an important step forward in regulating the status of firefighters. Non-aligned Members believe that the important novelty, which will have positive economic consequences, represents the reorganisation of operational fire brigades in companies which, in accordance with this law, have to organise an operational firefighting unit, as the proposal introduces the possibility of organising a joint firefighting unit for several companies, institutions and other organisations operating in the area on a case-by-case basis. Such units, we believe, due to a large number of firefighters and equipment, will be largely operationally ready for fire and other accidents. So far, it has been considered that each company had to organise its own firefighting unit, as it also entails a considerable financial cost both for the organisation and for the operation of the individual firefighting unit. In this bill, which was last updated in 2005, it seems important to us in particular that it is supported by both the Fireworks of Slovenia, which is the umbrella organisation of voluntary firefighting as well as the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, stating that the content of the law will be more clearly written and made easier for Slovenian firefighters by amendments and additions. On the other hand, we are deeply saddened that the creation of a roof law in the field of firefighting has not been coordinated with the Slovenian trade fire union, especially with regard to the provision that firefighters in professional sails in voluntary firefighting companies should be treated in the same way as employees in professional units. Firefighters and firefighters are, in fact, indispensable and, as a rule, always the first on the scene of all accidents. By their quick and appropriate response, they save lives and property and protect the environment, while risking their health and lives both at home and abroad, so we see them as heroes. But between us they enjoy a special city and a high trust. Their common role in ensuring collective security at the time of the epidemic was also invaluable. Non-aligned Members continue to advocate an improved situation in the field of firefighting as an important humanitarian activity in the public interest, including the improvement of the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters, so we believe that our common objective must be to ensure, as soon as possible, an adequate regulatory and systemic framework that will regulate the status of firefighters, to highlight the career path for professional firefighters and, on the other hand, to ensure safe conditions for the work of firefighters and sufficient funding for their work, quality equipment and appropriate intervention vehicles. This would also represent a symbolic gesture and recognition of the sacrificial work of firefighters and firefighters, which is not comparable to any other profession due to the few specifics of the profession. We will not oppose the unconnected Members of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Especially the guests from the Ministry. We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act on the table table submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Firefighting is a humanitarian activity and a noble mission. The work of firefighters is responsible and also risky and requires good physical condition, health and courage. In voluntary firefighter companies acting in the public interest, 1299 fire brigades in Slovenia are registered with 35,000 firefighters, about 6,000 reserve operatives and 13,000 trainees. In total, over 160,000 members of firefighters and firefighters are included in voluntary firefighting companies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the contribution of firefighting, as we know that firefighters are the largest and most operational force in the system of protection against natural and other disasters or in the field of protection and rescue in the country. Therefore, we express our gratitude and respect for all firefighters for your courageous work and noble mission, and we support the changes that will enable your quality work to continue. The basic objective of the proposal for amendments to the Firearms Act is to allow for further development, greater coherence, rationality and efficiency in the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting. The draft law and the proposed amendments touch on all areas of firefighting, amending the articles of the current law, which have in practice been shown to be obsolete and, after feasibility, non-operational. The current Firearms Act was last amended 16 years ago and its articles are therefore no longer relevant as a basis for the effective implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law have been prepared for several years and have also been aligned at the end of 2021 with all important stakeholders, namely the Association of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. They've also been aligned with the government lately. With the amendments and additions submitted, the content of the law will be more clearly recorded and will make it easier for Slovenian firefighters to work. The amendment proposed that the Government, as a proposal for this amendment, sought to achieve the objective of allowing better operational conditions for the work of the fire brigades, and that it also pursues the objective of regulating a number of areas of expertise in the public fire service, as well as a comprehensive update of the field of firefighting. There is also a serious dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and Trade Unions at this time to improve the social and economic situation and to regulate the working situation of professional firefighters, as has already been said, in a turbulent environment that is changing rapidly and we are constantly changing as a society. The need for protection and rescue is also constantly changing the work of firefighters not only to save houses and put out fires, but in years they have become more and more diverse, more and more comprehensive, and this area has also had to be systematically regulated by changes and additions to this present proposal of the Fire Action Act. The proposal for the signature of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, while the Members also received an appeal for the support of the law by the Gasilian Union of Slovenia. Because in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we can listen to our citizens and respect the work of the firefighters we support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Marjan Šarc Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u59	This law or proposal for a new law is being discussed for the first time in plenary today, but in the past, whenever we talked about the issue of firefighting, the government side has always referred to this law. Since the issue of firefighting in Slovenia is one of the most important security systems, we are convinced in the LMŠ that any change requires great caution and, in particular, great attention. The debate on this subject has so far highlighted the diametric opposite arguments, and before the Members could really make a qualitative decision, it would be good to hear all the parties once again with arguments and without time pressure. The coalition refused this option. I think that a few weeks in all of these crises that we have been following so far, which we have heard from one side or the other in all the legal reservations that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has been the least that we can do, but not. I insist that we should not go for policy, but we should certainly pay particular attention and caution to professional support and opinion on amending roof legislation. In addressing this law, we must explicitly stress this, not the issue of politics, it is not the issue of LMSH, the opposition, the coalition. It is not the purpose of this debate to share firefighters with those who care for us regardless of our political affiliation, religious confession, or any other firefighters when we need them and do not ask who they are saving and whose property they are saving. Unfortunately, however, the reality is that Parliament, as a political body, considers the law and ends up making political decisions. Over the past few weeks and months, we have been listening to our proposals for a bill on pay-outs for work in critical situations, particularly in the light of the fact that our proposals are unrealistic, unnecessary and impossible. In the end, however, at least the Government has internalised and tried to resolve the specific issue. We have seen, however, the diametric opinions of people, which are directly addressed by the proposal for a law. On the committee, we were accompanied by two branch associations that advocate the law and two branch associations that oppose the law. In this regard, it was pointed out that, in 2019, harmonised proposals were withdrawn from the draft law, which means that the current ruling policy was directly involved in professional solutions. Let me make this clear again. Harmonised proposals, professional proposals, have fallen out of the draft law. Someone has made this decision and has to take responsibility for it, because it's actually not right. Firstly, because it takes a very important element from the negotiating process. That's trust. Doesn't matter, actually, who's in charge. If one thing is “negotiated” and written down, let it be done, but not changed after another minister takes over in his own hands. And in the light of this responsibility, we have before us an amendment to the law, which the Legislative and Legal Service considers to be in violation of the entire series of laws and potentially in a series of legal solutions, in breach of the whole Constitution. On the other hand, we have the Association of Slovenia, which otherwise supports the law, but in the same breath claims that the current system is good and that it works. I don't understand and we don't understand in the List of Marjan Sarcas, this urgency, this urgency. It would be most reasonable for the proposer, namely the Government, to withdraw the law, complete it, harmonize it and abolish it. [[sign for the end of the debate]] at least elementary legal concerns or warnings and thus prevent the division within the firefighting industry in Slovenia, but this will certainly not happen. In our view, the law is necessary, and the proposal for a specific law that we have on the table is extremely incomplete, and we will talk more about it in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Social Democrats, as we have already said on the working body, will not oppose the proposed amendment to the law, but I would like to say our opinion further. The 150-year tradition of voluntary firefighting in Slovenia is reflected in the fact that fire companies are practically in every Slovenian village and we all support it. Firefighting today represents a well-organised organization of people throughout the territory of Slovenia, which has grown beyond its basic task of extinguishing and rescue in the event of fires and has evolved into a modern, humanitarian and non-party organization. Members and members of the fire brigade are unselfishly helping anyone who is in any kind of accident and who gives people social support. That is why in the National Assembly, we must work superscientifically in the design of marriage solutions. However, legislation must be clear, comprehensible, also predictable in terms of the principle of legal certainty, and unfortunately, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed to this inconsistencies. She also warned that due to the number of amendments and additions, we would need a new law, such as that of interfering with [[?]] the powers of local communities and that the articles are contradictory among themselves. So briefly on the 16th-party opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the proposal for the novel Fire Action Act is inconsistent with several laws and even inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments and additions were prepared during the three governments, three ministries and several secretaries of state. Before the coming of the current minister, many legal solutions had already been aligned with stakeholders, but we have noticed that some of them had fallen out of the proposal for the novel Fire Action Act. The Trade Firefighters Union has forwarded comments on the age limitation of firefighters at the airport, records of personal data bases, firefighters in the professional core, voluntary firefighting units and obligations for joint firefighting units in the surrounding industrial complex. Their comments were largely disregarded. This point might also highlight a solution that is new and allows a joint firefighting unit for several companies, institutions and other organisations operating in this area to be organised on individual industrial complexes. The legislation in force lays down the obligation for each company to organise its firefighting unit. I am assessing that this is not a bad solution, but it is important to be careful about doing so and to consult the trade firefighters' union, which have had different comments on this matter before the formation of such units. Not to mention the introduction of personal data databases. This government has an incredible desire to collect all possible personal data. After an in-depth examination of the proposed amendment to the Firearms Act, it should also be noted that public participation in the drafting of the draft law has been presented. The bill was on e-democracy in public treatment since 12. 3rd year 2019 to 12. On 4th of 2019, a public presentation of the law continued at the Education Centre for Protection and Rescue at Igu, 24. 4. 2021, two years later, and only 23. 11. 2021. Why is it so late? Respectable proponents of the proposed amendment to the Fire Action Act, in view of the stated speed of harmonisation of the proposal of the Social Democrats Act, we estimate that this law may be better prepared, has already been implemented, not that the law is under consideration and adopted [[sign for the end of the debate]] Send it like that before the elections. Perhaps the government is also counting on it to raise political points on this account if it opposes the marriage proposal by opposition parties in the electoral campaign. As I have already said in the introduction, the Social Democrats will not object to the proposal, but it is right to point out, above all, how the current government wants to resolve matters that should have been settled long ago just before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u63	President, thank you for your word. Every law that belongs to the National Assembly, especially those laws that come from the governmental side, can be judged on three different criteria. The first is the law-making process, the involvement of all stakeholders, usually covered by the word social dialogue - this happened, as it was, are the real needs of organisations of people, groups concerned by the law, satisfied and covered or not. The second point of the assessment is the nomotechnics, usually touching the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, i.e. how the commas and dots in the law stand, the articles are mutually compatible, the meaning of how a specific law is incorporated into the entire legislative body, in which it is to be incorporated after its adoption in the National Assembly, may be stricken with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The third point of the opinion is the very specific content - whether, according to the political views, ideas and ideology that we represent in the National Assembly, they are found in some specific law, or whether there may be such provisions in the law that we can only and only oppose from our ideas and visions of society. I made this introduction for one sad reason, because the Government's Firearms Act laid down all points of judgment, all three of them. To begin, we can touch on the social dialogue that the Ministry of Defence has not conducted with unionised firefighters in the last two years. Moreover, Minister Tonin has worked hard to get the unionised firefighters to play. Even when, as a result of the government's ignorance, they were held in a protest meeting, Minister Tonin did not accept them, on the contrary. He organised a photo term simultaneously in a fire exhibition in Kranj while the unionised firefighters camped for their labour rights and the right to social dialogue in front of his ministry. Social dialogue is like that. The second point of the Firearms Act is the issue of nomotechnics. In the case of a relatively simple law, the Law-Laundering Service has reached out to the 16th page of its comments. Without going into detail, it is sufficient that in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service we can understand how the provisions of the law are intertwined and that they are in conflict with a whole bunch of the remaining laws that we have in this country and which are in force in this country. In view of the fact that this law has been prepared for years and not only the brain fruit of the current government, but also some governments and facilities at the Ministry of Defence since earlier, I seriously wonder what boys and girls in this Ministry of Defence are actually doing and why citizens and citizens are being paid if, after years of packing under one law, relatively simple marriages in the National Assembly, they are brought into law by provisions that are plagued by the five remaining laws and which raise the question of how much they actually survive potential judgment in the Constitutional Court. The third point of why the Fire Action Act is inappropriate on the part of the government is this concrete content, which we normally make the most of our parliamentary debates. And here we find very quickly that the government's purpose in this law was not only to refer to the union of firefighters and to the unionised firefighters of workers, but to make them as impossible as possible and to remove them not only from the current operation but also from any future commitment to the labour rights of firefighter workers. Thus, between the provisions of the Firearms Act, for example, we find the potential to make the sentence difficult, which will be translated into realisation very quickly. Firefighters are prevented from using their work equipment in their union efforts. Kind of like industrial workers going on a strike without their distinctive blue suit. Absurd. It is even more absurd that, by prescribing an intervention in the health conditions for the performance of a firefighter, it is possible to facilitate the dismissal of firefighter workers and, of course, discrimination in the additions between professional firefighters employed in professional units and professional firefighters employed in voluntary societies, the restriction of the collective contract, the inadequate payment and the status of trainee firefighters who cease education and so on, all of these are reasons why we cannot even praise this Fires Act even less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u65	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The current Firearms Act was passed in 1993 and minor amendments were completed in 1999 and 2005. All industry groups, including the Ministry of Defence, are aware that the current Firearms Act needs to be moved to the present, so in 2016 the first discussions began on how to bring legislation closer to the development of technology, to the situation in the Republic of Slovenia and to what does in the law, what does not and is only a dead letter on paper. Six years of efforts have been made in the proposal for a new Firearms Act, for which most industry organisations on the Defence Committee have confirmed that it represents significant progress. In Nova Slovenija we support the proposed solutions that introduce an additional concept of firefighter and firefighter veterans in the field of voluntary firefighting, which will further strengthen the types of voluntary firefighting in Slovenia. We grant Slovenia's fire liaison with the law the power to train voluntary firefighters. We are introducing a novelty that can be organised jointly for several companies, institutions and other organisations carrying out their activities in this area in individual industrial complexes. Such a unit will also be substantially more operationally prepared for fire and other accidents due to the increased number of firefighters and equipment. Amendments are proposed which provide more clearly that the Head of Intervention in exceptional and urgent cases where human life or property is at risk may also interfere with individual constitutional rights such as the inviolability of the dwelling, the use of foreign means of transport, the partial or total destruction of the facility, the restriction or removal of water and other measures which may cause great damage and a great deal of costs. The costs of certain measures and liability insurance resulting from certain measures shall be borne by the municipality or by the State where the State Protection and Rescue Plan has been activated. The Head of Intervention may, following a new order, take photographs and record the site of the event for the purpose of conducting the intervention. The law will make it possible to bring together professional firefighters in an interesting way, within the framework of the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. In this way, we believe that the interest associations of both voluntary and professional firefighters are comparablely regulated. The warmth of firefighters is immeasurable and contributes to the greater integration of local communities, giving the soul and heart to a village, a fourth or a city. Their unselfish distribution is not only demonstrated by interventions, but also by voluntary actions aimed at restoring or modernising a firehouse, a driving park or equipment that saves lives. By approving the law, firefighting organisations, in addition to the operational tasks of firefighting, for example, the implementation of the fire guard, fire protection measures, can also be carried out as a profitable activity. This will make it easier to obtain the necessary resources to improve the operation of the fire brigade. In Novi Slovenija, we thank the Ministry of Defence for its six-year debate with decisive steps, but at the same time with the inclusion of all the fire brigades, it has led to a joint recast of the Fire Action Act. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we are convinced that this is a step in the direction of firefighting legislation and that the situation of both professional and voluntary firefighters is better regulated, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Finally, we also call for support from all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, because it is a matter of supporting the community's work and trusting the firefighters, in which we believe and know that we can all be united. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u67	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the long-awaited amendment to the Firearms Act. The original law was passed in 1993 and firefighting has changed considerably during that time, but no comprehensive legal reform has been carried out. Many times in the National Assembly of New Slovenia we hear about the importance of social dialogue, but unfortunately in practice this has proved to be of no importance to it. The novelty has been prepared since 2016, but in a way that involves all relevant stakeholders. The latest version of the novel, which we are considering today and under which the current Minister of Defence of the People of New Slovenia is signed, excludes trade unions and their already harmonised proposals with the previous Ministry without any explanation. While the Novela is aligned with the umbrella firefighters' organisations, the Firefighters' Association of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, the Labour Party, which is in the Trade Fire Union domain, is completely neglected, which means that this Trade Union Government does not consider it to be an equal interlocutor and a social partner. Contrary to the above, the Minister proudly presents a novelty as one of the key achievements of his mandate and shares all the merits of alleged coordination with the Information Commissioner. Regrettably, however, the very broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service shows that the novelty is very poorly prepared. It turns out that the proposed solutions are not in line with the applicable personal data protection legislation, the Labour Relations Act, the Public Servants Act, the Fire Protection Act and the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. Below the line, we have an uncoordinated law that has been subject to coordination and preparation for years just ahead of the target. The government excludes trade unions from the coordination stage and thus shows that it does not consider them to be an equivalent social partner. The examination procedure shows that the law has a number of shortcomings that raise the issue of its constitutional compliance. In spite of all the efforts made by the previous governments, it is obvious that in the National Assembly, due to the uncritical voices of those who should advertise for the sake of firefighting, we will adopt a law quickly only to hang a hook on the pre-election posters when we fire. In doing so, this government reports that it does not care about the actual outcome and consequences of the novel, which it would consider to be firefighters and firefighters. We are all aware of the importance and respect of the firefighter's profession, so any change that contributes to improving his situation is welcome. Professional and voluntary firefighters are the bearing pillars of rescue and protection in the event of natural, transport, industrial and other accidents. They are unselfishly helping all citizens and citizens and they are often at risk of their own lives, they are always available and come immediately, and no other similar force in the country will come to our aid in such a short time. At Alenka Bratušek, we agree that efforts should be made to improve the working conditions of both professional and voluntary firefighters. And it is not enough for us to show them respect for their self - sacrifice only with words and hooks. Let us also do so with action. There would be a week or two of additional coordination, the best possible solutions for voluntary professional firefighters would be realized, and the law would be dealt with at a regular March session. Contrary to the above, it is forced by the adoption of a law that raises more questions than answers only to allow a particular party to dissipate its pre-election posters on time for a law that will preserve the inequalities that we are witnessing to them today. In the SAB, we support all solutions that are in favour of firefighters and firefighters, and in particular those that are actually consistent with all stakeholders. I therefore regret today that the Government has not taken advantage of the opportunities and foundations of the previous governments, which have also been able to listen to unions. We will certainly not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! Today, we will decide on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act, whose main objective is to allow for the further development of firefighting, and to increase the coherence, rationality and effectiveness of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting and the public fire service. The new law regulates the content or areas for which, in practice, in the implementation of the current law over the years, there has been a need for a different regulation or improvement of the law regime so far. Let me therefore mention just a few solutions that the amendment of the law cites. The definition of the operational tasks of firefighting carried out by firefighting organisations as a public fire service is changed and is in line with the fundamental principle of firefighting as a humanitarian activity free of charge. Other firefighting tasks are being introduced and a legal basis is being created to carry out these tasks, which, under the conditions and limitations of a particular law, can be carried out as a gainful activity. The importance of a firefighter shall be complemented by a mandatory condition for the completion of prescribed training for firefighters and a new definition shall be given to one firefighter with a view to distinguishing between professional firefighters and other persons employed in firefighter organisations. The concept of intervention is defined more clearly and more specifically and the concept of fire-fighting properties is otherwise defined. The concept of a fire unit is defined by additional condition that it is a professional and voluntary unit which is an integral part of a fire organisation. In coordination with the Information Officer, the proposal for a law in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data is also governed by the area of records maintained by the Ministry of Defence, the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, and the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. The new law also introduces the possibility of organising a joint fire brigade for several companies on individual industrial complexes, to carry out their activities in this area which improves efficiency and also reduces costs for these companies. By replacing the concept of education with the concept of training, the training regime and the definition of training provided by the fire school and by the Fireworks Association of Slovenia are being renewed. The draft law lays down the legal basis for the interesting integration of professional fire brigades and updates the field of activation of fire brigades so that they are actually even more effective. Organized firefighting is one of the most important security systems in the field of protection and rescue or protection against natural and other disasters, and therefore the comprehensive regulation of this area is of crucial importance. The indicator that the law before us today is well prepared is the fact that it has been aligned with both representative companies or covering firefighters organisations, both with the Firefighters Association of Slovenia and with the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. The drafting of the amendment took into account the changes identified by the proposer with the said umbrella organisations as necessary and following this basic objective of the law. We are therefore in the position that in this case the fire department must prevail over political rhetoric. We consider the amendments or innovations in the amendment of the law to be good in the Group of Members, so we will also support the proposal of the Law on Change and Supplementation of the Firearms Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There is talkable information that can be found online that the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, which is the umbrella organisation of voluntary firefighters and firefighters in Slovenia, brings together more than 162 thousand members and members of more than 1300 firefighter companies. Firefighting in Slovenia has an extremely strong community of people who want to volunteer to help others at many very critical times. It is the largest humanitarian volunteer and civil society organisation in Slovenia. Not every member of such a large and courageous family can be. Knowledge, abilities, and, above all, the willingness to come to our aid without question, are qualities that should be exemplary for all of us. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Firearms Act will touch on a number of important points from the definition of operational tasks of firefighting to the more precisely defined concepts and organisation of firefighting units. It is important that we further define the hierarchical structure within the fire-fighting companies themselves, in particular to define those who are beginners or trainees and those who are veterans. For a veteran who is a firefighter and at the age of 45, he fulfils the condition of psychophysical and medical competence to perform a fire service, it is appropriate to remain part of the unit. Only in this way can knowledge and experience be passed on. At the same time, it is just the veterans who, with their experiences, can sometimes approach the solution in a precise and tested way. An important novelty also concerns the organisation of operational fire brigades in companies. It's the end of the time that big factories and industries have organized their own fire brigades. After all, this is also a considerable financial contribution. At the time of the organised small economic groupings within the industrial zone, it is necessary to approach this issue in a different way by organising joint firefighting units for several companies, institutions and other organisations in this area, the logistical and financial costs are reduced. At one time, however, various attempts to circumvent these conditions are further prevented. More companies can easily and more structuredly address fire safety issues and more structurally address the issues of fire safety in their area, and any new company can be more easily integrated into the systems already in place. Finally, we also need to specifically address the creation of new firefighters between us, there are also some voluntary firefighters who will be inadvertently able to say what it really is like to carry out the tasks of firefighting. In the event of a fire or other accident, it could be said to freeze, and then all hours of training and training are extremely important, so that the body is instinctively aware of what to do and exactly, so we need thorough training in case of an accident, that each volunteer and every professional firefighter knows exactly what to do. We must continue to train and educate our firefighters to carry out their work safely and professionally. At the end of the day, on behalf of the Desus Group, let me thank every firefighter and firefighter. I really don't want to ever need your help at one time, but I am aware that throughout Slovenia, they are known as those who would come to our aid and help us without delay. Thank you for all your willingness and your work. I know we can always count on you. Members of the Desus Group will, of course, unanimously support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Firearms Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no second reading of the amendments to the amended draft law was tabled, the second reading of the draft law was concluded. The decision on the bill will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, following the conclusion of item 5 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on the eligibility of firefighters' calls for nuclear free-of-charge gassil units to be added to the risk-of-epidemia allowance in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed Branet Golubović. At its 20th meeting, on 2 March 2022, the draft law was considered by the Defence Committee as the working body of the mother. Since, after the discussion, the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u73	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! In Slovenia we can talk to over 45,000 operational volunteer firefighters, but we have more than a thousand professional firefighters employed in fire brigades or public institutions. Firefighters are, as a rule, always the first on the scene of any accident from the most serious traffic accidents to the resolution of the floor and above the water, and not least the recovery of cats or birds from mysterious positions. There is also the only way to help rescuers who have to get a patient on the 10th floor. Firefighters and firefighters both enjoy a special city and high trust among people in Slovenia. This profession, however, is often overlooked by the preparers. Intervention laws to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic have created imbalances within the wider group of firefighters, as they did not provide for the payment of the additional requirement in the risk situation for professional firefighters employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units, thus placing them in an unequal position compared to other professional firefighters who received the supplement. Public servants are entitled, in accordance with Article 39 of the Public Sector Collective Contract, to work in a risky situation, including the period of the declared epidemic, to pay an allowance for work in a risky situation. Professional firefighters are also entitled to that supplement under Article 14a of the Firearms Act. However, the provisions of this Article do not apply to firefighters in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units, and, of course, they are not subject to the right to payment of the allowance for work in risky situations. Therefore, after a failed first attempt in the legislative process, we have re- tabled the draft law, the main objective of which is to establish a legal basis for the provision of funds for the payment of the allowance for work in risky circumstances also for firefighters employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units, since they have been overlooked in past intervention laws. This would ensure a level playing field for all entities and allow for a level playing field and opportunities for all firefighters. The payment of that supplement would not have only positive financial implications for their beneficiaries, it would also represent a symbolic gesture, recognition of their work, which is not comparable to any other profession due to a few specifics of the profession. In Slovenia, there are about 100 employees in the professions of sails in voluntary firefighting companies and 100 employees left without that supplement. They are subject to the same obligations and rights as professional firefighters in public institutions, except for the first paragraph of paragraph 14a of Article 14a of the Firearms Act, which, in cases such as the epidemic, places them in a very unequal position, even though they must carry out exactly the same tasks and obligations as others. Firefighters are indispensable in so-called natural disasters. In addition, they save lives, save property, protect the environment, and at the same time risk their health and, of course, sometimes life for others. Their self - sacrifice and willingness to help their fellow man were never questionable. People rely on them, and we don't care whether they're professional or they're voluntary or they're professional in voluntary societies. Everyone's doing the same thing and everyone's risking the same. Since we want to eliminate this discrimination in the payment of the allowance for equal work in the same situation and we want to guarantee everyone the same right to pay for this supplement, which they clearly deserve, we have also signed a proposal for a law with unrelated Members, and we have also supported it in dealing with the labour force. At the same time, we note that the political will to eliminate such discrimination and the distinctions between first-class and second-class firefighters in this Parliamentary reference is not present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u75	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. We have a proposal for a law on the eligibility of professional firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units to supplement work in a risky situation at the time of the epidemic. The proposal was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Brana Golubović. Intervention laws to limit and mitigate the effects of the SARS COC-2 pandemic have, according to the applicants, created imbalances within the wider professional group, because they did not provide for job additives in the risk situation for professional firefighters employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units. The proposal aims to address imbalances within the professional group of firefighters and they are major solutions. The main objective of the bill is to establish a legal basis to ensure that the additive is eligible for work in a risky situation at the time of the epidemic for professional firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units, as they were overlooked by the applicant in previous intervention legislation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the bill is well-intentioned, but is also weak. In the proposal for a law, the applicants propose that, irrespective of the law governing firefighting and the law governing protection against natural and other accidents, the beneficiary is entitled to an allowance for work of 65% of the hour’s basic wage of a public official. The beneficiary shall also be entitled to this allowance in the event of a posting to work outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia where there is an epidemic of communicable disease in the area in which the epidemic occurs. Beneficiaries shall be entitled to the payment of the allowance provided for in this Act for the time of epidemics, communicable diseases in 2020 and 2021. So, we'd like to save you back. If the proposal were confirmed, the financial implications would then be around EUR 500 000 for the bill to pay the allowance for work in the risk situation at the time of the epidemic. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the bill to be inappropriate, and the reason is that there is also a proposal for amendments to the Firearms Act, which deals more comprehensively with the field of fire and also addresses the problems and imbalances between professional fire groups, which the proponents wanted to eliminate. There is also a serious dialogue between the Ministry of Defence and Trade Unions at this time to improve the social and economic situation and to regulate the legal position of professional firefighters. It is also, therefore, inappropriate to engage in a legal procedure in the area of regulating wages and rewards for work at risk at a given time and before the conclusion of the negotiations. The Committee for the Defence of the National Assembly rejected the proposal for a law on the eligibility of professional firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units on the basis of a supplement to work in a risky situation during the epidemic and closed the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Robert Pavšič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u77	The credit for saving lives and property cannot be held by any coalition, the opposition, but at least the whole policy. But I have a feeling that the last coalition is more important than anything. The same payment for the same work in performing an extremely important public service is the least that this country must provide. Therefore, in the LMŠ, together with the co-signers, we introduced a law in the procedure which would allow for the payment of allowances for work in a risky situation to professional firefighters who are employed in voluntary firefighting companies. These, namely, were not subject to a collective contract for the public sector. Only because of the status of the employer, i.e., professional firefighters were not entitled to work in a risky situation. For identical work, they were discriminated against for identical public service payments. It didn't work out. The coalition disagreed. It didn't work the first time in September, and obviously it doesn't work now that we've put the law in the second. Otherwise, we will listen and we have already heard how this issue is resolved in the PKP 10, how this issue is resolved in the Firearms Act, which we will also confirm today, but it is necessary to ask: “Is it true?” Following instructions from the Ministry following the adoption of the PKP 10 to pay for the years 2020 and 2021, the first declared epidemic, the first epidemic, was overlooked by the Ministry. Otherwise, they sent her away for our intervention and completed her instructions. But the point lies in the details. I would still accept a possible explanation that there has been a mistake if there were no one interesting fact, namely the issue of taxation. All those who received payments for the implementation of the collective agreement were taxed. Not all firefighters who have received payments of allowances under PKP 10. The government has again managed to create differences within a single group through its own will and political prestige. Again, discrimination has been created. Someone pays the tax and the others don't pay the tax. And we're back to square one. This would not have happened if the coalition or the government had accepted a solution from the opposition, and this issue would have been confirmed in the first attempt. We could have closed that question a long time ago. Well, no. According to you, a special marriage wasn't necessary. You'll make all the arrangements differently. Well, now you've done them by making a copy of our solutions uncritically placed this save the anti-korona law and added that you'll probably turn out even better, even the provision that these supplements are not taxed and thus create new discrimination. Congratulations. Congratulations. You're great. You signed the law, you knocked on your fingers, and finally you did the same thing. It really doesn't matter who's proposing the law, but it's hard to believe that your intentions are sincere. If, as we have already said, we could close this question with your good intentions in the past year, no big speeches, no chest taps, and I don't know what else. But the political decision was different and such a political decision follows both the consequences and the responsibility. But I am happy, truly and truly glad that firefighters and firefighters who form professional sails in voluntary firefighting societies are finally entitled to equality with other colleagues at least as far as the issue is concerned. And especially because of the active political pressure we have exerted in the opposition, of course, together with the support of some, neither coalition nor opposition parties, at least on paper. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Gregor Židan will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u79	honourable Presidents, honourable Members, honourable Members! At the time of the epidemic, individual groups for work in different environments were given supplements due to SARS-COV-2 virus. Many were entitled to the supplement, many were not. However, some have also fallen out of the eligibility of the additive. We believe that the proposed novels include professional firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary fire brigades. The proposed law on the committee was not supported. The representative of the Government, however, justified the rejection of the law by highlighting on 27 December 2021 the Act on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and recovery of the consequences of COVID-19. In that law, there are provisions giving the right to an additive for exposure to danger and a specific burden of 65 % of the hourly basic wage for hours when, at the time of the declared epidemic, a professional firefighter at the professional core of a voluntary firefighting unit carrying out the public fire service’s tasks carried out its work in a risky situation in 2020 and 2021. In fact, the government considered that this area was to be re-arranged by intervention law and by special law. Your Honor! The work of professional firefighters in professional cores in voluntary firefighting units in the Republic of Slovenia is carried out by about 100 individuals and individuals in six voluntary firefighting companies and several firefighting associations. Notwithstanding the different arrangements and the legal basis, the nature and scope of their work do not differ from that of professional firefighters. The intervention laws to limit and mitigate the effects of the SARS-COV-2 pandemic have created imbalances in individual occupational groups. They were no different from the firefighters. There was no provision within the wider fire brigade for the payment of allowances for work at risk for professional firefighters employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units, thereby placing them in an unequal position compared to other professional firefighters. Whether the situation with the intervention law of December 2021 has rectified the situation, we do not know yet. However, we want the Social Democrats to learn from the situation and to have an adequate analysis of how to solve the epidemic as soon as possible, including with errors and negative consequences and financial consequences. It is only in this way that we will be able to deal better and better with such or similar situations in the future, including with appropriate rhetoric. Of course, we all want such experiences to cease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u81	President, thank you for your word. In the last two years, in the simultaneous situation of Covid-19 and government fracturing under Slovenian legislation, we have become accustomed to the fact that the legal provisions do not drink water, that government measures against the epidemic are interdisciplinary, often irrational, so that they do not pursue the objectives which they themselves declare. However, we have also become accustomed to the extreme degree of incompetence, which is difficult to identify with any intentional intent after the abuse of power, but has occurred to the government in more than one situation. Payment of solidarity allowances for work in the Covid-19 epidemic is one such area, such as in the field of firefighters. Some firefighters have received the supplements; others have not received them again; they are doing the same work for the same payment under the same working conditions. The difference between firefighters who have received the supplement and who have not received it is that one of them is employed in professional fire brigades, while the other are employed as professionals in voluntary fire brigades. And, of course, once it came to plan, the government hastened to resolve the situation and to show itself in a better light than its public activity has shown and has failed in doing so. Therefore, it is not surprising that the legal action that we are considering today, in which we are also participating in Levica, which equates recipients of additives between professional firefighters wherever they are employed. That this action was certainly on the spot, that it was not a pianist's turn or any conjecture with the government's last attempt to amend the Fire Act, that the Fire Act itself witnessed the best. In this law, namely, the Government Fire Act, which we have dissected at the previous point, we also follow the provisions governing the issue of recipients of additions between professional firefighters. But if we were to expect the position of professional firefighters no matter where they are employed in the Firearms Act, we'd be evenly mistaken. The additions, as defined in the Fires Act, to professional firefighters employed in the core voluntary associations, are only optional, so if a firefighter company has the money to pay for these fire-fighting supplements if they do not have them, they will not pay it. And we're back exactly where we started in discrimination. Once within one professional group, certain firefighters receive additions, others do not. It is only this time that it is very difficult for the government to quietly or slightly less quietly refer to its own incompetence, since it is very obvious that this type of discrimination has been deliberately recorded and that the gap in the Fires Act has been deliberately recorded. She also deliberately opposed the warnings of the firefighters' union and another shareholder, who says that all firefighters must earn equal treatment, equal labour rights and equal allowances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u83	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the eligibility of professional firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units to supplement work in a risky situation during the epidemic is very similar to the proposal tabled by one opposition party and rejected by this esteemed assembly last November. Their purpose was merely self-promotion. I'll repeat: self-promotion. Despite the fact that the supplement to work in risky situations can already be paid on the basis of existing legislation, they want to create confusion and seemingly inequality of non-existent firefighters with their proposal. We have not forgotten the heart of firefighters and their unselfish commitment to the Slovenian people in the New Slovenia and the coalition in very difficult times. With financial assistance of between €2000 and €5,500, we have helped all voluntary firefighting companies, we have introduced a single insurance policy for all firefighters covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, in the Income Act, we propose to raise the general income allowance for each operational firefighter to € 1500. We Christian Democrats believe and work for the community of all firefighters, so we strongly oppose the discourse of individuals on the Defence Committee in addressing the proposed law. Although the purpose of the proposal is to hear the fine award of firefighters, this is in the proposed manner totally impractical and contrary to the legal order, as the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out the second time. We know without a doubt all Members and Members of Parliament that the proposer knows well that the municipalities can pay an allowance for work in risky situations under the applicable legislation, and most or all municipalities with a fire-fighting professional core have done so. You are still wondering who is creating confusion in our country, it is clear that the applicant does not really care about firefighters and properly regulate their situation, which is already regulated, but much more just for his own promotion. In public, the whole nonsense of the proposal was excellent and strongly summarised by the mayor, who confirmed the payment of the allowance for work in risky situations in her municipality, asking why the law, if the current regulations already allow these supplements, would that mean that some firefighters, such as ours, would then receive double payments. Christian Democrats are well aware that firefighters are indispensable; their proper status and equipment must be taken care of at all times, which we have been working on since this government's appearance. In New Slovenia we believe in actions and care for the firefighters community, so we have already proposed and adopted a series of laws that unselfishly address the problems of firefighters, as we promise, we do. I am therefore pleased that today we will also vote on the Firearms Act, which brings the necessary changes. The current law was adopted in 1993 and then only a few minor amendments were adopted. I am pleased that reason has prevailed on the parental committee, together both the coalition and some opposition Members have rejected a proposal that does not bring solutions, but introduces only confusion and unrest, and I will repeat it, which does not bring solutions, but introduces only confusion and unrest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u85	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law establishes a legal basis for providing the means to pay the allowance for work in risky conditions for firefighters and employees employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units and fire brigades and have been overlooked in past legislation. The intervention law to limit and mitigate the effects of the covid-19 pandemic has created imbalances within the wider professional group, because they did not provide for the payment of allowances for work in a risky situation for professional firefighters employed in professional sails in voluntary firefighting units and fire extinguishers, thus placing them in an unequal position compared to other professional firefighters. The government initially objected to this, and then in the so-called PKP10 it has actually realised what is proposed by the opposition in this law to recognise and pay the supplement to work in risky situations to professional firefighters in the professional cores of voluntary firefighting units. They are paid for 2020 and 2021 at 65% of the hourly base salary. We proposed a bill to remedy the situation of professional firefighters who performed public service in voluntary firefighting companies during the epidemic. They are not subject to a collective contract for the public sector under which professional firefighters received an allowance for work in risky situations during the epidemic. There are six such societies in Slovenia. The financial implications of the law were estimated at around half a million euros. If the law were adopted this category of firefighters would no longer depend on any government intervention law, because at least with regard to the allowance for work in dangerous situations, they would be equivalent to those subject to the collective agreement. In the SAB Group, we supported the proposal for a law on the parent's working body. We believe that all those in the first battle line during the Covid-19 epidemic should have received an allowance such as doctors, nurses, police officers, soldiers and firefighters in the fire brigades.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Mikhael Prevc. At its 66th urgent meeting on 3 March 2022, the draft law addressed the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. Since, after the discussion, the committee of articles of the draft law did not adopt the second consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the working body was completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respected and respected! Stifling interference with the whole sphere of social life is a constant from the moment this government coalition takes power and will apparently continue until the elections to meet them are no longer far off. It was only a matter of time before the target would also be the area of local self-government. To attribute this idea to the NSI this time that it is now imperative that the status of the municipal congregation be granted to Škofja Loki. Not with arguments based on legal criteria, but simply because the moment is right. Although we already have a number of local municipalities that do not meet the legal criteria, we already have something because legislation requires the fulfilment of certain totally non-life conditions, such as for example, that only the city population should count at least 20,000 people to help municipalities with at least 15,000 jobs, these are the conditions for a substantial larger country with significantly larger cities than we overpower them in Slovenia. What will be in your eyes when you propose the granting of the status of the municipality of Škofja Loke is that no strategy is pursued by the applicants, no reflection on what we want to achieve with this, but simply because they have decided to do so. They did not work so hard to attach a decision to the congregation. Such a time was running out, and the proponents themselves admit that they were encouraged by a recent example of the granting of the status of the city congregation to Krsek. It is true that Krško does not meet all the legal criteria, however, the fact that Posavia is potentially able to design them in the future whenever we can and Krška can still be the economic, cultural and administrative centre of the region or perhaps the future province. He's already got a mountain center like this. Kranj is a municipality in Škofja Loki in the neighbouring municipality. According to this logic, both municipalities are economic, cultural and administrative centres of Goranjska, and this somehow does not go together and what do they say to Domžale, Idrija, Jesenice, Kamnik, Piran, Radovljica, Ravne in Koroškem. The municipalities, which in the past have not only expressed interest, have already been in the process of obtaining the status of the municipalities. In the area of local self-government, we just have to intervene thoughtfully, see what we are trying to achieve. In the LMŠ, we do not object to the possibility that some congregation may be granted the status of the city congregation in the future. For the interests of the congregations exist, usually through a consensus of municipal policy. In Zagorje ob Savi, for example, the municipal council recently expressed such interest in a very short period of time twice. However, we will initiate a procedure in the LMŠ immediately after the elections to adjust the legislation accordingly. It is clear that the criteria for granting the status of the municipal municipality to a new definition will have to be set in motion, while also initiating the process of establishing the provinces. Not in the way that the slaughterhouse ended up in this term before he even came to the National Assembly. Again it has been shown that drawing maps without pre-defined any of the landscapes at all, brings nothing but irritation of people and a netting of conflicts. When we define the clear role of the provinces, it will be easier to decide on the new municipalities if the need for them appears. This will be the task of the future mandate, taking into account the strategic interests and common sense in conjunction with the desire of people in individual areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u89	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! An intervention in the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas, when the status of the municipality of Krško changed in the Municipality of Krško, resulted in a reptiles of similar desires. After the municipality of Krško, which with our support gained the status of the municipal municipality, a bill was introduced in the legislative procedure under which the State Assembly would grant the status of the municipal municipality to the municipality Brežice and Škofja Lok. Both proposals have not already been supported by the Home Working Committee, so I can only repeat some of the facts in the field of local self-government in Slovenia. During the 30th years of Slovenia alone, a number of changes have been made, and this has also been reflected at local level. In 1994, 147 congregations were established, and once, I will say, the spirit escaped from the bottle, this number rose to 212. According to statistics, more than half of the municipalities have 5,000 or less inhabitants, which means that there are only six Slovene inhabitants. During these years, many things have happened in the economic field. After the decline of the driving industries, once strong economic and industrial centres remained impoverished. As a result, the number of people in these areas has decreased. On the other hand, local environments have been strengthened due to the proximity of larger cities, Ljubljana and similar, where the number of jobs has not been so reduced or because of the proximity of the roads, for example, the proximity of the highway has recovered faster. Centres with jobs have once approached an acceptable and finally comfortable travel time, but even if roads to larger places such as Ljubljana have not been updated, many people have not actually remained, they have no choice but to find a job where it is, so in larger centres. So it was in Zasavje where I know this environment where I spent my youth and so it is in Kočev because I am now. The State’s efforts to bring the congregation’s financial awards into line have not exactly worked out, so it will be necessary in the near future to take such legislative steps in the field of local self-government, which will define more clearly the responsibilities and funding of both municipalities and, of course, of the countries, as well as the conditions for the establishment of municipalities and the conditions that municipalities must meet for the award of municipal status. It is necessary to prepare the necessary or new and transparent and modern Law on Local Self-Government. This is somehow related to the warnings of the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly and not least to the provision of Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which states that the law may grant the municipality the status of the municipal municipality if there is a city in its territory with at least 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs and an economic, cultural and administrative centre of the wider area. In the area of local self-government, we are stuck at the level of the municipalities, despite the fact that the National Assembly, with a desire to establish a second level of local self-government in 2006, has amended and supplemented Articles 140 and 143 of the Constitution. And the very fact that we have not been successful in the area of regionalisation so far has encouraged proposals to grant some municipalities the status of municipal municipalities. We have many diverse communities with the same tasks, and we do not get to the provinces because this is where both numbers and names end up in the geographical definition. The area of local self-government is therefore an area that we will have to deal with in the coming years. The development of local self-government and the provision of suitable living and working conditions is also directly reflected in the state's development rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u91	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. At the time of the previous amendment to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the Designation of Their Areas, which would grant the status of the Municipality of Krško in Levika, we have warned that the adoption of such a novel will trigger a wave of new proposals for the municipalities and so is it. With all these suggestions, the status of the city’s congregation is totally degraded, since then it would be best for all of us to assign the status of the city’s congregation in order for peace to be finally. In fact, by disregarding the legal conditions, however, the National Assembly thus gave a clear signal that each congregation could be a city congregation. And that's not right. With the proposed amendments to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities, we also have a problem in Levica for another or simpler reason, since the municipality of Škofja Loka, for example, the municipalities of Brežica and Krško already concerned, do not meet the legal conditions laid down in Article 16 of the Law on Local Self-Government to achieve the status of municipalities. None of these municipalities reach a minimum population of 20 000. Not even legally prescribed jobs, that is, 15,000. Similar proposals have in fact already appeared here in the National Assembly in the past, and unfortunately always and always just before the elections, which is again unacceptable. In Levica, we know that the status of the city’s congregation is not granted because of its regional prestige, but rather because of its urban characteristics, it is urban settlements that need a different arrangement, different powers than other congregations. It is therefore necessary to lay down in law the tasks of State competence relating to urban development, the municipal community and, in fact, the municipal community also face specific problems such as urban transport, poor air quality, high energy consumption, increased space interventions and so on. The administrative, cost, investment and development burdens of urban municipalities are increasing to address these problems. So everything really calls for a change of law. So, after a change and an amendment or a new law on local self-government. As we say to these handball solutions, which have been just after the current tape in the National Assembly of course in Levica, we oppose because we want closer and more thorough systemic solutions, and we will also be in advance of such handball solutions when it comes to reception or when it comes to the establishment of city halls after defolt, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. In New Slovenia we support the development of local self-government and efforts with coherent regional development of all regions of Slovenia. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we are committed to the right of local communities to regulate, manage and operate all matters of public life and work of the inhabitants in their territory independently, and not to interfere with the rights and obligations of other local communities. The management system must be as close to people as possible and must enable successful planning and coordination of different interests. Also in Nova Slovenije, we always listen with great attention to the proposals that come from local communities, whether it is the establishment of new municipalities or the granting or acquisition of the status of the municipality. Today we have before us the proposal for granting the status of the municipality of Škofja Loka, proposed by our colleague Mikhael Prevc, but the procedure has already ended on the working body, which we regret in Novi Slovenija. According to the proposaler, Škofja Loka is one of Slovenia's oldest cities, a city with more than a thousand years of history, through which it has emerged as an actual administrative, social, economic and cultural centre, a natural and social geographically rounded area of the wider Škophelo region. As early as 1274, Škofja Loka gained her city rights, becoming a commercial and crafts centre and an important transportation intersection or hub. Since then, construction activities have developed heavily, so today Škofja Loka, with its city functions, supports the regions or wider area of the Poljanska and Selska Valley, Škofjelovsko and Polhograjska hills and Soriška fields. In the whole country, it would be very difficult to find an area that is geographically so rounded and functionally connected to a single area, so the Municipality of Škofja Loka has been working for a long time to gain the status of the city municipality, which would actually formalize its position, role and function. Škofja Loka is already an extremely demographically vital, strong and dynamic, entrepreneurial-economically pervasive region, which for about 50,000 people in the region serves as a regional centre, and is an economic centre with exceptional development potential. [[Incomprehensible]] In the Municipality of Škofja Loka there are several public institutions that provide educational, social and health activities for the multi-district area. The city was the administrative centre of the wider Škopheloška region, which for almost thousands of years included the entire areas of the current four municipalities, called Škofje Loke, Municipality of Gorenje Vas – Poljane, Železniki, Žiri and a small part of the neighbouring municipalities Cerkno, Idrija and Municipality of Kranj. In the area they have their headquarters in the higher regional level of the State Administration, which provides services to the general population of several municipalities. By its role and meaning, Škofja Loka is already the central settlement of the regional level, the centre of regional importance. It serves the public with public functions and service activities at regional level. In addition to covering the general nutritional needs of the population in the educational, social, cultural, economic view, the population is also connected from regional, local, urban centres. By its very nature, Škofja Lok already represents the city municipality, which supports the city’s functions, the previously mentioned 50,000 people. The acquisition of the status of the municipal congregation would formalize the exercise of this role and facilitate the performance of its mandated tasks in all respects. Members of New Slovenia estimate that the Municipality of Škofja Loka of all three proposals discussed in this mandate meets the most condition for obtaining the status of the municipality. Unfortunately, the Committee proposal did not receive sufficient support. Among the key arguments for supporting the law by New Slovenia is the realization of decentralisation as one of the fundamental principles of local self-government. However, in this place I can agree with some predecessors that the Law on Local Self-Government is probably in certain parts, including in the work on how to grant the status of the municipal congregation to municipalities, non-life, and needs to be amended. On the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, Members of New Slovenia supported the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of Ambassador of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon. Respectable. Local self-government is of great importance to people because, in relation to the country, it allows them an important degree of independence. Decision-making at the level of the municipality is closer to people than decision-making at the state level because it is matters that are more directly concerned, which are more familiar and in resolution, which are more easily integrated, so it is all the more important that we have a strong local self-government in Slovenia in the service and co-decision of citizens. The SAB party recognises that the quality of life of citizens and citizens is crucial to the quality and efficiency of local self-government. We have repeatedly stressed their commitment to reducing the number of municipalities in a way that gives them more responsibilities and responsibilities when combined. The SAB Party is a advocate for regional development, which also generates the development and growth of Slovenian cities. In this mandate, a law was adopted in the National Assembly, by which the status of the municipality was acquired by the Municipality of Krško. At the same time, in the SAB, we advocated that the status of the municipality should also be granted to the Municipality of Jesenice, because in it we recognized the potential displayed in its development after all, Gorenjska is in fact the only region in which only one municipality has this status. In the face of growing pre-election excitement, it is not surprising that the proposals for the establishment of city halls are raining. We cannot shake the feeling that it is merely an attempt to distribute pre-election candy in order to obtain political points regardless of the curries. As also mentioned in the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, municipalities have to provide a disproportionately larger range of services with less resources, so the question arises whether municipalities such as Škofja Loka are able to provide such a scale. Any such proposal should be carefully considered, or the congregation seeking to gain the status of the city’s congregation does indeed meet the legal conditions laid down. Strong local self-government is not measured solely by the number of municipalities in the country. There are a number of important factors in this place, so we are in the SAB and will also be in the future in order to encourage the congregations to unite and unite, and thus, of course, with more people and more activities, we will gain more responsibilities and responsibilities. This is the only way in which municipalities will be able to provide a good and quality service for people through whose people will recognize that the municipality is actually a city municipality, because of their needs and because of the complexity of the city's functions, but not because of the competition for the post office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u96	Thank you very much. As last of all, Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u97	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Madam Members and Members of Parliament. The Crown Law on Local Self-Government should regulate both types of local communities and lay down the basic conditions for their establishment. Sometimes the issue of the jurisdiction of the city’s congregations cannot be separated from the general problem of the jurisdiction of the congregations. The definition of specific tasks relating to urban development is a matter of sectoral laws. Recent experience in the Slovenian Self-Government has shown that problems in addressing the criteria for defining cities and municipalities are such that they need to be resolved by a specific Law on Municipal Municipalities. The City Assembly shall carry out by law certain tasks under national jurisdiction relating to the development of cities. He does them as his original but not as a delegated state. However, the city municipality may also obtain from the State a separate task by prior agreement on such tasks and by agreement on the means to manage them. This means that the city municipality has the same category of tasks as other municipalities only that it has more in all categories of tasks both original and transferred and in this it has all the specificities of its special status as the city municipality. Within the framework of the tasks relevant to urban development, the municipality shall in particular regulate public suburban transport, carry out tasks in the field of intervention in the area of premises and the construction of buildings in its territory. It performs tasks in the field of geodesic service, provides a public network of high schools, secondary schools, vocational and higher education in its area and provides public health services at secondary level in its area. The final definition of tasks related to urban development must be created as a result of careful analysis in specific areas, including, in addition to the legal profession, a good knowledge of the fields of expertise, such as urbanism, public infrastructure, public security and so on. From November of last year to today, that is, within four, five months we have already considered six proposals for the award of the status of the municipal municipality, and this time, too, the basic conditions for granting this status have not been met in the case of the municipality of Škofja Loka. The Law on Local Self-Government provides that the municipality may be granted the status of the municipality by law if there is a city in its territory with at least 20,000 inhabitants and 15,000 jobs, and it is the economic, cultural and administrative centre of the wider area. All these conditions must be met cumulatively and the law does not allow derogations. These conditions are binding on the National Assembly as a legislative body, irrespective of their past, sometimes reckless decisions. So, regardless of the fact that five of the existing 12 municipalities do not meet the legal conditions for the status of the city congregation. In a specific case, the data of the statistical office from the previous year for Škofja Loko are as follows: there are 11 000 706 people living in the city, the whole municipality, not the city, has 10 000 248 jobs. We can find that Škofja Lok does not meet the legal conditions for granting city hall status. Local self-government is an unspeakably important state-owned sub-system with pointless proposals for the granting of the status of the municipal municipality, and we express the inability to manage this sub-system with reasonable and deliberate decisions. The Slovenian state is more an improvisation country than an invention. And there is no political responsibility in this. Although it is mostly about incompetence, indifference, negligence and ignorance, it shows that it is the biggest problem because they have the advantage of private political error over sound public definitions. However, this time a rational assessment of the facts was taken over at the meeting of the home working body of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Government, and the proposal was therefore rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u99	Yes, Madam Vice-President, is there only one procedural proposal for today's debate to be held at three o'clock if possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u100	Look, we're gonna follow the script forward, so no problem. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 98th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 14 and 40 minutes or more after a human 20 minutes to three. (The sitting was suspended at 2.05 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 2.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u101	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Please calm down! The National Assembly will vote on agenda items 2, 3, 6, 7 and 1. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law to regulate the situation of students in the context of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11. 3. 2022, published on the e-club. Mr Reich's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u102	Mr President, I request a half-hour suspension of the meeting for consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u103	Do you need to be consulted in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u104	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u105	Okay. Nothing. I'll hang up for half an hour. We'll continue at 3:15. (The sitting was suspended at 14.41.) (The sitting resumed at 15.15.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u106	We continue with the adjourned session and move on to the vote. We decide on the amendment of the Groups of Non-Aligned Members, SD and SAB to Article 5. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 13 in particular. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 40. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 14 in particular. In doing so, I read the note that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same motion for article 20. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 20 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 17 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 18 in particular. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 20 in particular. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 43. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 21 in particular. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 41. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 32 of the Groups of Non-Aligned Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, becomes irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 32(2). We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 29. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Groups of Non-Aligned Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB and on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 36 in particular. Since the amendments are substantively the same, we will vote on them together. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 84 votes against 4. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The National Assembly, yeah, we're done with this decision on the amendments. [[…]] I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. The wording of the draft law for third reading will be prepared by the services of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Administration in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. (The vote was 46.)(against 19.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act in the context of a regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 11 March, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 8a. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. (The vote was 46.)(against 1.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 10 in particular. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 12 in particular. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 46 voted against. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 13 in particular. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 14 in particular. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 15 in particular. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 19 in particular. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 20 in particular. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 21 in particular. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 22. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 23. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 28. We're voting. The 83 Members and Members present voted 46 against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 30. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 33. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 35. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 36. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 37. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide to amend the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 42. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 43 We're voting. 82 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 48 in particular. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 55. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 46 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and specifically Article 58. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and Levica groups to Article 60(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SNS Group to this Article, under number 2, shall become irrelevant. An explanation of vote, Mr. Nick Prebil, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The 60th Article, which we are applying to LMŠ with Levica, essentially adds two new articles: this is 150.e and 150.f. In our opinion, they are both controversial. The first regulates the extension of mining rights to concessionaires. It should be noted here that the mining law already in force provides for an extension of the rights and concessions already in force, but, subject to the conditions to be met by all stakeholders in order to extend the case. Secondly, the Law-Legal Service has pointed out in a number of pages the many contradictions of these provisions and, in this view, it is also disputed in terms of constitutional legal admissibility. Secondly, by granting concessions and by interfering with the constitutionally protected right to private property. And the latter, you know, can only be limited and only if intervention is envisaged for the public benefit. And the most important thing is that the legislative and legal service also very clearly identifies and also many entities that have sent us letters, including the municipalities, that the proposed solution violates the principle of equality before the law. This is one of the most important rights. The proposed content introduces a distinction between those potential owners or holders of mining rights or those already in possession. And, uh, the last thing. New articles also add new exceptions to the acquisition of mining rights in protected areas. And, of course, we are very opposed here because it is now being introduced that a concessional act in the mining field can be adopted without a nature-protection opinion. We oppose this, so this amendment, this article, is completely deleted and I will support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Explanation of vote, Mrs Natasa Sukič, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u109	On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Yeah, like they said. In this forest of amendments, of course, there is always some kind of plant. And despite the fact that it is a law that we are happy to see in Levica, because it is abolishing, it prohibits cracking, but of course it is problematic so 150.e., and the fight 150.f., which was added to the law with the amendment of the coalition, is said to be framed to properly express ourselves, and means that the legitimate expectation of private capital is given before the nature of the reservations. According to the local authorities, concessions may be granted on a negative nature-protection basis. And since the problem of this, of course, the coalition is obviously slightly aware of it, it has introduced a term that stated that exploitation must be carried out, I quote: “to the greatest extent possible”. I mean, the highest possible. And what is the greatest possible measure now? We know how relative the concept is that, from case to case, who decides what that measure is. More to the contrary, mining should not be carried out, but they should nevertheless try to take into account, to the greatest extent possible, the legitimate expectations of capital, if we are already at the best possible level, but of course it is not that easy. Simply in law you cannot introduce such loose definitions, the law must be clear, strict and no fencing should be allowed or some post-festum judgement, so this article is absolutely controversial from the beginning to the end and of course has been framed in a well-known manner because it is a pity that such a good law is destroyed with such an instigator and that, of course, it must be crossed out, so in Levican we will vote for our amendment to delete this dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 60, paragraph 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 51. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors for a new 62.a. Because the amendments are substantively the same we will decide on them together. I'm sorry. Ms Natasa Sukić on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u111	Yes, thank you very much. Let me just make it clear what we're doing with this amendment. We are, of course, very pleased that we have finally come to the fact that freaking will be prohibited, that amendments have therefore been adopted both by the left and by the coalition in this regard. However, this needs to be regulated now with the previous period, so we have tabled an amendment to the new 62.a Article, by which this transitional period should be truly regulated, and this is also an important explanation of the amendment, which, by adopting it, would become part of the law, it is therefore important that it be explained in the law itself, that the prohibition of freaking is in the clear public interest and that a proportionality test has also been carried out, which would therefore, if we now adopt it, become part of this law. Why is that important? This is important if he decides and actually sues the Republic of Slovenia, because he was the holder of the concession and because Frequenting will now be banned, so that this is well attached to the law, that it is clearly known that the Republic of Slovenia protects its public interest. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 67 in particular. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, and I am thus concluding a second reading of the bill. The Council of State will hold its third reading of the draft law at its next meeting on the basis of Article 137, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, and I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: “The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government.” We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. (For the vote was 78.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Firearms in the framework of the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. (The vote was 54.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act under the ordinary procedure. At its 28th meeting, on 15 December 2021, the National Assembly decided to postpone the decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income to one of the following meetings. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2021, which was published no e-clubs. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 51. (For the vote was 8.)(against 51.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 4. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 46. (The vote was 20.)(against 46.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 52. (The vote was 20.)(against 52.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. I therefore conclude the second reading of the draft law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. First of all, I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice on behalf of the groups of Members. If not, I give the floor to explain myself to Mr. Pollnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u113	Thank you. I'll vote against it. The reduction in income from income in the period 2022 to 2025 amounts to 800 million of budget revenue. The revenue structure of municipal budgets shall consist of two thirds of the current revenue. Its downgrading would mean sub-funding the future obligations of the municipalities. The financial adjustment as a concept that is expected to compensate in the future for the reduction in revenue from the financing of municipalities is completely flawed. The essence of financial compensation is that it enables only survival and does not promote any development. At the end of September last year, the Act on the provision of funds for investments in Slovenian health care was adopted. Between 2022 and 2025, 878 million euro is needed. The budgets for this year and next year are 289 million, the difference to be made is 580 million. It is similar with the Long-Term Care Act. The estimate of all necessary funds for the period 2022 to 2025 is 1 billion and 881 million and the estimate of the transfer of existing funds is 858 million. The difference is therefore billions and 23 million. The need for budgetary expenditure under these two laws alone amounts to €1 billion and €600 million, which is neither specified nor foreseen. [[sign for the end of the debate]] no financial resources yet. We are facing this fiscal challenge in a way that reduces the revenue of the state budget by 800 million, with completely blurred substitution effects. This needs to be made clear, because everything else is a senseless opening of space for "self-advertising" manipulations of mammals. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'll vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In your own name, Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u115	Yes, thank you very much. Well, there's not much more to what Robert said to me. Now, first of all, this marriage is unfair. While the higher caste will receive free electric cars with no rating on companies and “taxed” rewards and practically halved property tax, you will throw a pair of nuts at those on minimum wages, average wages and so on, to tell them that we give money for everything. First of all, it is not for everything and second of all, but, as Robert Polnar said, you are cutting the second largest tax source in the country, and you are reducing the income by as much as 800 million euros a year, while you are promising to provide a billion for health and 600 million for long-term care, so on. See, laws such as this can be adopted at the beginning of the mandate when the Government also assumes its responsibility to live with such a budget. To accept this at the end of your term of office means only two, firstly, this is usually pre-election vote buying and secondly, this is completely irresponsible to the state, to the future government and blind to what is happening around us. You've spent 10 billion more than Slovenia has created, but in recent years, you can't see that the European Central Bank is closing down the tentacles. [[sign for the end of the debate]] and that this period will end. While the war is raging, and so on, you're cutting down our state cash register. I'm telling us because you're tearing it down for all of us and giving us nothing, but you're taking away the future for those who are creating this country. That is why, of course, I will vote against it as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u116	Thank you very much. In your own name, Mrs. Monica Gregorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this new Law on Income because, through tax reliefs or incentives in the first place, it brings higher net income to people because it stimulates the economy towards greater productivity, higher activities, because it increases the ability of the economy to retain and also new attract high-skilled young people who need to become a driver of economic progress and growth, especially because it also introduces tax exemptions for some of the most vulnerable social groups, especially family pensions, will no longer be taxed, the exemption for income from school funds is introduced, as well as senior relief. Of course, I also understand the concern about public financial sustainability, but the gradual introduction of these income reliefs will make the matter easier. Moreover, due to favourable economic climate and growth, reduced unemployment, it is estimated that measures will have a less negative impact on public finances than initial estimates. Voters and voters will be able to remember who did not support a good solution for people, who, with a fig in their pocket with the support of trade unions, seek higher wages, who cares more than for the well-being of people, for the charging of state and municipal budgets, and who has made a mockery of the proposal [[sign for the end of the debate]] for the consultative referendum, he finally squeezed his tail between his legs because he was afraid of political defeat at the time of the elections. Of course I'll support this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The next vote will explain Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u119	Yes, I come from Maribor Municipality, where we are third-rate citizens and citizens, at least among the mandatory tasks we have accepted in the National Assembly and the budget, regardless of who the mayor or mayor will be, is now serving 24 million. My friend, Polnar, explained. With everything that's been said, tell me where we're going to find the billion that we're fusing from the integrated budget to the pension fund, you smart-ass? I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Next one's a mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u121	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, the rest present. I'll vote against it myself. At this point, public health stores already have a quarter billion holes, and people can't even reach services when they're sick. The only chance they'll come is to fund more favors. However, we can only finance from the state budget or from private pockets. Therefore, basically any additional hole in the national budget means health care where it will be even less accessible when the patient needs health care. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Mrs Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Take a look at how good it is for people when you give fatty otters to the richest and actually babies to the poor and they are full of mouths, of course you do not tell these people why the basket of basic health services will shrink. Of course, it will shrink because the decline of €800 million will mean something to this country and it will have to be squeezed somewhere. Of course, you don't tell people that they're going to spend a lot more euros a month looking for a doctor, of course you're not going to say that. Like you won't tell me why your promise of long-term care won't actually leave anything. What you're doing, I mean, really, you're acting like really golden-mouthed people who are full of some promises that are completely unrealistic and harmful to this country. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. I will vote strongly against this because this proposal to amend the Income Act only adds further to those who already have and at the expense of this increase in delineation. But it is true, as a right-wing right, that those on a minimum wage will also gain a few euros a year in exchange for those who earn 3,000 euros and more. While you are not in exchange for providing a minus in the Treasury to increase the taxation of capital, real estate, which would be absolutely necessary. And after all, the taxation of the church. It is only about wanting to further spread society. But you boast a lot about how you're going to invest in public health, in public education, and of course you're not doing any of that, on the contrary. You destroy the entire public system in the Republic of Slovenia and yes, you will give this law to those who already have it. For rich people more, for poor people, what's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The irresponsible public financial policy implemented by this government will and will already leave large gaps and major problems. If it is possible that, some 14 days ago, it is still possible that at 7% of economic growth, in some long-term period, we could cover the failure or hole that you are going to roll today, in a situation like today, when we do not actually know what will happen tomorrow, when no one knows how the measures they are taking as Europe or with the rest of Europe against Russia will affect the European and the Slovenian economy. Out of 3 billion, you'll take almost a third, almost a third. And yes, it's going to be a headache, of course it's going to hurt the next government. Something similar happened in 2008. First, in 2008, 7% of economic growth, in 2009 7% of economic activity fell and the budget was filled with a hole that we covered over the years. And that is not the way public financial policies in our country should be guided or managed. And yes, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Mrs Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I will vote for the law. All of us have our mouths full so that we need to relieve our wages taxly, but when we have the opportunity and opportunity to do so, we always find reasons why not. Even if the law is optimal, starting to relieve wages, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-11-SDZ8-Izredna-98.ana.u130	Thank you very much. If there is no more explanation for the vote, we shall vote. There are 86 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 40. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 98th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Have a nice day.
