ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Mark Koprivc from 3 p.m. on, Franz Jurša, mag. Bojana Muršič, Jani Prednik, Janja Servant from 3.30 p.m., mag. Carmen Furman, Nada Brinovšek, Lidija Ivanuša, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Nick Prebil, Rudy Medved, Franc Rosec, Aljaž Kovacic, Iva Dimic from 12th, Alexander Reberšek, mag. Dejan Židan from 2 p.m. on, Predrag Bakovic from 2 p.m. on, mag. Meira Hot, Matjaž Germany from 12:00 to 14:00, mag. Mark Koprivc from 15th, Dr. Franc Trček, Eva Irgle, Jure Ferrjan and Jerca Korče. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE COMPLETIONAL COVENANT LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Maja Hostnik Kališek, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly is today discussing a proposal for a law amending the Law on casual coins, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure to the National Assembly. The main purpose of the proposed amendment of the Law on spot coins is to increase the number of events where collector coins can be issued in a given year. In accordance with the Act on occasional coins, the Republic of Slovenia issues optional coins on political, historical, scientific, cultural, sports, humanitarian and other events of general importance to the Republic of Slovenia or of wider international significance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall determine the events in which the optional coins are issued. The commemorative coins shall be divided into commemorative and collector coins. Commemorative coins are equivalent to two euro exchange coins in terms of physical and chemical characteristics. The collector coins are made of gold, silver and metal determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The current Law on Sample Coins now provides that collector coins may be issued at a maximum of two events per year. Many important events have led to the finding that the current regime is too restrictive, since in some years it makes it impossible to issue collector coins at all the key events that would deserve it. The bill therefore proposes an amendment that will allow collection coins to be issued in a given year at several events. On the basis of the amendment adopted by the Committee on Finance, collector coins will be issued annually at a maximum of ten events. This will enable greater flexibility in the number of events where collector coins can be issued. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government proposes to support the proposed text of the Law amending the Law on Occasional Coins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 45th meeting on 16 February this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending the Law on the Opportunities for Coins submitted by the Government to the Assembly. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to the draft law was tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, as referred to in Article 1. In the introduction, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the background, content and basic objective of the bill, which introduces greater flexibility in the number of events where collector coins are issued in a given year. It also expressed its support to the Government of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, which is further increasing the number of events where collector coins can be issued, from the initial proposed 5 to a maximum of 10 events. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out two matters. First, it laid down the deadline for the implementation of a bill derogating from the general 15-day deadline without justified reasons for shortening that period. Secondly, it highlighted the incomprehensibility of this time element, which, in conjunction with Article 2 of the current law, provides that the Government shall determine in advance the events at which the occasional coins are issued. The debate raised concerns about the sense of adopting the proposed law, which also entails financial consequences, and criticism of its proposed rapid enforcement and the call for reasons for it. In its reply to the debate, the State Secretary provided an explanation of the above-mentioned reasons, highlighting the Government's intention to issue optional coins in the coming year 2023. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party to Article 1 and adopted it. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted both articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Leon Merjasec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	President, thank you for your word. Hello, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on spot coins in Article 5, paragraph 3, provides that collector coins may be issued at a maximum of two events per year. Events in which coins are issued in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 2 of the Law shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the many important events in cultural, sports, humanitarian, historical, scientific, political and other areas, we believe that the increase in the number of publications of collector coins makes sense. A proposal for a law amending the Law on Sample Coins proposes an amendment that will allow collection coins to be issued in a given year at a maximum of ten events, thus allowing for greater flexibility in the number of coins issued, should it be assessed that more events are appropriate for the issue of collector coins in a given year. Therefore, it is possible to increase the maximum number of annual editions of collector coins from the existing 2 to a maximum of 10. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will determine how many opportunities or collector coins will actually be issued. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Sample Coins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Also at the last regular meeting of this mandate, we are considering a proposal for a law that has been substantially amended by the coalition and its allies through the process. The purpose and purpose of the law drafted by the Government was to enable Banka Slovenije to issue annually more than two series of optional coins, as far as this allowed her to have a marriage solution. The original proposal envisaged that this restriction would increase so that up to five series of coins could be issued annually. The solution was reasoned and, of course, no one was disputed. On the Committee, however, an amendment was tabled and adopted to further increase the annual limit on the number of coin series to ten. This would mean that Banka Slovenije could practically issue a new commemorative coin every month. The reasons why the current regime should be amended so radically, neither the amendment's proposer nor its supporters have explained, but the ruling coalition has favoured it for reasons not explained. Although the proposer has tabled an amendment for the meeting of the National Assembly to recast the proposed framework, unfortunately the amendment has been withdrawn and the legislative text cannot therefore be amended by the National Assembly, it can only decide on its adoption or rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, even at the last regular meeting of the mandate, it is obvious that we cannot avoid the government's handicrafts and its militia supporters who voluntarily change the content of the legislative proposals and introduce further confusion. We do not know what the interests of the proposer and the supporters of the adopted amendment are, but we do know that such a way of adopting rules is not appropriate. Therefore, we cannot support this bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of New Slovenia will be happy to support the law amending the Law on Occasional Coins. The opportunity coins in Slovenia are divided into commemorative coins and collector coins. Commemorative coins are, by dimension and chemical and physical characteristics, equivalent to 2 euro exchange coins, have a 2 euro joint side and a national side with a motive to mark an event of wider international importance or greater importance for Slovenia. In Slovenia they are issued at only one event per year. Commemorative coins are a means of payment in all euro area Member States. However, collector coins are issued after the current legislation for a maximum of two events per year, as we have estimated and estimated that they are insufficient. They are made of gold, silver or metal determined by the Republic of Slovenia. They differ from coins in circulation in color, diameter and weight. The nominal value is expressed in euro but differs from the nominal value of the exchange coins. Collector coins are a legal means of payment at their nominal value in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in other countries they are only numismatic. They are sold at nominal or higher value. We supported an amendment that actually allows collector coins to be issued in a given year at a maximum of ten events, no more than two, as is still the case in the current legislation. I had this privilege to see for myself how things worked. In 2017, at her invitation, I proposed to Banka Slovenije to issue the spot coins at the 100th anniversary of the merger of Premurski Slovenes with the native nation in 2019. This has actually come true, for which I am extremely grateful and happy. Finally, it is the Government that adopts the Regulation on the issue of optional coins. A gold coin, 500 pieces, a silver thousand 500 pieces, a two-metal coin, a professor, a thousand pieces and a two-metal coin, a simple technique, 50,000 pieces. Unfortunately, you can't buy them anymore because the supplies are being sent. They're very beautiful. Why is he actually going? Let me remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia placed August 17th among the national holidays. On the basis of the State holiday it was written, I quote: “This desire for unity we had to write down among the State holidays in order to remind future generations of how Slovenians were created, united and preserved. This also brings us together in common efforts to strengthen Slovenian culture and economy and for the greater well-being of all." The Republic of Slovenia therefore issued collector coins at the 100th anniversary of the accession of Prekmur or the merger of the Prekmur Slovenes with the native nation. The main motive is the intertwining of a quote from the National Alarm Wakeer and publicist Joseph Klekle, an elder from the local weekly Novina, published on 17 August 1919. This quote reads: “Children are lüble Slovenian mothers.” And the figure representation of the stork in the year from the right to the left is from the east to the west, which gives an additional symbolic base. As we say, this marriage is good and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	Your Honor! The current legislation decides to issue collector coins on political, historical, scientific, cultural, sports, humanitarian and other occasions of general importance to Slovenia or of wider international significance. In doing so, collector coins may be issued at a maximum of two such events per year. There is absolutely no doubt that Slovenians have more than two important events each year to mark their achievements, so in the SAB we do not oppose the issuance of coins that would mark five important events each year instead. However, we need to draw attention to some of the questions raised with regard to the adoption of this law, but we have not received any answers from the proposer. The first unusual phenomenon with regard to the adoption of the law is the statement by the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance that the government initially considered that the number of collector coins would increase to 10. It is not clear why it withdrew from this proposal if it subsequently supported the addition of the Slovenian national parties, after which 10 coins per year can be issued instead of five coins. In doing so, we cannot pass on the fact that each issue of the casual coin also costs something, and beyond the fact that the collector is the champion of the SNS Victory Jelinčič Tribal. Collectorship is described as very profitable, even more profitable, than investing in gold. The second unusual phenomenon related to the proposal of the law relates to the entry into force of the law. The Constitution provides in Article 154 that the rules shall enter into force within 15 days of publication. This must be followed by the legislator, but if he proposes a shorter time limit for the enforcement of the law, he must state in full and justify the reasons for shortening the time limit for the entry into force of the law in the legislative procedure. In a specific case, the Government did not comply with the Constitution, since, without any justification, it stated that the law would enter into force the following day. The answer to why the government is in such a hurry is that we have not received an answer on the parent’s working body, so we can only speculate about them. In view of the fact that the government has set important events in previous years either for commemorative events or for collector coins at the beginning of the year for the following year, one of the possible reasons is a government delay. However, we need to know that the immediate implementation of this law gives the current government the right to determine, by its own discretion, the important events in which coins will be issued in the following year. In view of its work so far, it is not twice to say that its ideology will prevail in this choice. And if we marked the 150th anniversary of the birth of the painter Matija Jama, the 300th anniversary of the Škopheloške pasion and the 30th anniversary of the statehood of the Republic of Slovenia, the leadership of the current government will not surprise us if the collection coins as an important political event in 2023, if I caricated, marked the 34th anniversary of the operation of the SDS party. Who among the members of the current government would object to such a decision?Oh, my God! In the SAB Group, we do not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The current law on casual coins, which was passed just under 15 years ago, provides that the optional coins are issued at different types of events which are of general importance to our country or of wider international significance. The events for which the optional coins are issued shall be determined by the Government no later than nine months before the date marked by their issue. Among the two types of casual coins are commemorative and collectory. The first, according to the dimension and other characteristics, is the same as the exchange rate coins for two euros, the nominal value of the commemorative coins is 2 euros and they are the legal means of payment in the euro area. However, collector coins are made of gold, silver or other metals and may be issued at a maximum of two events per year. Their appearance is different from the coins in circulation and the legal means of payment are only in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. For example, Banka Slovenije has placed in sales and circulation since 2 March this year the first annual coin. The sale includes commemorative coins at the 150th anniversary of the birth of architect Jožet Plečnik and collector coins at the 150th anniversary of the birth of painter Matija Jama. It is expected that this July, or the planned issue of a common commemorative coin by all the Member States of the Eurosystem, will take place on the theme of the 35th anniversary of Erasmus student exchange programme. In Slovenia, there are many political, historical, sports, cultural and other important events, and the biller has found that the current regime, which limits the issue of collector coins to only two events per year, is inadequate. The novel was initially too easy to increase the number of important events to be marked in such a specific way to 5. Following the adoption of the amendment on the parent committee, the Committee on Finance proposes an additional increase in the ceiling for the number of collected coins issued, after which it will be possible to issue up to 10 coins per year. The bill thus allows for greater flexibility in dealing with events in which collector coins are issued in a given year. The Desus Group makes sense to us. We look at the proposal well-intentionedly, not like some local conspiracy theorists. These local theorists even conspire on such benign matters as the issue of jubilee coins, looking for hair in the egg and hostile action. That doesn't make any sense. Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal for a law amending the Law on casual coins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The winner, Jelinčič Nobleni, will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! The law that we have before us makes sense, even though it fixes one thing only to increase the number of collector coins from two per year to 10 per year. I also speak as a numismatic and as a former forensic expert in numismatics, how this works in the Western world, as well as in the East. Collector coins can be an extremely large revenue for the state treasury and it is therefore reasonable to issue more, but not in extremely large quantities. The error was already made by Banka Slovenije once, when 3 Euros of dual-metal coins were first forged in one number during the presidency of the Council of Europe and in that case the price of 3 euro coins increased to EUR 46. Then they quickly went to additional forging without the difference mark and in the number of 300,000 pieces. In this case, it all fell to EUR 6 per coin. The foolish operation of the Bank of Slovenia has been shown here, as it also shows that Banka Slovenije has been issuing 3 euro two-metal coins since 2008 past the law. The Bank of Slovenia is working its way, past the law, and I think it will have to be asked for health, how and with what right it owns a legislative decision in Slovenia. The law corrects, as I have already said, one small segment well and correctly, but it will make sense to process this law long and hard, for I would say that it is completely confused and there are many things that are not known what can and cannot be done. The worst part is that Banka Slovenije does its own work, that she does not care what the law says, but only cares about her own decision. It is important that certain architects and designers present this on cashed paper 40 times 60 centimeters to make it look like this, different and so on, which is impossible for someone who wants to put a good idea into circulation. Perhaps someone would say that it is more important paper or shell or packaging than is important content. This is certainly the case with Banka Slovenije. If we look at Einstein writing his formulas on various papers that weren't exactly respectable, yet it was Einstein. And if we take Picasso to draw some of his drawings on a paper in a restaurant or in a restaurant, it turns out that we have been walking around in Slovenia for about 200, 300 years, because we have important packaging, it is important to have cashed paper. Of course, in this case only certain people who have, say, companies, architectural bureaus and the like, that they can give it, ideas disappear. I was on this committee for a while, they threw me out because of my principles, just as they threw a representative out of the National Museum of Slovenia, who did not agree to such strange things that happened and happen in the Bank of Slovenia. We will therefore at least welcome this change in the Slovenian National Party. In the next term, we will draw up a comprehensive law that will completely replace the current impossible situation in this area. Once again, we will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law amending the law on divination and hunting within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Anton Hare, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! In 2004, the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which was then listed in Article 68, was adopted. Currently we have twelve, because after the adoption of the law a public institution Brdo pri Kranju was also established. That's how we have 12 special-purpose hunting grounds right now. Ten hunting grounds with special purpose are in the management of the Slovenian Institute of Forests and in addition to the mentioned public institute Brdo we also know the Triglav National Park or hunting grounds with special purpose Triglav Bled. On the initiative of the Slovenian Institute for Forests, we were asked a long time ago to have three special-purpose fishing sites currently located at the location Kočevje, Sneznik, Medved and Yelen join together for rationalisation. This is also what we have proposed, and this is also proposed in the current novelty, that three of them create a significantly larger one specifically designed hunting ground. When we looked at the remaining hunting grounds for a particular purpose, including the hunting ground Triglav Bled, which is in the management of the public institute Triglav National Park, we saw that also the hunting grounds with a special purpose Prodi-Razor directly touched this hunting ground. That is why we have proposed at the Ministry that these two also unite into one. The lower, the southernmost part, we talk about about about 500 hectares, and we join the hunting family Lubinj. When we looked at the legislation, we found that in Article 7 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, in the third paragraph, it was stipulated that the LPN would establish a government on a proposal from the Minister. In Article 68, as I explained earlier, eleven special-purpose hunting grounds have not yet been established. Both at the Ministry and at the Government's Law Service, we were given indications that the two articles of the Law were somewhat contradictory, so it seemed reasonable for us to simply delete Article 68 and come to the National Assembly with this proposal. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has proposed and explained to us, because, under the law of that time, it has set up hunting grounds with a special purpose on the proposal of the Minister of Government, but it would make sense that the legislative body in Article 68 explains and also confirms which are those fisheries with a special purpose to be in force. Let me explain. You know that 60% of Slovenia's surface is covered by forests and the fisheries with special purpose cover 10% of these forest areas. Thus, in the Republic of Slovenia we also have very well taken care of these public tasks, public functions, monitoring of game, animals, and we also keep this further. That is why I find it difficult to agree with certain observations whether to stop the LPN or to try to eliminate them in any way. That is how I propose the adoption of the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	A nice greeting to all present, especially you, the chairman, and the representative of the government! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the amendment to the Wildlife and Fisheries Act at its 35th session. 2. 2022. In addition to the draft law, the members of the Committee also received a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which was further substantiated by its representative. She pointed out that the proposed amendment to the law on the deletion of a provision defining eleven hunting grounds with a special purpose, because this content was intended to be within the competence of the executive branch. It also pointed out that the legislative material in the process of adopting the applicable law did not show the objective pursued by the solutions exposed. However, there is no doubt that Articles 68 and 80 of the current law are an enforceable clause with a deadline. With the Act on Wildlife and Hunting, the legislator imposed on the executive branch the establishment of eleven hunting sites with a special purpose and set a deadline for that purpose. This means that the legislator did not give full consideration to the executive branch of the territory of special purpose to the establishment of hunting sites, but ordered the establishment of at least 11 special-purpose hunting sites by law. The proposed amendment changes this and leaves the establishment of hunting grounds with a special purpose to the full assessment of the executive branch of the Authority. More detailed substantive reasons why the establishment of hunting sites with special purpose will no longer be within the legislator's jurisdiction are not mentioned in the proposal for a law. If the content of the legislation is reserved to the legislator under the Constitution, the proposed solution would mean that the executive branch assumes the powers of the legislative branch of power. In view of the constitutional determination of the fundamental relations between the various branches of government, this would constitute a non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution. From the introduction of the bill to the hearing of the Committee, amendments were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and, in particular, Article 1 and a new article, which provides that this competence to determine fishing grounds with special purpose remains the responsibility of the legislator. The Vice-President of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. The President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, however, expressed the conviction that much greater changes were needed in the law in force than were proposed. The President of the Hunting Union of Slovenia also took part in the debate and assessed the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and, in particular, as appropriate. The Director of the Slovenian Institute for Forests, however, stressed that the Institute supports the amendment of this article in the way that the fishing for special purpose of Medved, Sneznik Kočevska Rijeka and Žitna Gora are merged into a single hunting ground with a special purpose of Kočevsko. He also proposed to include in the article the missing hunting ground with a special purpose Brdo pri Kranj. In the debate, some members of the Committee supported the amendment of the SDS's parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and, in particular, Article 1 and the new Article, since the merger of hunting grounds means the rationalisation of their operations. Some members of the Committee considered that the proposed legal solution would mention the fundamental changes in the current law and that it was not only a minor correction, so the subject should be a broader and in-depth debate, not just a draft law dealt with in the short term. Some members strongly opposed any pooling of hunting grounds and expressed their conviction that the fisheries should remain as they are. They also considered that the amendment was actually the basis for the privatisation of hunting grounds with special purpose and for the provision of partial interests to a narrow target group of people. The proposed change is based on purely private interests and high pressures to deplete hunting sites with a special purpose, particularly Prodi-Razor, which has been implemented since the law was enacted, and in particular has been expressed recently. Moreover, neither the explanation of the bill nor the explanation of the proposed amendments shows the objective pursued by the proposed solutions. Also from last year's presentation of the activities of the Institute for the Forests of Slovenia, it is not clear that the identification of hunting grounds with a special purpose from the management of the institution in their interest or that it wants to get rid of its hunting grounds. This is certainly a matter that the drafter of the amendment should explain in more detail. In the debate, the Committee also identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. The proposal by the Social Democrats' Group for an amendment to Article 1 has become irrelevant as a result of the adoption of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. In LMŠ soon after the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, we called a meeting, where we also invited Minister Jožet Podgorška to further explain the content of the proposed Law on Wildlife and Hunting and the circumstances which at the same time led to the decision that the amendment of the law should be adopted following a reduced procedure. We have been led primarily by poor experience in the past to an increased degree of caution. In particular, we keep our ears in LMŠ when there is a question of environmental and spatial interventions and the link to public interest. At LMŠ, we have already shown that we are very well aware of how reckless and uncritical interventions in nature can cause irreversible damage to nature and humans. We cannot escape the sense of disappointment that the mere impudence from the SDS coin can be called undemocratic in terms of the lack of minimum consent with the professional and other interested public, customeristic in terms of the obvious representation of unilateral interests and legally unacceptable in terms of the concentration of power on the executive branch. One way or another, they found their way to the Department of Agriculture. Such laws are often marked in short or urgent terms. That we still have a good point in the LMŠ, it was confirmed by the additions made by the coalition in the second reading of the working body, which are diametrically contrary to the interests, which at first we can imagine are also the result of the constructive proposals of the LMŠ Group. We do not even hope to think that the voting machine would work here, and today we would have before us the initial proposal for amendments to the law, which, without appropriate explanations, provided for the removal of the name of the hunting grounds with special purpose, to remove the jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power and not even to make an effort to regulate the legal position of hunting operators with a special purpose. Thus, we have before us the upgrade of the current regime, where in LMŠ we welcome, in addition to the fact that the legal guardian remains from mixing with the public interest of each government, the meaningful integration of LPN in Kočevska into a particular hunting ground. The basic public service model in the field of game and hunting is good compared to other countries that have felt the unpredictability of hunting rights arising from their own land. Nor should we forget a number of scientific research on wildlife, sustainable use of the environment and fisheries that are taking place in LPN and help our country's reputation in the world. Instead of controversial interventions, we should consider how to improve the existing model of operation of the LPN. Although the government and the minister could be exposed to harmful schemes that would certainly damage the forest habitat in the long term, we have received a proposal from the disputed proposal from a law that follows the proposals of the professional public in some part. In LMŠ, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Wildlife and Hunting.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Wildlife and Hunting has been given to Members and Members of Parliament at a table following a reduced procedure. At first glance, it is only a minor change and the procedure for adopting a law that has been passed may also be justified, but what if this marriage change is far more than small or harmless? In the introductory text, the applicants note that the provision of Article 68 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which taxibly lists eleven specific hunting grounds with a specific purpose, is clearly contrary to the provision of Article 7, paragraph 3, of the same law. According to the rulings, the law should be amended in order to eliminate the above-mentioned system-wide non-compliance between the provisions of Article 7 and the provisions of Article 68 of the Act already mentioned and to clarify the powers of the Government in the field of hunting for specific purposes. You know, this article has been in this marriage for a long time, and so far, it hasn't bothered anyone. Now it has happened that he has disturbed someone and that in fact it was only this reason that the law has been opened and that other changes have been prepared, which I will define below. The aim of the amendment of legal matter is to allow for the smooth implementation of the tasks of the public service for the sustainable management of wild game in LPN, which are legally defined. According to the authors of the law, this would be achieved by simply deleting Article 68. But what are we actually talking about? With the proposed deletion of the said article, the government or the Ministry would abolish fishing for special purpose, namely Triglav Bled, Kozorog Kamnik, Pohorje, Fazan Beltinci, Kompas Peskovci, Prodi-Razor, Jelen, Medved, Sneznik Kočevska river, Žitna Gora and Ljubljanski vrh, and transform them into a new one on the basis of the provisions of Article 7. Such a solution is certainly not acceptable for us Social Democrats and we have opposed it. We also opposed the amendment that came from the coalition species. After a detailed review of this amendment, we can see that, in this rapid consideration, some of the remaining fishing grounds for a special purpose have been preserved, some have been united together, which may also make sense, and we could say that the solution to the amendment is not disputed, but unfortunately that is not the case. The stumbling block or in which the rabbit lies is a hunting ground with a special purpose of Prodi-Razor. Part of this hunting ground is wanted to connect with the hunting ground with the special purpose of Triglav Bled and part join the hunting family Ljubinj, which is not a hunting ground with a special purpose, but it is a voluntary one, I will say amateur, society. Why does the coalition propose such a solution? Who has an interest in hunting for a particular purpose of Prodi-Razor? A lot has been written about this in the media, and if this is true, it will happen that a cabin that is officially passed into the property of the State or Triglav National Park, but, look at it, is located on the very part that will join the Ljubinje hunting family, sold in due course, as it sounds from circles near the leadership of the Triglav National Park. Let's not talk about the rich part of the ravine with the gams and other wild animals. At the meeting of the parent committee, the Social Democrats proposed an amendment that would preserve all the fisheries with a special purpose currently in existence in Slovenia and at the same time eliminate the legal system's non-compliance if it already exists between the said articles. The amendment has not been adopted, so we are re-investing it because we believe that the dictatorship, as it is now written, is harmful. It is also justified to doubt that the solution currently being written is the basis for the possible privatisation of the fishing area with a special purpose and ensures the partial interests of a narrow target group. We can certainly say that the objectives and solutions enshrined in the law are not real and true, because neither the explanation of the bill nor the explanation of the proposed amendments shows the objective pursued by the proposed solutions. In the Group of the Social Democrats, we believe that the proposal is controversial and harmful. Once again we propose an amendment that solves the situation in a way that preserves LPN and at the same time eliminates irregularities in the law. We are already predicting that in the event of the non-admission of our amendment, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Wildlife and Hunting will not receive our support and we will oppose it. At the same time, we stress that if the law is passed, we will closely monitor what will happen to the said hut and how quickly the conditions for its sale and to whom will be established. And then we'll be loud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The law is essentially the basis for the privatisation of hunting grounds of particular importance. While this is not about privatisation in the classical sense of simply selling LPN to someone, it is about removing these LPNs, which are tax-listed, from the law and leaving the government with scissors and canvas in the design of these hunting grounds. This is mainly because LPN, which is all in the management of the Forestry Institute, has for decades been facing pressures from neighbouring hunting grounds that are in the management of hunting families that want to expand to the area of LPN and have a business there. In 2004, LPNs were renamed from so-called breeding grounds, and at the time of this change, fishing was reduced to the account of the hunting grounds of neighbouring hunting families. The LPNs are therefore smaller than the ones at the time, not negligiblely, but together for more than 8,685 hectares. This trend is only continuing with the proposal of the law. However, illogicality is so clear that the purpose of the law is in fact something quite different from what it appears to us. This is also recalled in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Government is even aware of the unconstitutionality when it says that the legislative material does not imply that the content which may be subject to sub-legislative regulation and, if the content of the legislation is reserved to the legislator, the proposed solution would mean that the executive branch assumes the powers of the legislative branch of power. So for a government facade of the explanation of the law, which is completely flawed, private interests are hidden. Pressures on the contraction of LPN have been carried out for a long time and have especially intensified under this government. Especially the great pressure is on the prodi-razor hunting ground. Now we come to the amendment of the coalition that was adopted on the committee, and this amendment has shown that the purpose of the law is not really to harmonise the articles, nor is it intended to privatise the LPN, the law is aimed at Prodi-Razor and is the lobbyist butter of those who will profit from it. Everything else in the marriage stays the same. Three fishing grounds in Kočevska are even joining together, which was also the proposal of the Institute for Forests, and is written by LPN Brdo pri Kranj, because in practice we already have. The only real change will be the LPN Prodi-Razor, which will obviously be dismembered in favour of the Ljubinj hunting family. And again it will be in the eyes that it is completely unreasonable why it should be divided, while all the other LPNs remain the same as they are, except for the three nomadic, which even unite. As far as we know, the new LPN borders are already drawing in the background, the Prodi-Razora reduction proposal has long been at the Institute for Forests, and the problem is that everything is not going so fast. This problem is clearly the professional integrity of employees at the Slovenian Institute of Forests. But with much will and little time or with little time and much will, this will also move, and a change of this law, a smoke screen with which the two articles are supposed to be aligned, would make this possible. With the amendment of the coalition adopted by the Committee, this smoke undertaking has become clear and is now clearly visible for the purpose of this law. Finally, it is simple to draw the borders of the LPN Prodi-Razor, away from the public's eyes and at the wishes of some of the interests of the background. It is said, and these rumors do not come from just one source, that one of the main protagonists in the entire story is the leader of the SDS Group Daniel Krivec, who lobbies precisely for the changes of the previously mentioned protagonists Prodi-Razor, who would go for the most benefit of the Lubin hunting family, with the entire hunting family not even knowing what some members of its members are up to in cooperation with the ruling policy. On more than five occasions, the GHS has already rejected the proposed amendments. This law will overtake all the expertise of managing LPN and the integrity of ZGS and will force them to draw the borders of LPN Prodi-Razor on a new one. Of course, they are not under the same pressure of all areas, nor is it the whole LPN Prodi-Razor to join the Lubin hunting ground. The pressure is mainly on areas that are most interesting in terms of service from tourism and on those where hunting huts are owned by the country in the most idyllic places. If the management of the entire fishing area is transferred, it is likely that the management of hunting cabins will also be transferred, which will become private residences of the main protagonists in the background of this law and legally still in state ownership. The law is extremely dangerous and harmful, it is stolen by those who, by will, have abused the legal changes in the background through the members of the largest government party, so we strongly oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The situation in agriculture is very serious because of the great damage caused by beasts and game. Since 2008, the animal population has tripled and the number of livestock farms has decreased by 21% and the number of poultry has decreased by 28%. This leads to the loss of cultural agricultural landscape and negative social and demographic trends in the Slovenian countryside. Effective and active management of wildlife populations and large beasts is required, and appropriate compensation must be paid to farmers for the damage. The stock of large beasts and common deer must be returned to the state 30 years ago, as this is the only way to ensure the inhabited and processed countryside. We also need well-organised, efficient and responsive fisheries for this purpose with special purpose. The original solution, deletion of Article 68 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, would eliminate legal system-wide inconsistencies between the provisions of Article 7 and Article 68 of the ZDlov-1. It would also clarify the powers the Government has in the field of hunting for specific purposes. This would also ensure the smooth implementation of the public service tasks, the sustainable management of game in special-purpose fisheries set out in ZDLOv-1. This would make it possible to implement the government's sub-legislative rules. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the amendment of the Coalition to Article 1 of the Law was adopted on the home working body, which preserves the named fishing grounds with a special purpose and also the legislator's competence to establish fishing grounds with a special purpose. The amendment also governs the additional fishing area with a special purpose of Brdo pri Kranju, which was established by the Regulation establishing a fishing zone with a special purpose for Brdo pri Kranj. There is also a merger of three hunting grounds Medved, Sneznik Kočevska river, Žitna gora in the hunting grounds Kočevsko, which will rationalize the operation and improve the effectiveness of these fishing activities with special purpose. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be unanimously supported by the Law amending the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the SAB Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government wanted to convince us that the novel brought about a benign change, which merely eliminates the current marital imbalances linked to special-purpose fisheries. Today, the law provides in Article 68 for which hunting grounds have special purpose status. Within these hunting grounds, specific conservation and guidance tasks shall be carried out for the development of wildlife populations and their living environment. The applicant simply wished to delete Article 68, which means that the government can itself judge and decide on the establishment of specific fisheries. Such a solution is totally contrary to the purpose of the law, since the executive branch of the authority gives more rights than it does. Today, the latter only has the power to enforce the legislator's decisions and not to take decisions instead. We objected to such a proposal in the SAB. The Constitution clearly provides that the conditions for the exploitation of natural resources, the care of a healthy living environment, the protection of endangered species shall be laid down solely and exclusively by law and not by acts adopted by the Government. Under the line of reference, the transfer of the powers vested in the national assembly today as a legislative body to the government would be contrary to our constitution, which clearly sets out which goods and spheres of our lives are so important that it does not leave them to the government. The coalition subsequently tabled amendments to the proposal, which has only one substantive article, eliminating the government's attempt to transfer powers from the legislative to the executive branch. This raised a perfectly legitimate question to us, why does the government insist on this law at all? The government's purpose was to expose the coalition amendments, namely the division of the prodi-Razor fishing area by becoming part of the special purpose hunting ground Triglav and the Ljubinje hunting ground. Part of the land would join the neighbouring hunting ground Triglav Bled, which is managed by the public institute Triglav National Park, and the rest of the current fishing area Prodi-Razor would join the fishing grounds Ljubinj, managed by the hunting family Ljubinj. It seems that the government is in a great hurry to pass laws written on someone’s skin towards the end of the term. Therefore, they also continuously propose reduced procedures, as is the case in this case. Such a change was the most sought after by the hunting society Ljubinj. We also find our fellow Member among the members of this hunting society. But the Institute of Forest and Professional Affairs insists that the land of the prodi-Razor hunting grounds remain united. The status of hunting grounds with special purpose obliges us to exercise the utmost care in a specific area of nature. The Regulation establishing these hunting grounds among their specific tasks in the first place also provides for the preservation of the integrity and diversity of fisheries and biodiversity. However, the proposed amendment is moving beyond all the professional criteria and therefore the SAB Group will oppose this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello to you all again! We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, following a reduced procedure. In order to understand the law under consideration, it is also necessary to know a little about the situation on the ground, in this case in the forest. According to data of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the damage after the game is increasing steadily because the shot simply does not follow reproduction. The number of largely parked game is constantly increasing. The maximum damage on agricultural areas is caused by wild pigs, from 70 to 75 % of all damage and the remainder by deer and deer. The increase is mainly due to a lack of food in nature. For years and years, the problem has been the result of inadequate laws and the involvement of NGOs in the work of hunting families as well as in the work of the Ministry. The law currently in force certainly requires much greater changes than those made in the bill under consideration. We must not forget that the particular purpose of hunting is, in most cases, questionable, because these are the hunting grounds that are the rest of the previous system. Despite the fact that the purpose of the law depends on which side the person it assesses seems to us to support the law. The hunters themselves believe that they have both positive and negative sides, but that the main objective of the change will only allow for the smooth implementation of the tasks of the public service for the sustainable management of game in specific fisheries. They wonder whether the so-called elite hunting that has now taken place in the background will be carried out in this way outside these hunting grounds with a special purpose. Perhaps the proposal raises quite a few new questions, but at the same time it also solves quite a few of the challenges that hunting families and forest owners face daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Leon Merjasec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	President, thank you for your word. Hello, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Minister, proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of amendments to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting following a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments to the law. This is an amendment to the 68th Article of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which now stipulates that hunting grounds with special purpose in the Republic of Slovenia are Triglav Bled, Kozorog Kamnik, Pohorje, Fazan Beltinci and Kompas Peskovci, Prodi- Razor, Jelen, Medved, Sneznik Kočevska River, Žitna gora and Ljubljanski vrh. However, this Article is contrary to the legal system of the establishment of hunting sites with a specific purpose or at least inconsistent with that system. With a view to eliminating the legal system's non-compliance between the provisions of Articles 7 and 68 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act and to clarifying the powers conferred on the Government in the field of hunting for specific purposes, and thereby ensuring the smooth implementation of the tasks of the public service for the sustainable management of game in a particular hunting area laid down in the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, the law is amended. With the proposed amendments to the Wildlife and Hunting Act, we proposed an amendment to the committee in coalition parties. This amendment proposes the removal of hunting grounds with a specific purpose of Prodi-Razor, Medved, Sneznik Kočevska Reka and Žitna gora, as set out in Article 68 of the Act. The special purpose hunting ground Prodi-Razor will become part of the hunting ground with a special purpose Triglav Bled and Ljubinj hunting grounds. The hunting grounds Medved, Sneznik Kočevska Reka and Žitna gora are merged into a single hunting ground with a special purpose for Kočevsko, because these hunting grounds are territorially held together and already have the same leader and seat. By pooling these fisheries into one, the operation will be rationalised and the effectiveness of the operation of the fisheries will be improved. In addition to these changes, a new hunting ground with a special purpose shall be added to the Wildlife and Hunting Act of Brdo pri Kranj. Since these amendments to the Wildlife and Hunting Act have no additional financial implications for the state budget and other public funds, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 14 March 2022. The amendment of the SD Group to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 1a and we will therefore discuss all amendments to these articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1 and 1a and the two amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Korazi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. I also have a procedural one. I would like to know that we, too, have made an amendment to Article 1 in the Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Yes, because I have named it, it is 1st and 1st, two amendments from the SD Group and the Levica Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you. We propose an amendment to Article 1 in the Levica. In the amended Article 68, the text “Prodi-Razor” is added after the word “Bled”. But now I'm going to actually come to this law, which is really kind of a smoke screen. First, with some privatisation of these hunting grounds with a special purpose, in fact, it is only for the purpose of hunting with a special purpose of Prodi-Razor to split up, and even this hunting family of Ljubinj strives to belong to them. Also on the committee, when we talked, it became very clear very quickly, on the one hand we are really talking about the privatisation of these hunting grounds for a special purpose, and on the other hand this smoke screen for Prodi-Razor, where there are obviously really great interests, not only political interests, but also the rest of all these great players on the market or even in Slovenia. With this amendment, which we are proposing, the hunt for a particular purpose of Prodi-Razor will be preserved as a separate hunting ground with a special purpose within the borders, as it currently covers, it is said to remain within the limits as it has been so far, but not that there will really be an additional dismemberment of this fishing area with a special purpose, and then the actual fishing family of Ljubinj will be concerned as it has been in the vast majority. As far as we are aware in Levica, and I think that the Committee has mentioned, there have been very great pressures on the Slovenian Forestry Institute, which has actually rejected this proposal on fishing for a particular purpose of Prodi- Razor whenever they have received a request to regulate things, this proposal has been rejected. So there is already basically a problem that we should also address in the field of expertise. If the profession says it is against, then this should be taken into account, then their opinions should be translated into law or taken into account in the law. According to the information we have at our disposal, the Slovenian Forestry Institute has rejected this request or pressure five times to change this hunting ground with a special purpose, Prodi-Razor. As we say, in fact, with this amendment we propose to keep the borders as they were, that there will be no very great irreparable damage in terms of destroying biodiversity and also habitat, because we know that in my view this hunting tourism is currently in Slovenia, unfortunately, popular. This will also be used in the direction of this hunting tourism, which we should also actually discuss, because it is indeed the shooting of animals on the ground, nothing else, for trophies. I also pointed out this at a meeting yesterday, or on my oral parliamentary question, that when we talk about beasts and animals, in fact animals don't deserve to be called beasts, but unfortunately you are a man quite often. In fact, at the end of this amendment we also support this part, which speaks of the integration of hunting grounds with a special purpose of Medved, Sneznik Kočevska river, Žitna gora, which would then be united in a single hunting ground with a special purpose of Kočevsko. As it is said, with this amendment we propose to preserve the boundaries of the Prodi-Razor hunt with a special purpose, and to bring together the previously mentioned areas of the three hunting grounds into the hunting grounds with a special purpose of Kočevsko. Please, if you support him, because I think it is right to wipe out the various political and economic interests that certain lobbyists or lobbyists wish to carry out or transfer to law through this law. If nothing else, we will actually do much good for nature and to preserve our nature or biodiversity. As a matter of fact, the marriage itself is terrible, but with this amendment, at least we are trying to keep things within moral boundaries as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My colleague Baković has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. We Social Democrats have tabled an amendment that brings back these changes, which have been defined by the coalition's amendment, to an old one. I can also agree with my colleague from Levice that it may be reasonable for three fishing grounds from the Kočevska region – Snow White River, Cereal Mountain and Medved to join in one. We can agree with that, but we believe that these changes that have happened are so invasive and dangerous that it is actually best to keep them the way they are. Our amendment to Article 68 or Article 1 speaks of this being maintained, but of course we have also identified the Brdo hunting ground near Kranj, which has been operating all the time, but has not been defined. I listened with interest to the debates or views of the groups. Someone in their debate said that hunting for a particular purpose was the rest of the past system. Really. Is that bad? Is all this bad? Was everything in the past system bad? Does it have to be destroyed? Is that supposed to be privatized? I have a feeling that we are pursuing some Earlish hunting, where only the chosen ones will be able to find themselves in a certain territory rich in wild game. This has also simply proved to be true with the Weapons Act because sound moderators or silencers have been introduced domestically and so on. Because they have neighbors in Austria, they have this somewhere else and it's actually modern. In the end, we found that all hunters, who are hunters with hearts, have the most of them, do not yet have these moderators. If I go back to the amendment. In the debates on the committee, I also saw that part of the prodi-razor hunting ground was now to be given to the Ljubinje hunting family, because that part was once taken away from it. The media or certain media contributions indicate that this was not true. I will not discuss whether this is true or not, but the fact is, what I have also said in the debate itself or in the presentation of the positions of the Social Democrats is that at the work that joins the hunting family of Ljubinj, there is also a hunting lodge. The minister comforted us and said that all properties owned by LPN were transferred to the country. That means it's being transferred to Triglav National Park. But look at him, I've noticed somewhere that Triglav National Park somehow says that those properties that are non-profitable are going to be sold. Now I really want to know if this cabin is going to be unprofitable, and if it's going to go for sale. You'll see that soon enough. And like I said, then we'll be loud. The attempt to delete Article 68, which was first tried to make a marriage or to amend the law, can, of course, be understood in a number of ways. One is that the trophies, the most attractive hunting grounds, are then somehow privatized. That's the part, the experts say, I don't know, but it's this part that belongs to the hunting family that's supposed to be, say, gamma soft. If we had a regime organization on the one hand or an institution that was engaged in hunting professionally, that is, a special purpose hunting ground, during the country's paradise, we will have what today? County areas which will be accessible only to certain ones. And this is some attempt to decommission state hunting grounds. I live in the middle of a hunting ground like this and I tell you that things work great. I can tell the last example from this week or over the weekend, when it was my backyard that a fox was walking, apparently sick, a raven, in a very short time, that hunters of this hunt responded with a special purpose, captured the fox alive, taken it to the vet and did what was necessary. It's working. Why should we change what's good? If we're changing what's good, then there are other purposes in the back. I'm actually getting kind of paranoid myself, and I'm thinking about where the hell some trick is going to change. It's not the only attempt. It is also said that there is supposed to be a submarital act on the new borders of the Krvavec hunting family. I've been talking to some people who say, if this happens there, then the largest site of wild roosters is cut off. And that's what we want? Then, nicely from a table, which is also available to the public, you can see what appetites are like. Let's say a hunting ground with a special purpose, Kompas Peskovci, which was also in the original phase designed to change to go under the hunting families, and were listed possible operators of the hunting family Boreca, Krka, Goričko and so on. Furthermore, Kozorog Kamnik, where we have a whole bunch of these possible operators, and some of them also have a territorial tendency to be part of hunting grounds with a special purpose, where, I will say, well managed where these habitats are good, excellent to move to hunting families. I believe that most hunters, and here I do not want to do any wrong, do it with the heart, both those who are professional and those hunters who are in society as volunteers, that they are not in the first stage filled with savagery. And in the vast majority, I agree with them, it is. But I know the situation, a lot of these hunter guards, I'll say, as we used to call them, they have hunting assistants who are also members of some hunting families and they help and play a key role. Who are we gonna take this to now? Now it is possible, I will also say something in these hunting grounds, of course in accordance with the rules and so on. If we look for Snow White River, there is also a possible manager hunting family Draga - Trava. We also have hunting families set up on paper, and they don't even have a hunting ground. Are we going to give them too? These are the problems that I do not really agree with and oppose. As I said before, perhaps the only thing that makes sense is the merger of the trilopolis over Kočevska under the name Kočevsko. Of course, we have no problems here, and the Left Amendment also addresses this. But the rest, for God's sake, let's leave it the way it is. You know for yourself that a winning horse never changes. In this case, the hunts are for the particular purpose of those who care well. We leave the finances, there may be problems, but we need to look at some higher welfare, that natural habitats are assured that the continuity of supply and management of animals is in place, as it must be that once and for all we can say that everything in the previous system has not been bad. If you think it was, then I don't know, then it's best that we break up because we're all from the previous system, at least my seniors. And let's back off because we're all bad. It's a continuity, then we think about it that way. One more time, I won't be pulling too long. The point is that our amendment is appropriate, in fact, merely to preserve the situation before trying to change the novel of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, and to ask everything to support this amendment. Maybe at another time when the elections are over, when this tension is gone, or maybe maybe I'll say, return any favors to anyone so we can talk in peace and say where we can talk. Today, when the profession opposes it, the Institute of Forests, politics is going into a story that doesn't really make any sense. I'm sorry to have to talk like that, but I don't think it's all clear here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	I will defend our amendment to Article 1, where the hunt with a particular purpose of Prodi-Razor is kept as a separate hunting ground with a special purpose within these borders, which are now specifically covered. This would prevent a part of the catch from going into the management of a public institution and under the management of a private hunting family, including all the properties currently managed by a public institution. As the colleague mentioned earlier, yes, non-profitable movables can be sold. We know very well how various factories, companies, airports, banks have been made non-profitable in these years and then sold for wealth. In doing so, some have assured themselves of unfathomable wealth and power at the expense of others. Some things are community and really don't have to be destroyed. With all the privatisation, when there's nothing left, all we have left is nature. And now it's obviously nature, water, water resources and hunting grounds, forests and so on. This is a very dangerous trend. By now, the forest agency has repeatedly refused to cut the border of the Prodi-Razor. According to our intel, at least five times. The lobbyists at the Institute for Forests have not been successful, but they now have a very sensitive party in power, which the lobbyists like to accept very much. There's two of them, I'll say. And through this ruling policy, they will achieve changes to the law that we are currently considering. The law expressly requires the law to leave the fishing area with a special purpose for Prodi-Razor and this part of the fishing area to the management of the private operator, beyond all professional justifications. With this amendment, we prevent such abuse of political power and therefore refer to this Parliament to preserve so much reason, dignity and state-building that at least we retain what is decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Comrade Merjasec.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. There are some people I need to respond to. Prodi-Razor, hunting ground with special purpose. Many times there has been mentioned a hunting cabin that is here according to hunting regulations. This cabin is more of a bivouac than a hunting cabin. The hunting lodge is big, it's for two, three people to sleep through when they go into the woods. That's one thing. The second thing I can't agree with my colleague is that we're going hunting the countess. As you know, I am a hunter, but I am no count, but I am the master of the hunting family, in which we have also received part of the hunting ground with a special purpose, and with this we manage perfectly. Hunting tourism. Yes, hunting tourism is carried out, most of it is in LPN. This is how they finance themselves, the biggest financial gain they have right from hunting tourism. But they're not hunters from Slovenia, they're hunters from abroad. As far as destroying biodiversity and habitats is concerned, I cannot agree with that either. We have so many hunting families in Slovenia that they will destroy all our environment. I can't agree with that because you're putting hunters of hunting families in one of those nasty situations. Wild rooster. Wild roosts in Slovenia are not wild game hunting, so whoever does this hunting will not be able to hunt wild roosts. As I have already said in my presentation, we support this law as we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica first colleague Tomić, then Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you. I want to make it clear that no one in any way wanted to put hunters in some kind of, you know, ugly position. We respect them very much. Most hunters don't even know what the SDS is cooking for them right now, and your leader of the parliamentary group, what personal interests are here at the back, what lobbyist interests. Let it be clear that hunting is a respected society, which we know in Slovenia, has a long tradition and performs very useful tasks. What you're doing with this law right now is privatisation. And when you say that hunting lodge is an ordinary bivouac. We know very well how the bivouac, when it comes into the right hands, can become a luxurious villa, even if it is in an interesting and attractive location. We know just as well that in support of this government of yours, which is very much involved in corruption, black construction can also be legalized at an attractive location that was previously a shovel, say by the sea. So, please, don't fool people, we're really ahead of the election, but a little bit of basic honesty needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. My friend Baković has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	I'd like to explain this to my Earlish hunt. My friend, you mistakenly thought I named you or any hunter to be Count. But with the changes that are taking place now, it's a feeling that someone wants to introduce the Earl's hunt. With all due respect to the hunters and everyone, as I said at the beginning. As for bivouacs or hunting lodges, yes, I agree, but, you know, Triglav National Park is not allowed to build. All existing objects which are, however, can be adapted. And there will be when this comes into private hands. But as far as the wild rooster is concerned, yes, it is not a hunt, I agree, but if they cut through this area of wild rooster in half, its natural environment will be even more disturbed, there will be more hunters there, there will be more. That's what this is about. Not for someone hunting or chasing a wild rooster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Comrade Korazi, the replica? It's a debate. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to explain, because I might have skipped that in the introduction. See, the area with cottages and apartments currently in Prodi- Razor. All facilities also go to the management of the Triglav National Park. Prodi-Razor is already a very small hunting ground with a special purpose. 80% of us combine it with the Triglav Bled hunting ground, which is in the management of the Triglav National Park, only the southernmost part, which is the closest to the Ljubinj hunting family, goes to management, as I said in the first place, about 500 hectares of 2 thousand 500, as I think the whole size. All facilities, both apartments and cabins, go to the management of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. I thought it made sense to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My friend Korazi has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. I'm just going to tie myself to this Ljubinj hunting family because we're checking information. In fact, information has come that is partly confirmed that this is not the part for which the Lovers ’ hunting family explains or claims to belong to it or that it would ever be taken away from it, for which it is so much advocated. It's called Prodi-Razor. That's the first thing. Second thing. I would like to refer to Mr Merjasc's SDS debate when he spoke about habitats and biodiversity. I think that this is one of the most important things right now when it comes to interference with nature or when it comes to changing some natural boundaries, in this case hunting grounds with a special purpose, because we can destroy the whole part of nature or the landscape with some wrong move and there can be serious problems, including by increasing the number of certain species of animals or even extinction and so on. We should be very careful about this. Even when we are talking about the Triglav National Area, we need to be extremely and very careful that there are no serious problems that may be caused by changing the limits of hunting for specific purposes. Next thing. Speaking of hunting for a particular purpose, Prodi- Razor should be warned about what, I think, my colleague Baković has explained before, including to Goričko or to this Prekmurje area. So the problem is not just this part that is in this proposal, because even there things are not quite clear. Even hunting families are a little confused or do not know what is actually going on or why. I have a simple feeling, and it was earlier that Violet really said that not even hunters or hunting families really know what you're doing with this law. The next thing is hunting tourism, which has become a problem. What Mr Merjasec said before is that tourists from abroad are coming to hunt for us or for the trophies they pay us, or whatever it is, at least from my point of view is unacceptable. [[advertising from the hall]] As it is said, it would really be better to keep things the way they are, not to change them. I think it would be good to hear some expert from the Slovenian Institute of Forests, because perhaps he could add something to this topic or explain things more directly to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Maritime Fisheries Act in the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Anton Hare with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you, President, again for your word. Say hello again at this point. We have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Fisheries. For several years in Slovenian shells, we have been affected by the work, mainly by shellfish, which are the main types of shellfish grown in three breeding areas in the Slovenian sea. These are Fat Rite, Strunjan and Sečovlje. Often, or most of the time, they are kept in and around the shells from April to October, as they are also offered shelter and safety from larger predators and fishermen who cannot fish in the area, 150 metres in this area. Shellfish have been reporting damage to shellfish for years. These have also been confirmed in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Institute for Fisheries of Slovenia, which have also seen the damage several times. The estimate of the damage to shellfish recorded by shellfish ranges from 10 to more than 100,000 euros per year. Of course, we have also considered other ways to solve this problem, from the use of additional nets around planted shells, which turned out to be unpleasant because the net has grown larger. Sound repellents are still in testing, but they also interfere with other marine organisms. We have also considered subsidising insurance premiums, compensation or compensation or insurance subsidies and compensations, but all these solutions are essentially less appropriate. That is why we have prepared a novelty of this law, which essentially solves this problem in the core itself, so we are allowing ourselves to fish for tools in this 150m belt around the shell, of course under special conditions and also special prior permits. This is how we propose to amend and supplement the law in Article 17, where we provide for a special permit for economic fishing. Article 19 shall also be amended, which prohibits fishing in a zone of 150 metres around aquaculture facilities, to amend Article 32, which lays down the conditions for fishing on fishing reserves and Article 51, which lays down criminal provisions. It is proposed that the amendments and additions to the Maritime Fisheries Act be adopted on a rapid basis so that they can be adopted in the first quarter of this year and then be made available during this year, thereby preventing damage to the shellfish themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the amendment to the Maritime Fisheries Act at its 35th session. 2. 2022. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made a concrete comment on Article 3 of the bill. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the bill, and supported by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. There was no discussion on the proposed legal solutions. On the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the SDS, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats - and specifically drafted the amendment to Articles 3 and 7 of the bill adopted by the Committee. The amendments adopted are also included in the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments and additions to the Maritime Fisheries Act have been brought by representatives of the Government on the parliamentary bench in order to ensure that the damage currently taking place to our shellfishers would no longer take place. We could say it's an intervention law. The proposed objectives and solutions are very similar to the nature of the various intervention laws that protect or compensate for damage caused by various factors or reasons. According to the proponents, it is found that the damage to shellfish, mainly caused by shellfish, occurs every year. But our shellfish have no chance of preventing it or at least softening it. The current situation puts them in an unequal position with shellfish from neighbouring countries, where harvesting is also possible within the 150m range around mariculture facilities. ZMR-2 explicitly prohibits such fishing in Slovenian waters. The proposed amendments and additions make it possible to fish for gears and other fish that are fed with shellfish on the basis of a special permit for fishing within the fisheries reserves in Strunjan and Portorož, as well as within the 150m zone of the mariculture facilities, in order to reduce the damage caused by the shells. Amendments and additions would allow regulated fishing on the basis of a special marketing authorisation, which would reduce those damage and would also ensure the conservation and development of mariculture in the Slovenian Sea. Applicants shall record that the tools do not belong to the endangered species, but only a minimum market rate of 20 centimeters shall be determined, which is the only condition to be taken into account under the catch conditions when the special authorisation is granted. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solutions drawn up by the competent ministry. Certainly, our shellfish must be helped and allowed to carry out their activities smoothly and without hindrance. In the light of the current situation, we must not forget the marine life and marine ecosystem, which is known to be extremely vulnerable. We must be careful that the current situation does not deteriorate or deteriorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Slovenia is a maritime state. The clean sea, the preservation of habitats and the preservation of tradition and the culture of fisheries in Slovenia is our commitment. In recent decades, the importance of preserving Slovenian fishermen has been under-emphasized. Only a few of the most dedicated fishing families, which represent fisheries in Slovenia, have been preserved. In addition to fishermen, we also have shellfish which increase the diversity of the industry and the economic importance of co-existence with the sea. Shell growers in Slovenia have been dealing with the problem of shell attacks for some time, causing them economic damage. This is also shown by figures, as the breeding of marine fish and molluscs decreased by as much as 45% compared to 2019 in 2020. The reports on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries for 2020 also see the reasons for this phenomenon in wildlife tools that cause certain harm to Slovenian shellfish originators. The fishermen also turned to the New Slovenia Group, which asked the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Jožet Podgoršk, a written question on the problem of tools and possible solutions. The Ministry responded and prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Fisheries, which solves the problem. The bill makes it possible to fish for work in shellfish areas where workers and other fish that are fed on shellfish cause economic damage. They eat mainly shellfish, which are the main species of shellfish grown in these breeding areas in the Slovenian sea on the Fat Rtič, Strunjan and Sečovje. In the case of reservations where fishing is prohibited, the applicable law already allows for an exception, namely, fishing on the basis of a special permit for commercial fishing and the catch of winter herds of shoes. The same exception is provided for in the proposed amendment to the law in the case of harvesting tools and other fish that eat shellfish for the purpose of preventing damage to shellfish. By amending the applicable law, fishing within mariculture facilities and within a range of 150 metres around mariculture facilities will be permitted on the basis of a special permit for economic fishing to be issued on the basis of a public call setting out the basic conditions and criteria for authorisation. The authorisation will be issued to individual holders of marketing authorisations that will fulfil the conditions and submit an application in due time. There will also be a need for a positive expert opinion from the Institute for Fisheries. The authorisation will only be issued for a specified period of time for a specific area and with the prescribed fishing gear. The economic damage caused by attacks on shells by Slovenian originators is greater each year, reducing the competitiveness of Slovenian shellfishers. The growth, development and competitiveness of Slovenian companies in sea fishing and marine aquaculture, mariculture, is of strategic importance for Slovenia and the New Slovenia Group will therefore support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Fisheries, which solves this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Maritime Fisheries Act prohibits fishing within mariculture facilities and 150 metres in their vicinity. It also prohibits fishing on fishing reserves, namely Portorož and Strujan. And that's where these shells are. The novela is an exception to the regulated harvesting of boars in the area where shellfish growers are located. It is expected that the increase in the number of shellfish-eating tools is causing material damage to the farms, estimated at EUR 100,000. This was called a strategic interest to protect it. One hundred thousand euros can be quite excessive. Such a drop in shell production would seriously jeopardise the cost-effectiveness of production. It is true that the tools are not a protected species, but they move and come to the shells as a feeder, because they store shells there, they have shells and there they come to feed, and they circle around. That's why it's a great area to catch something. However, special permission is granted by law only to those who already have a permit for economic catches. But it is much more intense for mari culture, not only because of the way it hunts, but also because of its scale. The fact is, in this way, a fisherman who has a concession will not only catch a tool but will also catch other fish species from this area. It also appears that in the case of this law, which we adopt after a reduced procedure, the government is in a hurry to adopt laws written to someone’s skin before the end of its term of office and that are in favour of someone. We will not support this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed amendment to the Maritime Fisheries Act seeks to make it possible to fish for gears and other fish that are fed by shellfish. These fish have been causing significant economic damage for several years, mainly by eating shellfish, which are the main species of shellfish grown in three breeding areas in the Slovenian Sea, namely the Fat Rtice, Strunjan and Sečovje. The same shellfishers and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Institute of Fisheries of Slovenia have been reporting damage to shellfish for many years. The estimates of such damage are expected to range from a few tens to several hundred thousand euros. In addition, our shellfish are also placed in an unequal position compared to shells from neighbouring countries, where harvesting is also possible within the 150m range around mariculture facilities. Given that the decline in production in individual years already seriously threatens the economy of production and the continued activity of shellfishing in our country, it is essential to take certain measures. According to the applicable Maritime Fisheries Act, fishing within and around mariculture facilities is prohibited. The schools of Portorož and Strunujan are also located on a fishing reserve where fishing is permitted only on the basis of a special authorisation. The proposed novel is allowed to fish within mariculture facilities and a range of 150 metres around mariculture facilities, but only on the basis of a special permit for commercial fishing. The permit will only be issued for a certain period of time for a particular area and with the prescribed fishing gear, and the condition of prior notification of the fishing inspection and the Fisheries Institute of Slovenia is also laid down. The proposed novelty is thus intended to enable regulated fishing on the basis of a special marketing authorisation to reduce damage and to ensure the conservation and development of mariculture in the Slovenian Sea. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greeting to the minister who joined us. The Slovenian Sea represents about one third of the entire Straza Bay, which is a diverse variety of species, as around 120 different fish and other organisms are caught by fishermen. There are many species of fish present only seasonally. We like Slovenians to work, which is a first-class fish of exceptional taste, especially grilled and ready in the oven. Slovenian fishermen well know that the works live up to 30 metres deep and, exceptionally, even deeper. The problem arises because they carry less salt water well and enter our salt canals, which makes our shell growers gray hair. The fact is, they work late in the summer for our shellfishers and in the autumn cause a lot of damage in klapave farms. The output of the work in recent years is increasing and is of quantity and economic value among the leading fisheries, but the annual quantity is still below 20 tonnes. We estimate that it is important for the preservation and development of Slovenian shellfish to be able to raise a certain amount of shellfish in peace. We have been told that they are extremely satisfied with crop production, demand and sales, but at the same time, they warn us that during the years, most crops are destroying their hoarded tools. Among the most popular are the edible flaps, which place us on the European summit after production per inhabitant. Our citizens and citizens have learned that it is safe, healthy and affordable seafood. In the Slovenian sea, which unfortunately we have very little, we urgently need regulated, controlled and lawful fishing in a zone closer than 150 meters from seafaring facilities. The law will allow fishing for gears and other fish on the basis of a special authorisation within the fishing reserves of Strunjan and Portorož, where fishing is prohibited. In the future, there must be no illegal fishing in the nighttime during infringements of the protection regime in the urinary salts. From 2016 to today they have issued more than 30 payment orders and decisions on the offence committed. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice greeting! Someone may say that this is a less important marriage, but on the basis of complaints from Slovenian fishermen and shellfishers, what is going on in the Slovenian sea, it is high time we got the law on sea fishing. That is why, from this city, we also commend the Minister of State and the other coalition parliamentary groups that we have quickly detected this problem and, hopefully, we are successfully solving it today. The fact is that shellfish have been reporting damage to the shellfish of Fat Rtice, Strunjan and Sečovija for many years, and that, in their opinion, fishermen, as well as in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, damage ranges from a few tonnes to 200 tonnes or between 10 and 100 000 euros. It may seem a small problem, but if, as the predecessor said, we are talking about shells that we probably all like, and we are talking about tools that may not be found on Slovenian plates too often, we are solving two things this time. We are solving the problem that shellfish have been alerted to, and we are solving the problem that we are also satisfied that fishermen can continue to do certain things, not just certain things, they are allowed even additional work, because they have extended the requirement to issue special fishing permits, so that they can be fished closer than 150 metres from these shellfish facilities. In particular, I like that in the coalition's parliamentary groups, together with the Minister, we have taken seriously how to do this in practice. Thus, the proposal for a law that the proposed amendment should provide for a procedure for obtaining special permits, and that the issue of public appeal should also be transparent, so that, as is often the case in the Slovenian legislation, a good proposal will not be taken lightly. This time, we believe that, both at the initiative of the shellfishers and at the initiative of Slovenian fishermen with minor adjustments, we have done what is absolutely necessary to keep shellfish alive and that fishermen will continue to be successful in fishing. And I hope that both of you, the shell and the orad, will find themselves on Slovenian plates as often as possible under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 16 March, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Jožet Podgoršk. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a change of the Agricultural Lands Act, which we believe to be primarily responding to some of the initiatives that we have been given by our shareholders, farmers, and also on your part to protect agricultural land. That's exactly the topic I'd start with. This law brings some innovations in the protection of agricultural land and in spatial planning. Let us make some changes as regards changes in municipal spatial plans in the course of forest deforestation. It's a simplification. We also allow or extend a set of some agricultural sites, such as prefabricated greenhouses, if the production is directly connected to the land, to the ground. We also allow certain temporary facilities under this law, such as winter sports activities and so on. We also allow the use of agricultural land for the storage of agricultural crops up to and including 150 square metres when it comes to the storage of agricultural crops directly on these soils. We also make it possible that the investor of the construction of the pastoral estate as a non-requisitive building is an agrarian community, a pasture community or an agricultural holding that owns or leases at least 50 hectares of agricultural land. We also propose by amending the law that auxiliary agri-farm equipment, such as braids, troublemakers, anti-fowl nets and so on, be allowed on all agricultural land. An instrument for replacing agricultural land with municipal spatial plans and State spatial plans shall be introduced. It is also proposed to extend the obligation to pay compensation for agricultural land with a credit rating of 35 to 50. Over 50 are already being paid compensation for the change of destination. Similarly, orchards intended for the production of fruit, olives and plantings intended for cultivation are allowed on land that is for the purpose and actual use of agriculture. We have a lot of demand here, over a million seedlings every year. Another important segment of this law is the transport of agricultural land. This is how the sale of mixed land, i.e. agricultural and forest land, is regulated in a new way. It is also granted to the owner of agricultural land on which certain spatial arrangements of State importance have been implemented, so that within ten years of sale he can either buy or purchase agricultural land in the area of the same or neighbouring municipality where the agricultural land he has sold is situated. This law also deregulations the rental of private-owned agricultural land. The next important chapter is agrarian operations. Some simplifications are mainly introduced here. Thus, administrative authentication of consent to the introduction of a coma or irrigation system is no longer necessary for the service of administrative writings. The mutual exchange of agricultural land is more clearly defined even when it comes to the exchange of agricultural and forestry land and the possibility of sharing co-ownership in the com-sation process is introduced. We are also simplifying the irrigation system areas, in particular the borders of this irrigation system area, and it has been stated that it is necessary to enter a irrigation contract into the land book. Here we count on these simplifications to encourage agrarian operations. It is also possible to rent free of charge to the hunting and fishing families and mountain societies of those lands which have already been used before the adoption of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. And then there are other provisions. One of these, which is also important, is that the status of a protected farm in legal matters is eliminated among the living and remains in the legacy proceedings. So much for the content. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government proposes that a third consideration of this proposal be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Have a nice hello to you all again! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act at its 35th session. 2. 2022. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in its written opinion pointed out, inter alia, that, in order to add individual sets of articles, which make these provisions in addition to the digitised code, they are not merely an amendment with 61 articles, but an amendment with more than 80 articles. In view of the scope of the applicable law, a new law should be established in accordance with the Nomotechnical Guidelines. The new law is more appropriate if the scope of the novelty is closer to the amendment of a third of the scope of the law. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also made a number of specific comments, which are mainly summarized in the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats and in particular, and were also adopted by the Committee. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 20(2) and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was forwarded to the local communities. Comments from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the Municipal municipalities of Slovenia were forwarded to the National Assembly. At the meeting of the Committee, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food was presented by the Vice-President of the Commission, who considers that the amendments and additions to the law should be consistent with all stakeholders, from farmers and their housing organisations to local communities, and should pursue objectives such as maintaining and improving the agricultural potential for food production. In the face of worrying data on the soil’s soil, legislation should protect every square metre of land in accordance with the concept of food security. The President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia pointed out that we should legally align the conditions for the establishment of farmers on agricultural land for the production of food and treat them in accordance with the model of arrangements for auxiliary agricultural facilities or as auxiliaries to agricultural equipment, such as cross-border networks. We should allow plants which are point-based and can be removed without damage to the land, directly onto the agricultural land. The Chamber also assesses that compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land could be higher as it is the main source of funding for the preparation and implementation of agricultural policy measures. Members of the coalition group's coalition group have expressed their conviction in the debate that the bill is not ideal, but is optimal and brings radical changes in favour of farmers. However, some concerns were also expressed, inter alia, in view of the newly introduced instrument for the replacement of agricultural land if the local community plans to change the use of agricultural land to buildings. In this regard, there is a fear that the spatial arrangements of state importance planned on agricultural land will permanently lose them. The question arises whether local communities will be able to replace lost land at all. In doing so, the applicant did not explain how this procedure would take place in practice. If this instrument comes to life, larger farms will start to collapse in villages or areas around the cities. As problematic as it is, the abolition of the status of a protected farm in legal transactions among the living is also exposed. This option could, in certain cases, result in the loss or fragmentation of farms and should therefore, in the first place, be taken into account for the merger of farmers and agricultural land. In this way agricultural land would be more protected. This is also linked to the issue of self-sufficiency, which is increasingly at risk. With all data on the reduction of processing areas and a number of purchases of agricultural land by foreigners, in particular from the Austrian side, the country should specifically protect these areas in accordance with the concept of food security. Despite the numerous and different expectations of the amendment, the law does not regulate the order of the pre-emptive beneficiaries. There are major problems in this area in practice. By not regulating the priority order among co-owners, the current regime does not pursue the objective of maintaining the agricultural function, but in this way allows speculative purchases. In the light of the applicable agricultural land law, a range of facilities and interventions are being extended to premises that the local community in the spatial act can permit to build on all agricultural land. The inadmissibility of allowing remote and local pipelines, communication networks with related facilities and buildings to perform religious rituals is noted. These are facilities which, according to some members, are not allowed to be regulated in the Agricultural Lands Act. In the debate, the Committee also adopted some of its amendments and, as has already been said, adopted amendments from SDS, Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats and More specifically. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us a law on agricultural land, which is very important for the future of Slovenian agriculture. It is one of the roof laws and the basis on which the agricultural policy of Slovenia will be built in the future. The bill received broad public debates and a number of coordinations. The draft novel was in the public debate and in the first round of intersectoral coordination as early as December 2020. The law regulates a number of areas and is substantively extensive. The obligation to pay compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land with a lower rating is extended from 35 to 50 points. An agricultural land replacement facility shall be introduced if the local community plans to change the intended use of agricultural land to buildings and areas of mineral raw materials while meeting the conditions of comparable land and the quality of agricultural land on which an alteration of the intended use is planned. The owner of an agricultural land which has sold land for the purposes of the implementation of spatial arrangements of State importance or has been released shall be allowed, within ten years of the sale or leasing, to purchase or purchase agricultural land in the area of the administrative unit in which the agricultural land he has sold lies. In the course of the comassation procedure, the ownership of each land or several land invested in the comasation fund may be shared with a view to improving the use of the individual land. The possibility of building state irrigation systems proposed by the Agricultural Land Fund is introduced. After five years from the construction of the state irrigation system, the Fund may transfer ownership rights to the local community in the management and maintenance of the state irrigation system. Agricultural land is a very important natural property where the right hands of Slovenian farmers produce food. They provide us with sufficient food supplies and lead Slovenia towards self-sufficiency and therefore the key objective of Slovenian agricultural farming and adequate protection of agricultural land against permanent change. In Nova Slovenije we see family farms with a variety of production and various complementary activities as the pillar of Slovenian agriculture. Since the law follows these objectives, the Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a major novel of the Agricultural Lands Act. The changes envisaged relate to the area of agricultural land protection, spatial planning, agricultural land transport, agrarian operations, inspection provisions. Taking into account that amended construction legislation, a set of admissible facilities and interventions to the premises on agricultural land shall be established. Any agricultural land whose destination is to be converted into a building will have to be replaced by an agricultural land of equal value, otherwise the municipalities will have to pay increased compensation. Transport with protected farms among the living has so far been limited as is limited in the case of inheritance. Following a new restriction aimed at preventing the fragmentation of farms, this restriction is deleted. We therefore rightly ask ourselves whether protected farms will still retain their special status. In the SAB Group, we believe that this is a law of great importance not only for agriculture and rural areas but for the whole of Slovenia. Food, self-sustainment, locally grown food and rural areas must be our greatest interest. We are obliged to preserve the fertile land for the next generation. Its preservation is also important in terms of sovereignty, since tomorrow we will depend on others who will tell us what we will eat and drink if we are not able to produce our own food. On our initiative, the right to drinking water has already become a constitutionally protected right, but it is necessary to take a step further and to protect other strategic days of natural prosperity. The aim of all proposed changes is to improve the protection of agricultural land and, in fact, the proposed legal solutions do not protect our agricultural land which is essential to self-sustainment. On the contrary, since the pursuit of the objective, the law has been offering solutions that will allow for greater liberalisation of the management of these lands. In the SAB Group, we believe that we already need to focus all efforts on preserving and improving the agricultural potential of our agricultural land. Today, we face an ever-increasing foundation of fertile land, causing it to be lost from day to day for the sake of new buildings and roads forever. Capital pressures on change of destination are strong. It is clear that today’s walled land brings a hundred times more than agricultural land. It is true that the building of agricultural land and deforestation will not be able to be completely disposed of, but we can draw up legislation that will limit it as much as possible. This restriction has not been recognised in the proposed legal provisions. The fertile land is one of the greatest treasures. Ensuring self-sustainment is essential if we are to maintain our sovereignty. The task of the minister and the government is to ensure by means of the proposed law that the Slovenians on our land produce our food. Since we have not fully recognised these ambitions in the proposed legal solutions, we will not support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! We are therefore considering today a specific set of agricultural measures which, after a broad public debate and many coordinated with stakeholders, have found their place in the proposed amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act. The objective of re-establishing agricultural land is to introduce a new agricultural land replacement instrument in cases where the local community plans to change the intended use of agricultural land to building and mineral raw materials areas. A range of facilities and interventions are being extended to accessible areas on agricultural land. Additional agri-agricultural equipment will be available on all agricultural land. In the Group of Members, we also support the extension of the obligation to pay compensation for agricultural land with slightly lower ratings. So far, the regime has awarded compensation for sites with a rating higher than 50 points and the amendment reduces this limit to 35 points. The sale of land with mixed use is subject to new regulation, namely agricultural and forestry use. The conditions relating to the exchange of land shall be defined more precisely, especially when it comes to the exchange of forest land for agricultural purposes. From now on, seedlings intended for fruit, olives and afforestation will be allowed on agricultural land. With the amendment of the law, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia will be given the possibility of temporary management even in cases where the owner does not have a known residence or legal representative and does not handle the land as a good master. With regard to the changes in agrarian operations, we are particularly pleased with the proposaler's efforts to reduce administrative burdens as much as possible. For example, measures to simplify the service by mail, the suspension of administrative approvals for the introduction of individual agrarian operations and so on. With regard to the abolition of the status of a protected farm in legal matters between the living or, in other words, the amendment retains the status of a protected farm only in legacy proceedings. In this respect, we have had some concerns in our Group of Members, because we are not entirely sure of the meaning of this type of preservation. We believe that a more appropriate solution should be considered, which will better protect the category of agricultural land. Recognizing that most of the solutions envisaged have also been welcomed by stakeholders directly concerned by the amendment of the law, the review of these measures gives us additional confirmation that they are appropriate. However, in the Group of Members, we must express our concrete regret that in the final text of the law that is before us today, there is no longer a proposal for a article that has been re-assuming the order of pre-emptive beneficiaries regarding the exercise of pre-emptive rights on agricultural land. Since there was a broad consensus on this amendment to this Article, we hope that this future issue will be resolved and realized as soon as possible. The right attitude towards agricultural policies is a particular high priority for the party and this is a key priority in the spirit of the present. To achieve development for all regions, it is important to strengthen Slovenian agriculture and achieve its greater weight in the food industry chain. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that in the future, the key strategic element for the development and high standard of living in Slovenia will be Slovenia's high self-sustainment with domestic food, so all further support in this direction, as well as the solutions to the law that we have on the table today, will be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Slovenia is an extremely rich country with forests. Our wood industry is strong and we take good care of maintaining forest areas. However, we do not have enough working surfaces. Slovenia is by no means self-sufficient in food production, so we must make certain moves at this point. Any change in the target use after deforestation for agricultural purposes will have to be introduced once a year by the local community into the spatial act of the local community. The proposal will also extend the range of facilities and interventions to areas that the local community in the spatial act can permit to build on agricultural land. I can include marking and guidance boards that show different paths from learning to explaining projects, guidance boards for the needs of farms and agricultural events, etc. Areas for the storage of agricultural crops and areas for the storage of plant residues from agricultural production shall also be considered as a set of facilities. For liquids, the impermeability must be regulated and, at the same time, the coverage of drained and parachuted water from these surfaces must be ensured. They must also be re-used in the composting process. In addition, moving animal rearing facilities such as bees and moving hens, temporary facilities and temporary interventions during the season and other specified facilities shall be considered among the facilities. An instrument for the replacement of agricultural land is also an extremely important change if the local community plans to change the use of agricultural land to buildings and areas of mineral raw materials. Of course, it is essential that the change itself improves the agricultural potential of existing agricultural land. It is in no way acceptable for a quality agricultural area to be destroyed and regulated by an object that would have a negative impact on management. The proposal also sets out a clearer definition of the conditions for the exchange of land between countries, especially when it comes to the exchange of agricultural land or vice versa. This is sometimes a practice of mountain farms because pastures or fields change for forest land. The possibility of sharing co-ownership in the com-sation process is also being introduced, and the possibility of building state irrigation systems is being re-imposed. It also introduces an agrarian division operation on agricultural land where it is co-owner of the Republic of Slovenia. Many important amendments are made to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands. In the Desus Group, we believe that all changes are a step in the right direction, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act. The proposal for an agricultural land law is certainly necessary and necessary, changes and additions must be coordinated among all stakeholders. We have in mind Slovenian farmers, local communities, representative associations and others. Together, we must pursue the objectives of maintaining, and in particular, by working together to improve the production of our food. In the SNS, we have always advocated Slovenian food production so that every citizen knows what he has on his plate. We are certainly also in favour of an urgent increase in agricultural land for food production, as the current situation shows us that we will import less from abroad in the future. We advocate the sustainable treatment of farmers with fertile land, that we can appreciate it as Slovenians, and that it does not grow into the forest. All of this is easier at today’s rapid pace of life by pensioners than by young people who have little or no time to learn or practice farming at all. We must work to keep our farms from generation to generation and to keep rural development going. No one wants the decaying lonely farms in a beautiful unspoiled nature with a view of the city. It freezes us with the thought of how much fertile soil is built in Slovenia. In the light of food security, our laws should protect every square metre of agricultural land that, unfortunately, is lost from day to day because of the rapid growth and change in their intended use. It is also a necessary fact that the building of agricultural land is a irreversible process with which we are permanently losing agricultural land. The building pressure is the largest right in the flat part of Slovenia, preferably somewhere near the mega malls, near highways and so on. One of the main solutions is the replacement of agricultural land, if the local community, the municipality plans to change the intended use of agricultural land to buildings and areas of mineral raw materials. This means, in practice, that municipal spatial plans provide for the reallocation of dedicated use, the replacement of agricultural land and the improvement of production potential. The law brings many beneficial solutions for citizens of Slovenia, or for our farmers, who will gain more in the long term with amendments and additions to the agricultural land law than they will lose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! Good-bye to all of you again! In view of all the comments, as well as the demands of the various agricultural operators in the SDS Group, we have followed with interest the preparation of the law itself, and then coalition coordination, since in our opinion the agricultural land law we are considering today and the agricultural law that we will also consider at this meeting is an alphabetic or catechism in the field of agriculture. They open up so many important topics concerning each Slovenian farmer. Finally, we can recognize that we believe that we have made this law even better by fruitful cooperation within coalition species and by broad debate. This marriage is not ideal, but it is optimal. There's a lot of important things in there, but maybe some things didn't come into this marriage, but we believe it's coming into the next novel of this law. The fact is that this law brings a lot of important measures and solutions. For example, articles that talk about a range of interventions to the premises. Those Members, who are also municipal councilors or have ever been mayors, know how important it is to adopt municipal spatial plans to resolve specific matters. Unfortunately, too many times, when some farmers wanted to save something on their agricultural land, legislation prevented them from doing so because there was too much. That is why we strongly support a wider range of interventions into space. It also seems very important to us that in this law we have opened up a solution to the issue of protected farms, which, in our view, are a remnant of the previous system, which in practice had many problems both for the owners of protected farms and for all others who may have wanted to have some kind of intervention in these protection farms. Since I come from Posav, I am very much in favour, as well as colleagues in the SDS Group, of the areas that are being re-saved or opened up: comas, agromeliorations and irrigation systems. Above all, in recent weather conditions, we have talked a lot about irrigation systems and solutions, so we are very pleased that this is a part of the law that gives important note and we believe in a faster solution to these problems and faster construction of irrigation systems. In the SDS Group, we also dealt with a lot of questions and articles relating to the credit ratings of agricultural land and the compensation itself. There is no secret that we have had major concerns about compensation, so in the SDS Group we believe that these compensations do not increase, but we agree with the solution to the 35 rating, as that minimum agricultural land needs to be maintained and processed. According to the SDS Group, this is an optimal solution in the field of ratings in this law. We also support solutions in the area of the construction of auxiliary agri-forestry equipment on agricultural land. For example, that a farmer cannot build a beard on some agricultural land is marred by a healthy farmer's cleverness, and we believe that by interfering with these articles of the agricultural land law we have made at least one day more beautiful, not to fight windmills in the wind. I will conclude with a matter which, unfortunately, has not come to the green branch since 2005 and this is a question of order. The fact is that the current order of purchase, purchase and exchange is not optimal. We have had many opportunities to listen to young farmers, local farmers, what is happening in practice, how speculative purchases are happening and everything else, but unfortunately, within coalition coordination we have not found a legal solution to give local farmers more validity. We therefore hope that this law will receive at least further changes in this area. To conclude, thank the Minister, all the other agricultural actors who have actively participated in the drafting of this law, that we have received a very important law that raises a lot of questions, but we are also solving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Certainly before us is one of the most important laws in the field of agricultural policies, which began to be drawn up in the period of the previous government. In the process of drafting the law, several versions were presented in public, on the basis of which today we can find that the proposed law does not contain some key ideas that have been much written and even more pronounced. Despite long-standing discussions, we are still facing tough nuts, such as a change in the order of the pre-purchase beneficiaries in the purchase of agricultural land. In LMŠ we hoped that a majority agreement would be found on the change in the purchase of agricultural land, because today it is difficult to say that the current regime still responds to the modern challenges of agriculture and the main features of the development of Slovenian farms. In addition, it still allows speculative purchases and does not follow enough to ensure the processing function of agricultural land. In the LMŠ, we would like to place particular emphasis on the current issue of plant planting, because production is directly linked to agricultural land. We are witnessing the impacts of climate change on agricultural surfaces, so planters on various agricultural areas will become reality, even if we want to maintain sufficient food supply. The law proposes that buildings for plant production, if the method of production is directly linked to agricultural land, may be built on all agricultural land, if permitted by a spatial act of the local community, but we are mainly afraid of the absence of a professional basis on the criteria which are in the local community domain, in particular in terms of taking into account the characteristics of the different conditions for farming in Slovenia. Farmers and farmers from one municipality will thus still be in an unequal position with farmers and farmers in other municipalities with different criteria for the establishment of such plant species. It is precisely because of these different conditions and the slow changes in municipal spatial plans that Slovenian farmers in certain parts of Slovenia are so difficult to apply for calls for funding for rural development measures in the area of adaptation to climate change. We also know that the additional spatial implementation conditions for the installation of auxiliary agri-agricultural equipment, to which they belong, based on the proposal, including greenhouses, are unnecessary and constitute overriding, since this kind of competence of local communities is already derived from other regulations. In the light of the marked climate change, we also welcome the facilitation of the use of irrigation systems and, in addition to the already functioning irrigation systems of local communities, the possibility of reinstituting state irrigation systems. In maintaining and exploiting agricultural potential and increasing agricultural land for food production, sustainable management of fertile land, conservation of landscapes and conservation and development of rural areas, one of the key prerequisites for protecting agricultural land is the legal meaning of the word. It is precisely the war situation in the area where most food has been produced for Europe and beyond that reminds us that food security has gained new importance, which requires us to look at the construction of agricultural land, surfaces and also the construction of transport infrastructure. In Slovenia we have a major problem of fragmentation of the property. With 800 square meters of working land per inhabitant, we are at the tail between European countries. Since land for construction purposes can earn much more than food production on it, the pressure on agricultural land will increase in the future. But it's on local and national policy to protect it. New magnums can no longer be afforded in today’s food-resistant times, even if replacement agricultural land has been provided. Although agricultural land protection proposals are going in the right direction, there is not enough to talk about comprehensive protection of agricultural land. In LMŠ we certainly want healthy and responsible agricultural policies. Any further changes to the roof law in the field of agriculture must be considered in the context of acute global conditions, as it appears that the processing of agricultural land is invaluable. In LMŠ, we will not oppose the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	Dear President, Honourable Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! The legislative proposal, which partially amends and complements the Agricultural Lands Act, is another series of laws that the government has enacted on our tables or have been prepared and written in the departmental ministry. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the introductory text states that certain proposed amendments and additions are necessary as difficulties or complications arise in the implementation of the statutory tasks and that the legal matter also needs to be amended in order to comply with the new construction legislation. Well, these are only two essential reasons why we will decide on changes and additions, because there are more, because the legal matter is extensive and the proposed objectives and solutions are great. Applicants note that the objectives of the law are the following: compensation for agricultural land should be established if the local community plans to change the intended use of agricultural land to buildings and areas of mineral raw materials; the obligation to pay compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land should be extended also for agricultural land with a credit rating of 35 to 50 points; the possibility of dividing co-ownership in commercial proceedings and the introduction of a new agrarian co-distribution operation on agricultural land where the Republic of Slovenia co-owners and where co-ownership has been established following completed denationalisation procedures. In order to achieve the objectives set, the drafters proposed a solution in as many as eight chapters or eight sets. The solutions relate to the set of changes to the intended use after deforestation for agricultural purposes, the set of eligibility to build on agricultural land, the set of auxiliary agri-agricultural equipment on agricultural land, the set of replacements for agricultural land, the set of compensation for changes in the destination of agricultural land, the set of agricultural land transport, the set of agricultural land purchases and the set of agricultural operations. The amendments and additions proposed by the proposers are not limited. The bill is written on more than 90 pages, showing that solutions and objectives are complex and broad. The competent commission of the Council of State has given support to the law. However, a number of amendments had to be adopted at the meeting of the parent committee, which had resolved the concerns and comments put forward by the Law-Legal Service. We have examined the proposed legal material in the Group of Social Democrats. We agree with the motioners' statements that the problems encountered in the implementation of the law must be addressed and solutions found that make the processes easier or more feasible. While we welcome and agree with some solutions, we remain skeptical and reserved to some solutions, but this does not mean that we will oppose the marriage proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 16 March 2022, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the agricultural laws under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršk.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Agrarian communities in the Republic of Slovenia own as many as 77 thousand 486 hectares of agricultural land. Most agrarian communities have an area of between 15 and 300 hectares. On average, the agrarian community has poor 34 members. There are now 32 agrarian communities in the register and 357 agrarian communities in the business register at Apes. We are therefore aware that the normal functioning of agrarian communities must also be assisted. Property ownership or co-ownership is a major problem in its operation. We believe that a major error has been made in denationalisation, because historically, the centuries of agrarian community and ownership have been linked to the farm, not to the owner. However, when denationalisation took place, the shares returned to the owner who was at the time of nationalisation. This has resulted in a large fragmentation of shares and also a large number of members of agrarian communities. From this title, agrarian communities have repeatedly warned us that they have great difficulties in managing agrarian communities. We are therefore proposing some changes. We have also been reminded of some of them by honourable Members and Members. Let me point out just a few of them: Mr Chernigoj, Mr Simonovic, Mr Lisec and so on, not to mention, because it is likely that someone will be released needlessly. By amending the law, we are giving the president of the agrarian community a significant role. This will facilitate a number of procedures, as the President of the Agrarian Community will have several actual operational options. Let's slowly go through the individual news of this law. In the new law, we also allow for registration of those agrarian communities whose assets have not been confiscated or received only partial nationalisations since World War II. These agrarian communities have been released from the current law. The compulsory quorum for the adoption of a basic act, which is also a condition for the registration of agrarian communities, shall be reduced at the General Assembly. We also allow certain transfers of the co-ownership share of the country or municipalities from the agrarian community to the other members, namely, the proposal of the novel provides the basis for the State and the municipality to be excluded from the membership of the agrarian community as its unnatural member. Historically, the local communities and the state were never members of an agrarian community. Following a proposal from the novel, the State has an obligation to free transfer its co-ownership share in the agricultural community to other members of the agrarian community, which must be implemented within two years of the entry into force of the novel. The municipality, however, gives the possibility of transferring its co-ownership share if it so decides. In the case of an inheritance without heirs, the proposed novelty also allows the property to be owned by the remaining members of the agrarian communities instead of the municipalities. Here too we extend the so-called transitional period after which agrarian communities are to be transformed in accordance with the new law for an additional five years. We are also allowing the agrarian community to have tax numbers and that the president of the agrarian community will be able to carry out, on behalf of all members of the agrarian community, the following procedural actions: to make forecasts for the taxation of real estate, forecasts of capital income and so on. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Here, too, the Government proposes to hold a third consideration of this bill in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the amendment of the Agricultural Community Act at its 35th session. 2. 2022. Under Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 20(2) and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. Until the expiry of the deadline, opinions from the Municipality of Jesenice, the Municipality of Rečica ob Savinja, comments from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and comments from the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia were forwarded to the National Assembly. In their comments, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food provided an extensive written explanation. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in an additional presentation of the written opinion, stressed that, on the basis of their comments, appropriate amendments had been prepared. However, with regard to certain comments, the Ministry provided an appropriate explanation. With regard to the Committee's amendment proposal to Articles 1 and 12 of the draft law relating to the tax number, however, she pointed out that Article 33(1) of the Tax Procedure Act provides that the tax number shall be assigned to the taxable person in the manner and under the conditions laid down in the Tax Procedure Act and the Financial Administration Act. The Vice-President of the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council and the President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, who support the draft law, participated in the discussion. In a short discussion, most members of the Committee supported the proposed legal solutions. The view is expressed that agrarian communities are a relic of the past, which have played a role and meaning in the past and are still one of the pillars of the judgment of the Slovenian countryside in a wide range of areas of Slovenia. However, it is noted that only existing agrarian communities will benefit from transfers to the territory, as the proposal does not address the issue of rural communities where there were no agrarian communities. In the opinion of a member of the opposition group, however, the law is detrimental because the unpaid transfer of municipal or state ownership shares in the agricultural community to other members of the agrarian community constitutes damage to state and municipal property, which, in its view, shows that the purpose of the law is to privatise the last remnants of the total assets of the agrarian community, which has always been collective property. In the debate, the Committee adopted some of its amendments, including amendments from SDS, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats and More specifically, but did not accept the amendment from the Left Group. The Committee also voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The operation of agrarian communities in Slovenia is governed by two laws, the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights, which entered into force 19. 2. 1994 and the Agrarian Community Act, which has been in force since 17. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order for the Agrarian Community Act to be amended, we were warned by a number of members of agrarian communities who faced problems of inheritance, management of agrarian communities and fragmentation of parcels, which made it difficult for the community to function well. Members of Nova Slovenije met with difficulty in their offices in Ribnica, Cerknica and Ilirski Bistrica, so we asked the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Jožeta Podgorška, for an orderly situation. Christian Democrats are pleased that the Minister has listened to our proposals, as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agrarian Community Act addresses the current problems of agrarian communities, taking into account the constitutional limitations of ownership rights and applicable legislation. The tax issue is being addressed, with the proposed amendment to the provision governing the representation of agrarian communities, the legal power to represent members of the agrarian community is extended to tax procedures relating to property management. The President of the Agrarian Community shall also be granted the status of legitimate representative for the purposes of implementing tax legislation. The status of agrarian communities which have not been deprived of their property since World War II is being resolved, and the possibility is also given to agrarian communities whose assets have never been seized by a decision to register under the rules of the Agrarian Communities Act within five years of the entry into force of the amendment of the law. The decision-making issue in the general assembly is also being addressed, and there is a restriction on voting rights in such a way that a member of the agrarian community may have a maximum of one quarter of all votes, irrespective of the size of the co-ownership. There are also restrictions on the availability of co-ownership shares, the transfer of co-ownership shares between the State and the municipality, the provision of inheritance without heirs, the withdrawal of the register under the law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities and the return of their property and rights, and the transition to the regime under the Agrarian Communities Act. Agrarian communities contribute to the conservation and development of agriculture and forestry in Slovenia, such as the conservation of highland pastures, mountains and joint management of forests on the required ground. Moreover, these communities also have a broader importance for the integration of the countries and a broader contribution to the development of the place. In New Slovenia we work for the community, we support the regulation of the status of agrarian communities, so we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mag Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The agricultural community is recognised as an important rural community, ensuring the management and management of the assets of members of the agrarian community, sustainable management of agricultural and forest land, the common realization of the interests of the rural population, the preservation of population and rural customs and rural development. Although members of agrarian communities own almost 78,000 hectares of land, almost 4% of our country's total surface area. The new law solves the issue of property management, which is jointly owned by members of the agrarian community. According to the applicant, the novel enables normal management of this property by providing all its economic, social and environmental functions. Some of the solutions proposed are indeed going in the right direction. In the SAB Group, however, we have concerns about the reduction of property and the impact of the State and the municipalities. After the current arrangement, the estate becomes a legacy without the heir to the property of the municipality, and the municipality becomes a member of the agrarian community or its co-ownership in this community is increased if its membership is already realized. After this new legacy, the congregation would no longer receive it, but an agrarian community. Further solutions to the novel also pursue the goal of removing the country and the municipality from the agrarian community. An obligation is imposed on the State to transfer its share unpaidly to the community and the municipalities must decide on the transfer of their shares at the general assembly. The Real Estate Act makes it clear that immovable property can only be disposed of free of charge where it requires public interest and is therefore transferred to a person of public law. In a specific case, we are talking about transferring assets to natural or legal persons who are members of an agrarian community. We must be aware that the agrarian community can be transformed into a legal entity and its assets sold without restriction. Agricultural land has grown as an investor asset class in recent years, as new investment methods have developed in this sector. Clearly, appetite for these lands is growing from day to day. We believe that the applicant has completely ignored the important role of the State and the congregation, but only they are able to protect the common public needs of a place and the agrarian community will always pursue its own and only its objectives. Therefore, in the SAB Group, the belief that the law is more harmful than the benefits of which we will oppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The Agrarian Community Act, which was adopted less than seven years ago, has set up, among other things, a special way of managing and managing the assets of members of the agrarian community. It has also laid down specific rules on the inheritance of the property of an individual member and rules on the organisation of agrarian communities. The proposed novel seeks to address the issue of ownership management, which is co-owned or jointly owned by members of the agrarian community. The proposed amendments also aim to enable the management of this property by ensuring its functions: economic, social and environmental. Finally, it also wishes to encourage members of agrarian communities who have been registered under the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and to return their assets and rights from 1994 to register under the Agrarian Communities Act, which regulates this area in its entirety. The proposal for a law is an approach to solving the problems that have arisen in practice. Thus, for example, the power to represent members of the agrarian community is extended to tax procedures relating to property management transactions held jointly or co-owned by its members. In addition, restrictions on the availability of co-ownership and registration obligations under the Agrarian Community Act shall be regulated. For all the agrarian communities that have not yet done so, a period of five years from the entry into force of this novel is set. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. From 1994 to today, however, the law has changed several times due to certain shortcomings that have proved to be practical. The draft law thus solves the current pressing problems of agrarian communities where restrictions, property rights and applicable laws are respected. It is very clear that members of agrarian communities own 77 000 486 hectares of land, representing 3.67% of the total area of the Republic of Slovenia. Another interesting information is that on average the agrarian community has about 34 members. We like that the bill has no financial implications for state cash and other public funds. The amendment will, inter alia, allow for normal management with the property of members of the agrarian community, which will be reinvigorated. We are inclined to ensure its economic, social and environmental function in this way. Most young Slovenians are not aware that the agricultural community is recognised as an important member of the rural village. For it is a community which is obliged to preserve property, our green forests, pastures for future generations. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the community, as such, must cultivate deep respect for our country, as it must maintain it for our children, grandchildren and grandchildren in the same condition as it has received from our fathers, grandfathers and great-grandchildren. It is in the interest of all Slovenians to have one of the main objectives of the law as soon as possible. We are talking about sustainable management of agricultural and forest land. We would add that today it is important not only to be a master but also a good master. In our forests, it will therefore be easier to carry out various works and measures in accordance with the principles of co-naturality, sustainability and multi-purpose in order to ensure the ecological functions of forests and the favourable status of species and habitats in Natura 2000 regions. Agrarian communities also aim to preserve population, people's customs and rural development as well as farmers, our people. We estimate that much will have to be done in the future towards regulating public infrastructure and making roads accessible also for remote and rural farms. Under the line, the bill brings many good solutions in the field of tax issues, transfer of co-ownership of the state and the municipality, legacy-free and others. Most importantly, it seems to us that in the case of an inheritance without heirs, the proposed novelty allows the property to be transferred to the municipality instead of the remaining members of the agrarian community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we welcome the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agrarian Communities Act. The Act on the Re-establishment of Agricultural Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights was adopted in 1994 and returned to the members of the former agrarian communities directly to be co-owners or joint owners of immovable property. In the leaded times of communist terror and socialist propaganda, their property was taken away with restraint, which some would like to do today, and which the SDS believes is frightening and very worrying. The ownership of immovable property, land and forest was always linked to the household, not to the owner, but returned to the owners. Agrarian communities have existed for centuries. The state and the municipalities have never been and cannot be natural owners of collective private property. Members of agrarian communities own a good 77,000 hectares of land, which is 3.67% of the total area of the Republic of Slovenia. In the business register of Slovenia, 357 agrarian communities are registered with Apes. Since the adoption of the Agrarian Community Act, there have been some problems, so the Ministry and the Government have prepared a re-establishment of the law. Problems have arisen in tax matters, the status of agrarian communities whose assets have not been seized since the Second World War, and in decision-making at the General Assembly, restrictions on co-ownership, restrictions on the conclusion of the extradition contract and life-sustainment contracts, the transfer of ownership of the State and the municipality, the succession without heirs and also the transition to arrangements under the Agrarian Communities Act. The new law solves all of these problems and, above all, the management of property in a way that will enable it to be managed in an appropriate manner and at the same time allow for a normal management of this property, which will not be dead but will ensure its economic, social and environmental function. This will do another good thing for the Slovenian countryside, which is still favored by this government and by the government coalition in the National Assembly. Because we are aware of how important it is to the Slovenian countryside, how important it is to keep the community in the countryside, how important it is to have a sustainable management of agricultural and forest land and to achieve the common interests of the people in the countryside, to preserve population and customs, and to develop rural areas. The law has no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds, nor is it in line with the European acquis, since the common legal regime of the European Union does not deal with agrarian communities which have been on Slovenian soils as collective private property, which has never been a social property, as some political parties claim, whose predecessors have done nationalisation, thereby causing much damage to communities as well as to their households and their economies and agriculture in general, not to mention the consequences of nationalisation in the economy, which, as in agriculture, we feel very strongly today. That is why in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we are always on the side of Slovenian agriculture, rural and agrarian communities, we will do everything we can to go to them, to listen to them and to adapt them to legislation that will be good in the first place for them, for the country and for everyone else. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unanimously support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agrarian Communities Act. At the same time, we are already predicting that we will always listen to and go to the agricultural communities as well as to all farmers and others who love and work with Slovenian land, and that the legislation will be written according to the standards of those who work. Let them know that they always have allies in us, and we have respect and obedience to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. All due respect! Agrarian communities are, of course, one of the most important parts of the development and conservation of Slovenian rural areas, with a rich tradition of joint management of agricultural areas, conservation farming and forestry, and not least strengthening Slovenian identity based on the preservation of customs and customs. Agrarian communities are important agents of the balance between the exploitation and protection of the natural environment, in particular in the age of accelerated individualisation and social exclusion, where values such as community and cooperation are of particular value. The dimension of the importance of agricultural communities is found in the Slovenian Srečnik as a tradition and opportunities where Dr. Nevenka Bogataj asks the following question: "Will the extracts from milk and its products, fuels, construction wood and pastures be individualized in recent times? The heirs of the current members will put the potential of land marketing, for example, hunting, tourism, wind energy, and forget about the common benefits and survival base?« End of quote. The key task of the country is therefore that the legislation concerning the existence of agrarian communities adapts to the new challenges faced not only by agrarian communities but also by the Slovenian countryside. And there aren't many. A more comprehensive approach to broad sets of ideas and ideas is therefore needed. We have enough people and knowledge in this area in Slovenia. It is not excessive to think of agrarian communities as a concept of the future within a meaningful framework of so-called smart villages. Today's calls for energy and food self-sustainment are further convincing. In the LMŠ, we welcome some solutions, such as extending the legal power to represent members of the agrarian community to tax procedures relating to property management, but on the other hand, some changes are reintroduced with ease and a markedly uncritical imposition on one side. In the LMŠ, the introduction of the lowering of the quorum of voting to decide on property matters in the general assembly of the agrarian community is considered extremely controversial and reckless, since the previous decision by more than two thirds of the votes has already been reduced to a decision by a simple majority. The proposed decision-making by one third of the majority votes may, however, constitute a large democratic deficit to the detriment of an agrarian and wider local community. In connection with the amendments mentioned above, which give excellent power in the hands of only a third of the owners of the agrarian community, the proposal for the separation of the municipality and the state is even more controversial and irresponsible. The unpaid transfer of municipal and state ownership only to the remaining members of the agrarian community closes any possibility of entry into ownership of local families which are in any event linked to the operation of an agrarian community in a given territory. We must not forget that the local community or the congregation has many times acquired a share of families from villages that have died out by proposing that the property be transferred instead of the municipal property to other members of the agrarian community. If we are already talking about transferring shares in the agricultural community to other entities, the possibilities are as diverse and more socially responsible as the overlying claim on the unnatural ownership of the municipality or the country in the agricultural community. In the context of the adoption of the law, the possibility was not even reconsidered first of all of the free transfer of the share from the country to the municipality in which the land of the agrarian community lies. It is simply not justified to claim that municipalities are an obstacle to the development of agrarian communities. We believe that there are isolated examples of disproportionate use, as some ownership of municipalities exceeds even half, but we must not forget the good experience that results from intensive cooperation at local level and at national relations with the Institute of Forests. That the measure is complete, the coalition with an amendment on the parent working body extended the free transfer of the Republic of Slovenia even to land belonging to the protected area or area of natural value in accordance with the law governing the conservation of nature. At LMŠ, when we read the proposed amendments to the Agrarian Community Act, we are once again moved by the feeling that simple solutions to the law are merely a ornament that surrounds the partial and strictly interesting changes that actually make the law before us today. The adoption in certain articles of a poorly imaginable law could, according to LMŠ, have irreversible consequences not only for the future of agrarian communities but also for the protection of important areas for the protection of the area. In the LMŠ Group, we will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agrarian Communities Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Agrarian Communities Act is another series of legislative proposals prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Legal changes and additions are needed according to the applicants, as there have been some difficulties in the functioning and operation of agrarian communities. The current law does not provide for the power of the President to represent members of agrarian communities in tax procedures, which means that the right to tax procedures should be obtained for each transaction individually. The status of agrarian communities, which had not been deprived of their assets since World War II, is also irrelevant. Many agrarian communities in the general assembly are also unable to collect the necessary quota for the adoption of new rules, and difficulties and restrictions exist in the conclusion of extradition contracts and life-long survival contracts. Among the reasons why changes are needed are problems in the management of community property and legacy-free heritage. The bill states that the proposed solutions seek to respond to the current problems and problems that have arisen so far. The proposed amendment also extends the legal power to represent members of the agrarian community to tax procedures relating to property management, in particular immovable property, joint ownership or co-ownership of its members, as provided for by law. This confers on the President of the Agrarian Community the status of legitimate representative also for the purposes of implementing tax legislation. The possibility is also granted for agrarian communities whose assets have never been seized by a decision to be registered under the law within five years of the entry into force of the amendment. In order to facilitate registration by law, the required quorum for the adoption of a basic act for decision at the general assembly shall also be reduced. However, the novelty provides for the limitation of the subject-matter of the extradition contract and the life-sustainment contracts on the entire co-ownership share in all land parcels in the same way as those applicable to gift contracts. The solutions also provide a legal basis for the state and the municipality to be excluded from the membership of the agrarian community as its unnatural member. According to the proposal of the novelty, the State has an obligation to free transfer its co-ownership share in the agricultural community to other members of the agrarian community and the municipality is given the possibility of transferring its co-ownership share if it so decides. However, the condition for transposition is a decision in the general assembly by a majority of all votes. The solutions also provide that, in the case of an inheritance without heirs, the proposed novelty allows the property to be transferred to the municipality instead of the remaining members of the agrarian community. The legislative changes were supported by the competent Commission of the Council of State and the Legal and Legislative Service has written some comments on the amendment itself and has warned. Social Democrats, we have reviewed the marriage proposal, which introduces and brings a number of solutions. We note that some solutions are appropriate and we welcome them, and in our view some solutions are controversial and we cannot support them. Although the amendments have corrected some of the errors pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, some of the solutions to which we remain detained remain in the proposal. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agrarian Communities Act will therefore not be included in our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, colleagues! The right government wants to destroy the last bit of community, solidarity and cooperation. Individualize everything, privatize it, and make people lonely. The property of agrarian communities was of some social property, not only in socialism, but the collective character of this property dates back to the Middle Ages when farmers agreed to jointly manage the agricultural and forestry land they farmed. Although in the 19th century, most land was divided into farmers, dignitaries, and so on, the collective form of ownership over the earth was preserved in two forms. First time. The ownership right was entered in the Land Book into the agricultural community and its members, indicating the ownership of members by name, house number, similar to the special co-ownership of members of the agricultural community. Another time. The ownership right was entered in the land book into the agricultural community without indicating the ownership of members as a specific common property of members of the agrarian community and is further regulated in the rules of the agrarian community. After the 1945 Revolution, agrarian property became a social property, and in 1994 this social property was returned to agrarian communities under the law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities. In most of the cases of re-established agrarian communities, property has returned in the form of a co-ownership share, and in some cases as common property directly to members of agrarian communities. In 2015, however, the Agrarian Communities Act was adopted which regulated the issue of property management, which is jointly owned by the Agrarian Community. The problem is that agrarian communities have essentially become some kind of a share company. Each member has a share in the agrarian community, but he cannot freely dispose of it, but he has certain limitations. Since 1994, the process of privatisation of agrarian communities has been essentially slow. Collectively, in today's globalised capitalism anachronism, managing it is within the predominant framework, that everything needs to be eliminated and that everything together is bad, is in fact very difficult. The problem is also that collective property in the form of agrarian communities has a very long history, which members of agrarian communities, especially those with smaller shares, are very well aware of. The system of this anomaly today cannot simply be attributed to the socialist collectiveisation, as we have heard earlier ideologies here, and all together it privatizes like all other former social property. Again and again, ways are being looked for to address these issues properly, while it is through this regulation that the collective character of agrarian communities is slowly phased out and unfortunately leads to the privatisation of their assets. This novel of the Agrarian Community Act, proposed by the government, is a new episode in this sad process. This government novel is problematic at two points. It reintroduces the possibility of free privatisation of ownership shares and allows agrarian communities to become purely ordinary co-ownership communities within five years of the adoption of this amendment. This means de facto abolishing the collective character of this property and its final privatisation. That is why we have tabled amendments in Levica, with which these two points of dispute are deleted. Municipal and state shares in the agricultural community are the last remaining property of agrarian communities, which is still de facto collective. The free transfer of the municipal co-ownership share of state and municipal property of the agrarian community to other owners constitutes damage to state or municipal property and clearly indicates that the purpose of the law is to privatise the last remnants of the collective property of agrarian communities. This is a free transfer of municipal property to the benefit of individual natural or legal persons who, under the provisions of the Agrarian Communities Act, may in some cases be sold as an agrarian community, but may also be transformed into a legal person and that property may be sold without restriction. Where else did you see this, get something free, hurt the community and then make a profit out of it?Oh, my God! We absolutely disagree.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 March 2022 and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. First he gets the word Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much. As I have already said in my position, we have tabled an amendment in Levica to remove the possibility of free transfer of ownership shares of the State and the municipality to other members of the agrarian communities, as it is clear that the State and the municipalities are harming themselves. This, in our view, is a bad and unacceptable decision. We also delete the possibility that, in the case of inheritance without heirs, ownership shares in agrarian communities may be transferred to other members of this community instead of transferring to the congregation. If we want to preserve this community nature of agrarian communities, such privatisation, which has been taking place for some time, is not acceptable. This law introduces changes that would break down what agrarian communities have always meant, so our amendments try to preserve at least the basis of what agrarian communities were meant to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say, I am very happy to talk to you today, and I would like to see you pass the Agrarian Community Act tomorrow. In this brief debate, however, I will only speak once, and I will comment essentially on both amendments by the Party of the Left. I must say, I am very pleased with this agrarian law. When I opened my office two years ago in Illyrian Bistrica, this was one of the first problems I was reminded of by citizens and citizens from Vrbovo village near Illyrian Bistrica. As I come from the countryside alone, I have become even more familiar with the problems they face in the country, what works in this regard, what makes it difficult, and especially I have come to know the despair and inability of citizens and citizens to resolve mainly the inactive agricultural community. That is why I see a positive step in the right direction and see this agricultural land law as a solution to this problem. I am of the opinion that agrarian communities contribute to the conservation and development of agriculture and forestry in Slovenia, and they have these communities, and this is the most important, broader importance of the integration of the countries and the wider contribution to the development of the place itself. I am alone for the rural community, I will always fight for the countryside, so I am also against the two amendments proposed by the Party of the Left. I am working alone for the community and I am fighting for the community, and I will therefore, in the final stage, also support the agrarian community law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. And I'm just going to get back to Mr Montenegro's former debater. Yes, he said very well that he advocated the welfare of the community. And in fact, when we're talking about an agrarian community, it doesn't really support what it says. The fact is that these municipal and state shares in agrarian communities are essentially the last remaining property of agrarian communities, which is still, in fact, still collective and we must strive to do so. In fact, these municipal and state shares are very important in these agrarian communities, as this also provides an opportunity and, in fact, at the time we live, an opportunity to go together in the direction of some collective property. Food self-sustainment I think will depend very heavily on what kinds of agrarian communities we will have, with what shares, because then it can really happen that these agrarian communities will be privatised, and I think that in this case, when we are actually faced with the fact that we will have to take care of our own self-sustainment, given what is happening in the world and globally, it would be easy to support it. Once again, with regard to self-sustainment, I would really like to see legislation in the direction it seeks to reach agrarian communities that will be as collective, social, state-owned as possible, but not that they will aspire to individuality, to private capital, because in reality then the privatisation of these agrarian communities will follow. Please support this amendment, because if you accept this today, which you have proposed to actually privatize the agrarian community, you will see in about five, six years that I think we will be doing a reverse, which we will simply have to do because of our self-sustainment, because we will have to take care of ourselves as a country and as a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 11 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Boštjan Koražija, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, thank you very much for your word. This is the amendment of the Left Party to Article 11. In fact, this Article removes the possibility that shares in an agrarian community would be shared among the other members of the agrarian community in the case of an inheritance without heirs, rather than in the case of a municipality. We're back to what I explained in the previous amendment. Indeed, it is necessary to strive that these shares of agrarian communities do not go into private hands, to privatize that we will not be deprived of these basic goods that we have or that we can produce ourselves. The worst thing that can happen to us on the market or between these agrarian communities is that they will start competing with each other and then we will depend again on the private sector or on the private sector. Please, if you support the amendment. As I explained earlier, the following years will be very interesting, and the food supply will certainly be.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Minister Jože Podgoršek asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Allow me to have some thoughts on what I've heard. In opening, I would like to point out that in no way do we mention in law or in any explanation that the municipalities are agrarian-inhibitors. Far from it. All we're talking about is that they're unnatural members of agrarian communities. Historically, centuries old agrarian communities have been owned, as I said in the beginning, by individual households. Not in the name of the owner, but in the home. The current owner was just, what can I say, the manager of the share that the homeowner had. The municipalities, as well as the country, have become owners of agrarian communities only in Slovenia alone in the process of denationalisation. If the denationalisation process were to take place, the property should be returned to the household, not to the current owner, who, after World War II, was seized. As I said in the introduction, this represented a significant share of the co-ownership shares themselves. In some cases, however, when inheritance no longer had an inheritance, it was passed on to the congregations, in our view in some cases even illegally to the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. to the State. The country owns very few agrarian communities, and they are congregations. Then we also have a problem with certain measures of the common agricultural policy, possibly also with investments by certain agrarian communities that cannot obtain support if the state is co-owner, such as forest roads and so on. Therefore, we believe that some changes need to be made if we really want to maintain agrarian communities to work. One is for the decision itself when we give greater authority to the President and the other to the exclusion. Okay, in the country, it's automaticism, in the municipalities, if the municipalities decide to do so, it's a mechanism to eliminate these unnatural, not harmful, not inhibitors, but unnatural members in the agrarian community. When we go to see our Slovenia, I would hope to say that there are such agrarian communities where we are talking about co-management of ownership, some to the refugees of Slovenian and European space. As Minister myself, I have had the opportunity to accompany some agrarian communities, and I am also grateful for these visits to them, to understand at all what group co-management means. This collective co-management of ownership is probably one of the biggest guarantees that agrarian communities will never privatise, but will forever remain group management of the co-ownership. The Agrarian Community Act does not eliminate everything in common, but stresses that agrarian communities are aggregates, not individualists, but gatherings. We are not talking about dividing the property of agrarian communities, as we had before in the second marriage, by dividing the property. It's about completely different content in comas and so on. In agrarian communities, we speak of maintaining this status of the community. No one even thinks about eliminating this uniqueness of theirs, which we have in the Slovenian space. Why is it so important? Because through its way of action, it allows for the preservation of the landscape where a particular owner would probably simply raise his hands. We would grow and perhaps some part of Slovenia would look significantly different today. We'd have more infested surfaces. Agrarian communities, when we go to the field, invest precisely in this group property. They work forest paths, regulate group mountain pastures and so on, owned by an agrarian community, in order to preserve this part. Don't worry, private people don't have much interest in becoming absolute owners of these agrarian communities, because historically, agrarian communities have particularly less quality agricultural land, less quality land. Even if we go to see Slovenia and these agrarian communities, we quickly find that these lands are really worse and that these poorer lands then went to some agrarian communities centuries ago. In the debate, I heard in one part that we are reducing the quorum in decision-making at the general assembly. The reduction of the quorum is also important in order to enable the general assembly to adopt a basic act. Agrarian communities warn us that it is precisely because of this co-ownership that there are many problems in the general assemblies to gather the required quorum needed for the basic act, which is a condition for registration. We kind of force agrarian communities to register by law, and with a high quorum, we make it impossible for them. If we want to encourage agrarian communities to register under this new law, then we have to help them in that work too, I will not say fix the problem, the mistake that has been made in denationalisation, but allow them to still function normally. Let me also define myself to the amendments. We believe that the law is adequate to allow for the possibility, however, of transferring the property of the State to members, that it is an appropriate measure. We even believe that there has been a strange transfer of this property to the country, and we are only giving the municipalities this opportunity. No one forces the municipalities out of the agrarian community, but we give them the opportunity to do so if they decide to do so. From the same address, we also propose that the transfer of inheritance without an heir should not be transferred to the congregation, but be transferred to the other members. And let me add, we're afraid that members of the agrarian communities will get property for free. Yes, even in this case, if the property of an heirless inheritance goes to the congregation, it goes also free of charge to the congregation. We're talking about essentially the same way, the same mechanism. We therefore believe that this does answer the key questions raised by the agrarian community for several years. So I really ask you not to believe me, not to support the law for the minister, but to support this law for the agrarian communities and its members. For several years we have also fought with some other departments, and I am also grateful to the Ministry of Finance and others that we have found some solutions with which agrarian communities, such as these, can also work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 16 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on environmental protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. You have before you a proposal for a new law on environmental protection. This is an extremely important fundamental system law in the field of environmental protection. The need for a new marriage is more plastic. First time. Slovenia needs a new modern law on environmental protection that follows modern trends in many areas governed by the law, especially in the field of waste and its management. The existing law has also been supplemented several times and is becoming imprecise. The new law also eliminates many reported violations and takes over in fact into the Slovenian legal order of directives that should have been done in the past. The law covers all parts of the environment: air, water, nature conservation, climate change and introduces instruments in the field of environmental protection, such as planning, environmental impact assessments, permits and financial instruments. The Environmental Protection Act lays down fundamental principles and approaches for all environmental legislation and provides the basis for sub-legislative acts for specific areas adopted by the Government or the competent minister. By means of a proposal for a law, the State makes several European provisions, including the principles of the circular economy, the polluter pays the polluter principle and the principles of the producer's extended liability in the field of products and waste. The proposed law deals primarily with the new comprehensive area of waste management, including the establishment of basic rules on waste management, the conditions and criteria for the cessation of waste status and the regulation of the producer's extended liability system. The key purpose of the proposed Environmental Protection Act is to encourage the reduction of the amount of waste produced and to establish an effective transparent and cost-effective waste management system. The producer's extended liability system must be introduced due to the transposition of the amended Waste Directive and, due to the inefficient system in Slovenia, in particular through waste packaging, which has so far required a number of interventions by the State and, last but not least, a lot of resources from the State budget, although this is the task of those who give or produce waste. The proposed law will lay new and sound foundations for an efficient, transparent and cost-effective system of producer-wide responsibilities, including waste packaging. For this purpose, for each mass flow of waste, it will designate only one non-profit organisation to seek out the best bidders on behalf of producers. They will then process waste generated as a result of placing products on the market. One organisation for a single mass flow is an appropriate and correct solution, as well as good practices in many foreign countries, as well as three existing mass flows in our country, where we already have only one organisation. Already, we have only one organisation in the field of waste tyres, used vehicles and waste plant protection products, which has always done its duty correctly, which has not caused any complications. In addition to the introduction of the producer's extended liability system, which is the central purpose of the environmental law, it also brings a number of other innovations. Among other things, it lays down measures to prevent or reduce waste generation; it encourages the reduction of the harmful effects of waste. The law also implements provisions to reduce the overall impact of resource use and to improve the efficiency of such use, which is essential for the transition to the circular economy. The novelty of the law also includes a new regime of action in the event of excessive environmental burdens due to the derogation from the rules of procedure. This is the case, for example, with the disposal of municipal mud in water protection areas, and regulation will take place according to the system in place in the event of an environmental accident. A number of new developments are listed, and the environmental impact assessment procedure has also been reorganized. I ask and propose that the National Assembly, at the end of its consideration, adopt a decision to hold a third debate on the proposal for a law at the same meeting, because we are late for a number of transposition needs, so it is very important that the law is adopted in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at the first meeting of the 54th urgent session. 2. 2022 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on environmental protection. In the introductory explanation, the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Area shall be acting on behalf of the applicant. Andrej Vizjak stressed that Slovenia needs a new, modern law in the field of environmental protection because the existing law has become opaque due to multiple additions and changes. The proposal for a law establishes fundamental principles and approaches in all environmental legislation and lays the groundwork for sub-legislative acts. By means of a proposal for a law, the State brings more European provisions and introduces the circular economy principle, the polluter principle pays and the producer principle of extended liability. The proposal for a law entirely new and comprehensively covers the field of waste management, including the establishment of basic rules on waste management, the conditions and criteria for the cessation of waste status and the implementation of the PRO system. One of the key objectives is to encourage the reduction of waste production and the establishment of a transparent, efficient and cost-effective waste management system. The proposal also lays down measures to reduce waste generation, promote the reduction of the harmful effects of waste generated and introduce provisions to reduce the overall impact of resource users. The regulation of the environmental impact assessment and the issue of environmental permits has also been revised, and it also specifies the role of the legislator and the public in the process. The representative of the Law-Legal Service Špela Macek Gustin presented their extensive written opinion. Finally, it concluded that the comments raised were largely taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. As regards the other comments, the applicant provided additional clarifications in writing. An important part of the debate was the proposals of the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members for a new sub-chapter which would specify the responsibility to prevent and remedy environmental damage or to remedy in the past of the polluted area. The amendment proposal stressed that they were prepared in accordance with the EU's 2030 guidelines and requirements in order to identify and maintain a register of contaminated soil areas, assess the risk and, in the event of unacceptable risks, ensure soil recovery under national legislation. In this regard, the Minister for Environment and Space stressed that the rehabilitation of degraded areas in Slovenia has been ongoing and is also within the mandate of the current government. On the proposals of the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, he considered that they were unnecessary, as the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 49 was already followed by comments relating to the old burdens and their recovery. Some examples of old burdens are regulated already in chapter 8 of the proposal for a law regulating liability for the prevention and recovery of environmental damage. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general discussion at its 29th meeting on the proposal for a law, the views of the parliamentary groups are not possible. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 March 2022 and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate article 18 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he does. I'm asking you to sign up. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We have tabled an extremely important amendment in Levica. This battle to equalize values for co-incineration and incineration of waste has been going on for some time. In Levica, we have tried many things to protect the constitutional right of people living there to a healthy living environment. This battle isn't just like that. Kind of reminds me of this very long fracking battle. Five marriages, if you remember. Now, at the end of our term, we have united positions around fracking, and I hope that they can be here as well. This marriage, as it were said, is not bad. For the last time, we have said that there are many good solutions, but of course there are fundamental shortcomings. Now is a unique opportunity to address these shortcomings. It's an extremely pressing problem. An extremely burning health problem, as we know, so keen that even doctors were organized. We know we had a special session. In Levika we called this urgent session precisely because doctors warned about the very serious health problems people living in the Soča valley have due to the Salonit Anhovo cement plant. This was once asbestososis, and emissions of co-incineration emissions are now joining. What's this all about? The point is that the cement plant in Anhove, as a secondary activity, is carrying out co-incineration. But the result of this co-incineration of the cement plant in Anhovem is that they eventually incinerate several times more waste than in the largest standard waste incineration plant Celje. This also releases larger releases of carcinogens and other harmful substances into the environment. Let me illustrate. It's about 109 thousand tons of waste a year. In Salonit Anhovo, they even wanted to increase this amount and even applied for a total of 135 tons. But then they kind of caved in under pressure from the public, and one day they withdrew that application. In Levica, we want to bring this amendment to the conclusion that the limitation of co-incineration is finally limited and thus protects the environment and human health, as I said in the introduction, to safeguard the constitutional right to a healthy living environment. What's the problem? The problem is that the current regulation applicable to co-incineration plants lays down less favourable conditions than those applicable to incineration plants. It therefore gives priority to the needs of pollutants against environmental protection and consequently to the health of the local population living there. The interests of industry therefore result in some unequal treatment of the local population in the vicinity of the largest present and potential future pollutants. Residents and residents living near co-incineration plants are exposed to dangerous discharges inappropriately more than those near incinerators, as I said. In Cele, for example, people are less exposed to these influences than in Anhove, so that, as we say, Anhovo, if we look at it, is owned by Italians and Austrians and a huge amount of this waste is imported even from Italy and Austria, and then our people suffer and get sick of really severe forms of cancer. We have been working with civil initiatives in the field of environmental protection for a long time in Levika, and in fact we have been trying in various ways to achieve a limit on waste incineration in Anhove in this mandate. In the National Assembly, for example, some time ago, we reached conclusions, which we actually adopted on a committee that ordered the government to equalise the emission limits of hazardous waste in co-incineration plants with those incinerators. But neither did the previous one, nor does the current government have a hearing about the needs of the inhabitants, so you won't say that I'm criticizing only the current government. No, as far as the subject is concerned, we're critical all the time. Even when we were even in partnership with the previous government, we were critical, so not to take it as if it were an attack on this government now. No, but it is our insistence that this matter should be settled. But these aren't just some needs. People out there are really sick of severe cancers. This law on environmental protection is now, let's say, a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be really good, so that this thing, whether it breaks up or makes up for this manka, and finally, Minister, you sign up for history as that minister, who has listened to people before the interests of the owners of Salonita Anhovo. Like I said, just in case. It's been about 100 years since there's been a Salonite Anhovo in the Desks near the Sochi Canal, and 100 years people have been there somehow suffering the consequences of this industry. First of all, cement production was mainly due to asbestos use, the factor causing many diseases, including mesothelioma and lung cancer. It's the story of that cement plant. Now he's joined the co-incineration. And let me give you just a little bit of information so you can understand why people should really listen there. Between 1998 and 2016, the main part of asbestos diseases in Slovenia affected the area I am talking about. Out of a total of 559 cases, asbestos is more than 500 patients from this area. Can you imagine? 559 in Slovenia and 500 in this area. Also a thousand 773 out of a thousand 866 pleoral plaques. Of the 189 mesotheliomas, 128 are from this area. These are horrendous numbers and horrendous diseases. These are practically diseases that are fatal. It's practically a death sentence if you get sick of something like that. Pulmonary cancer, 65 out of a total of 74. I'm not going to list everything because they're really cruel statistics. It is no coincidence that even doctors and warners have called on us, MPs and Members, but let us do something for the people there. Something small, when we gave them the water line a while ago, we did it, but that's not enough. We are talking here about the release of carcinogen emissions caused by co-incineration. For example, in 2001 the inhabitants of the Soča Valley made a clear statement in the referendum against co-incineration of waste in the Salonit Anhovo cement plant. Even at the referendum. However, Salonit Anhovo obtained IPPC environmental authorisation for co-incineration in 2007, which was then supplemented in 2013, 2014, 2018 and 2019. As it is said, the cement plant currently has a permit to incinerate 108 000 960 tonnes of waste annually, including 15 000 560 tonnes of hazardous waste or on average almost 300 tonnes of waste per day. 300 tons of waste a day. By incinerating 89 different types of waste, including hazardous ones such as hydraulic oils, insulation and heat transfer oils and so on. The use of waste as alternative fuels has increased sharply, reaching 60% of the energy needed for furnace operation in 2013, the other 40% represents petrolcox, which is a by-product of oil refinery and is one of the most dirty fossil fuels, which is also controversial. Especially now that we are fighting climate change and of course we know what fossil fuels mean. The problem with waste co-incineration plants in Slovenia is that the quantities of toxic substances that can be released into the air are disproportionately higher than those for conventional waste incineration plants. That's the key problem. And this key problem we'd like to solve. That's why our amendment is supposed to solve this situation. With this amendment, we want to prevent the Government from setting higher limit values for emissions of substances into the air from waste co-incineration plants than for emissions of substances into the air from waste incineration plants. This is the key purpose and I am really asking you to listen, because in the final stage it is our people, the local people who are really suffering from this pollution there. I've specifically told you what diseases they're suffering from. It's not some innocent thing. These are very serious things. So I appeal to you, at the hearing, to make this marriage extremely good. He'll have some other flaws too, but let's leave them at the side now. Not the shortcomings, but the things that are missing that I have mentioned the last time, and I will not, today, because we are talking specifically about these amendments. In fact, this law could have been quite good if you also took into account matters of vital importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you, too. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Unlike my colleague, I don't think this marriage can be any better with any amendment. In Mladina, Mr Dušan Pichler, a longtime ILO employee, described, and I will not update you at all, because the letter is accessible to everyone who mentions all these errors that were not present. And the last sentence is: “It is not possible to introduce a number of other errors, shortcomings and nonconsistencies of the proposed law in this place. I doubt, however, that they can be eliminated by amendments." Why? Because the minister was the first to do what he did, he allowed the total discreditation of the Ministry of Environment and Space, of all employees. We have come to the conclusion that the pyramid has narrowed down so much that we need one minister and one external contractor, who is then working through some rich contracts. When it finds that 150 amendments are withdrawn, despite the fact that the contract states that its work is also legal support for the adoption of the CSO-2 in the legislative process, it is said within the Government and within the National Assembly. Then let go, do the work, cash out, and so do external contractors. Then some of the annexes from the state budget receive additional contracts – I will not even mention the numbers that I have mentioned several times – which is totally unacceptable. Then what do we have the ministries and all the infrastructure in these ministries, if it's enough for the minister to hire his friend, who then the lobbyists give him instructions on how to do it? If I move away from this letter from Mr Pickler to some comments. I object to external contractors working on legislation. Then why do we need these huge mastodons that we support? This marriage is flawed, and it is bad. That is why we have also seen a broad view of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has cited a number of legal and even constitutional shortcomings. Then here we faced the fight with the amendments. The law has 150 amendments, and it would be better if the gentleman returned the money and wrote a new law that was consistent. A lot of the proposed law does not solve or refer to them very superficially, such as bankruptcy, old burdens, integration of procedures and so on. Many amendments, as I mentioned earlier, were adopted on this committee and were over 150, which means that almost every other article of this proposed law has been amended. That is why we now have risks here for the actual harmonisation of the law itself and are questioning its feasibility. The complementary proposal of the ZVO-2 contains a series of wrong and problematic solutions, but I will not list them because there are actually many. Some articles are non-systematic, inconsistent with the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, expressions are not written in alphabetical order, and this makes reading and thus the application of the law difficult. When we open a marriage, we always have an explanation as to why the needs of this marriage are and then you take a tax ruling that the marriage is transparent. With regard to waste management, I must draw attention to the direct violation of European legislation in the field of waste management and also to the non-systemic regulation of the management of mining waste in Article 22. I'm not gonna count it all. That's a lot. My personal opinion is that the law should be rewritten. Article 65 should be thoroughly reviewed from the point of view of insolvency proceedings, including as regards the financial liability of the management and the supervisory authority of the company which may have gone bankrupt. The assessment of environmental impacts is in part contrary to the directive, which provides for procedures to be carried out for those public and private projects, which I would probably like to stress, have a significant impact on the environment, but not where significant adverse environmental impacts are expected. The exemption provided for in Article 116, paragraph 5, concerning the Directive shall not be admissible at all. With regard to environmental damage - for its inclusion in the law we would really need an in-depth analysis of the arrangements in the Member States. The law also usually has a comparison of how it is in other Member States of the European Union. They would need this analysis of the arrangements when they decided to do so in the insurance market in the European Union, the possibility of obtaining such insurance in the Republic of Slovenia and so on. Not to mention everything I have found here, the result of the established regime will be that any legal or natural person exercising any of the activities referred to in the second paragraph of this Article will have to be insured. Such entities are likely to be thousands in need of such insurance. Nor did the applicant carry out an analysis of the situation in which he could identify who should have done so. It is also unclear how Slovenian insurance companies will implement such an arrangement, whether they have developed insurance products to prevent and remedy environmental damage. No less problematic is the determination of the level of compulsory insurance, which depends on annual income, rather than on the risk that an entity carries on an activity, to the environment. So if you make a lot of money, you pay more than the one that pollutes more. It doesn't make any sense. Here is the definition of environmental damage contrary to the definitions of the Directive. But what always surprises me with Minister Visiak is that we get to the water. I think he's very thirsty for this water and the confusion is even more obvious. Whether this mess is intentional or not, I won't judge. But if we reach the supply of drinking water to the population, this is the first point of Article 233, paragraph 1, of the Law, the content of which is not that of the public service of environmental protection, because it does not really have anything to do with environmental protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for reaching out to you, but we always allow a little wider debate at the first amendment. But the amendment under discussion is about emissions and not about water. I respectfully ask you to focus a little bit on this content. Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Your Honor, if you can give us some time back, because while you were talking, we're running out of time for the next amendment to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	I'll take your proposal into account. Please return your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u130	Can I just finish the debate, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u132	I'm just talking a little bit more and I'm touching the water because I think it's very important. Apparently, this law also seeks to address problems related to the constitutional provision on the right to drinking water. And you're going to let me do that because I think it's very important. The provision of drinking water directly and in a non-profit manner means that each municipality should establish its own establishment within the municipality. These proposed solutions are unusual, inappropriate, impractical. Under the transitional provisions, the transition to a new drinking water supply system is not even regulated. In short, according to our amendments on incinerators, to come back, waste is a very profitable thing and a very dangerous thing. I'm going to tie myself up here because my colleague has already talked a lot about co-incineration plants, including biogas. In this law, I see nowhere to solve as much environmental damage as biogas waste, which is then released into the soil as fertilizer and threatened by human life and health. Not to say that we have already had a meeting of the Committee on the Environment here, and we have addressed the endemite of a black human fish that is dying out because of such practices. So everything we release into the air, into the environment, or underground, eventually comes into the human body and has serious consequences for human health. That is why it is so important that we are as careful as possible with such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you, too. I'm asking you to add the time we took from them so they won't be deprived. We'll give you 30 seconds. The word is from a government representative, Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u134	Your Honor, Vice President, thank you very much. It was very interesting to hear both Members of the same Group. I am very happy, Mrs Sukič, for your position on the law in general and also calls for the adoption of this amendment, although I must say that this is a professional issue and nothing political. The emission limit values shall be determined in accordance with the technology for installations, in accordance with best practices. Here Slovenia is following the most developed countries of the European Union, especially Germany. Our economy must compete in the European market, including the global market, and it is right that we are, as far as the limits are concerned, when we talk about emissions into the environment, by the most developed countries of the European Union, which Germany certainly is. It is therefore very difficult to establish politically in a law of limit value. This is left to the law because these limits are ultimately changing and improving for the benefit of the environment and human health. Today, there can be one limit value for one parameter, but if there are some better practices, technologies, guidelines, it can be higher tomorrow. They can also be problematic at some point in time because they can apply stricter guidelines for co-incinerators than are applied to incinerators, because this is already the case today. In a series of parameters, co-incineration plants are subject to stricter limit values than incinerators. For example, heavy metals, which are, for example, extremely problematic, are now much stricter. I would therefore ask you to let these limits be determined by the professions so that the political paragraphs in this article do not define this equation, because I think that we will not benefit the environment and health and the lives of people, nature and the environment, but that we can make one unnecessary bureaucratic burden. I underline once again that this is a professional question. This is a technical issue, a health issue and also a question of other professions dealing with it because it is a very interdisciplinary area. I have to correct you, but Parliament has not ordered the government to equalise these standards, but has ordered the government to study it. To this end, a working group had two sub-groups: one sub-group on technical issues and another sub-group on the health aspect of equivalence. The technical subgroup has completed its work and has not supported this proposed equation, because, as I said, it is also a professional issue, not least a dynamic process in terms of environmental protection. It is said that standards are sharpened according to the knowledge of the profession for certain devices and to a certain extent. I would follow what other countries are doing in this area, so we do not support this amendment in terms of the priorities of equivalence, irrespective of the parameter we are talking about. It may also be that, if the parameters are sharpened, such an operator operating this device must adjust the behaviour over a certain period and, following an official duty, impose an amendment to the OVD in order to adapt to new limit values. This is a professional dynamic process that is always in the direction of improving standards and protecting the environment. I fully assure you that people in the area of Anhove in the past have been exposed to very heavy burdens due to the use of asbestos and that the health situation is devastating precisely because of this. To speak and make some correlations between an existing legal entity that operates and uses non-hazardous waste incineration for its production, with a health condition, has no professional basis. No grounds. But it is true that people with their health are paying the burdens of the past when asbestos has been processed there today, and this has caused serious negative consequences over a longer period of time. It is right that we banned asbestos a long time ago, a few decades ago, and it is right to root it out of use where it still exists. But once again, I don't think it's right to point out and point our finger at a functioning object in this valley, which, I think, and also after assessing all the measurements that are being made there, is not correlated with the health condition that you are exposing and, in fact, is repeatedly exposed by doctors. We're going to do everything we can to monitor the releases, and finally we're going to do it with mobile measuring laboratories and devices. As far as I know, that's what the congregation does. It is right to monitor emissions from this facility and emissions permanently in the environment and to do everything we can to ensure that people are not exposed to any excessive pollution today because they have suffered enough. Just so, with some paragraph in the article starting “no matter what the provisions of this Article are, ” this paragraph could go to any article, since, whatever the provisions of this Article, we continue to regulate something, right? [[…]] Your Honour, I respect your positive purpose and desire, but I would like to say that such provisions are governed by technical, professional and not by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing it's an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I was almost sure we'd been checked in. We are talking about a very important environmental issue, namely incineration or co-incineration of waste. At the outset, I think it is necessary to clarify what is the key problem, which is also the amendment that we are talking about, in the Left Group we want to address and address. When we talk about waste incineration, it takes place in Slovenia in two ways: it can be used in incineration plants, which are primarily built, made and formed for this purpose, and in co-incineration plants, which do otherwise, but also incinerate waste, either because it is worth it or because the waste is energy for another activity. What effect waste incineration has on both sides or on what effect these limit values allow, but things are set here differently. In the case of incinerators, in the case of incinerators themselves and exclusively incinerators, the limit value of what they can blow up is significantly lower than in plants that co-incinerate or incinerate waste as a side activity of something else. It means they do the same thing, but they can blow up one more, the other less, excuse the expression, the shit. What we are trying to do in the Left Group with an amendment is to eliminate this inequality, especially in the case of co-incineration where they are allowed, according to their own words, more to regulate more. I do not agree, Minister, with you that there is still a need to give a voice here, because we are talking mainly about the Anhoves - because we know that we have dealt with this problem relatively, and there is no other such major problem with Anhove. But the profession's already here. One year ago, the Slovenian public spoke, I think, 314 – or some crazy number – to doctors who said: “The catastrophic health situation of the residents and residents of Anhovem is directly linked to the co-incineration of hazardous waste.” And these aren't just some doctors who don't know where they came from. We are talking about doctors from the Department of Pulmonary Diseases in the UKC and about the Centre for Clinical Toxicology and Pharmacology about the Pediatric Clinic UKC Ljubljana and in the Desks local doctors the head of the Clinical Institute for Medicine, Transport and Sports Dr. Method Dodič Fikfak NIJZ and so on. 314, so to speak, from the topmost edge of the Slovenian medical profession. The question is very important, believe me, if not otherwise, because I come from the Rippers and this problem is not a year old. It's a drag problem. The problem of co-incineration and emissions is a problem that has been dragging for decades. In Trbovje and in Zasavje, we fought such a polluter for 15 years as activists, that we had at least some approximate success. This type of environmental impact, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not only environmental. Not only do we have a little less air, but we have a little less greenery. And it's not just health. We are talking about an integrated negative impact on the region. As a result, okay, the environment and health that are most important here. What about the economy and the Soča Valley, especially tourism? The thing pulls the whole chain behind it, it's not uniform. Here we can see simply black in white only pingpong between interests: either the interest of human health and the environment or the interest of companies dealing with co-incineration, in the greatest cases of multinationals, who traditionally put their profits ahead of the health of the environment and people. This is the decision that we are making today: whether we leave the limits as they are, or whether we try to make them with the amendment that we propose in the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u138	I have maybe one explanation to make it clear. You know, emissions in the case of co-incinerators, in this case cement plants, are for certain parameters, not because of co-incineration, but because of cement as such because it comes from their cement technology. When you speak of an equation, if, say, Salonit Anhovo no longer burns non-hazardous waste, its limit values will still be high because they come from the technology of this particular production. If you understand what you said in the beginning, we have an incinerator and a co-incinerator, and now we have one bigger than the other. No, it's not. We have this bigger because there's some other technology going on there that's connected to cement production. At significantly higher temperatures and for a large number of parameters, the limit values for co-incineration plants are lower due to technology because combustion is significantly higher at temperature than in conventional incineration plants. Therefore, only some parameters in the co-incineration plant, in this case cement, which also originate from the primary energy, not waste, are different. So in any case, we are not comparing the same and therefore we cannot even the limits. This is a matter of expertise and a specific case, and therefore, in the Regulation and also in these so-called BAT Guidelines or Best Available Technology Guidelines, it is indicated for each device or for each type individually because it originates from technology, and this is indeed an expert issue related to combustion related to technology itself. Please, there's really no place for us to put this into marriage. But until now we have regulated this by means of sub-legal acts, and I believe that this is the only right thing to do, because it is also easier to adapt and raise the standard of environmental protection as if we are then correcting and supplementing the law for every change.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Please also allow me to discuss this first point a little bit more at the beginning and I will not just be limited to the amendment. A healthy and clean environment is a SAB party's programme priority and it seems very important to us that civil society was involved in the formation of this law and that an agreement has also been reached with civil society, as these representatives in the National Assembly have also said. We must be aware that we have only one environment and that a healthy and clean environment is our geostrategic advantage. This law addresses a number of areas, it is very complex, it is substantively demanding, and it seems important to us in this law in the area of waste management. In this light, it is very important for us to finally address the problems of unabsorbed municipal waste and to establish a single public service that will keep an eye on it and introduce a bailout system to deal with this packaging. We must be aware that the risks in the environment are different, that they are a complex problem and that this law in this mother, who is here before us, has addressed certain challenges that have been present in Slovenia for many years and have not been solved in this regard. In this respect, waste management is one of the key issues. If we know that in countries where the deposit system is introduced, the amount of waste returned is reduced by as much as 90%, this matter seems very important to us and is in fact in line with all our efforts. Remember, at the initiative of the party SAB, we have adopted a law prohibiting the placing on the market of some of the most commonly used products for single use from plastic. These include plastic cups, containers, food storage packaging and the like, including straws. This is very important for us because we are aware that plastic passes through the water cycle as well as the food chain into man. She was also seen in the baby cot, so this seems to be a very important and also a very good and quality solution. Another important solution that we think is important and for which we have also made an amendment and was adopted in one other form is the introduction of the bail system. The deadline is set when the deposit system for handling the packaging will be introduced. This also seems very important to us in this light. However, the third thing that seems important to us in this light is that waste management is carried out through a public non-profit service. This must be a non-profit organisation and this law follows this objective. It is true that this law has been amended, in this sense the articles are complex, but we must be aware that they are essentially the wastes and raw materials that this law refers to, and it seems very important to us because it follows our objectives, including the achievement of environmental objectives. We know that raw materials are running out, especially in the light of the war that is now taking place. Pushing the path towards the development of the circular economy is a very important priority for us. This law in this light refers to the reduction in waste generation and, of course, we welcome it. We stress that we will not oppose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 84 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 106 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 112 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 113 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 126 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 130 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 183 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna be a little short. What's this about our amendment? The fact is that Slovenia has to start abandoning environmentally harmful subsidies. In the framework of the OECD, the State has committed itself to eliminating fossil fuel subsidies by 2020. The abandonment of harmful subsidies is also included as a measure in the Republic of Slovenia's comprehensive National Energy and Climate Plan, which was adopted in early 2020. According to the 2020 Climate Mirror, which monitors Slovenia's progress in achieving emission reduction targets, environmentally harmful subsidies are also problematic due to the impact on the costs of achieving climate targets. Measures contrary to the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets have a significant impact on public financial expenditure in particular in the long term, as the damage resulting from climate change is increasing and will mainly burden the budget and/or reduce the inflows. In view of the incentives that are contrary to the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas missions, additional measures are needed which are generally more expensive - so it is written there. Incentives, which run counter to environmental objectives, are also a very wrong development signal to the industry, as they are already promoting too slow to adapt to climate change over the medium term and thus, in the future, when missions need to be reduced significantly more than today, condemning in essence the failure to compete with the adaptable industry. We're running out of time. We know there's a climate breach at the door. This breakthrough is supposed to be there somewhere in 2030. And encouraging industry to adapt too slowly to these climate changes is a false signal. Therefore, the introduction of a new, environmentally harmful, subsidy provided for in this Act is controversial in particular in the light of the last annual IPCC report, which gives governments a very clear message, not only to all governments, but not only to ours, that in order to prevent climate chaos, it is urgent to approach radical change in all areas, as well as the envisaged new EU measures or the introduction of a new ETS scheme for transport and buildings that will bring additional costs to consumers for heating, cooling buildings and mobility. In this context, the introduction of a new incentive is also not in line with the principles of a fair transition. We must strive for a just transition and there is also a discrepancy with these principles. On the one hand, additional incentives are being given to the largest polluters to do business as smoothly as possible and additional cost burdens are being announced to the population due to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We now see this discrimination, so the possibility of covering indirect costs due to the costs of greenhouse gas emissions under this Act should be deleted. And that's the essence of our amendment. I am asking you to understand that we are really getting as close to this law as possible to some common goals, after all, European objectives, not just our own or global goals, I can say. The moment is that he calls for action and we can no longer move or somehow get there after the curves. We need to find a short way to reach these goals, not as long as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you, too. The word is from a government representative. Minister Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Vice President. I fully agree with you, Your Honor. I am also personally against environmentally harmful subsidies, in particular subsidies to the largest contaminants, which would in fact prevent these subsidies from adapting to climate change. I'm adamant against it, too. But this article and your amendments have nothing to do with it. I'll explain why. We already have a possible measure to cover indirect costs. That's what I'm talking about, not a subsidy. That's what the current law stipulates. With the current law on environmental protection, we limit this to 25% of the revenue of the Climate Fund and determine the purpose of these funds, which has not been done so far. In short, we allow indirect costs to be covered, we limit it now to 25%, which is new, and we determine the purpose of this money. What are indirect costs, and what does it mean to cover indirect costs? Certain energy-intensive companies such as Talum, Impol, the Slovenian steel industry consume a lot of electricity in their production, because it is such production. Aluminium processing without electricity cannot, however, operate without electricity. Because these companies need a lot of electricity and because electricity production is also subject to CO2 loads, which, by the way, third countries do not know, say, one production of aluminium in China, India, Serbia or steel or anything else does not know the CO2 load of electricity, so that we can make these companies a competitive position on the global and Slovenian European market, we allow these companies to get back what they paid for CO2 coupons for electricity, if we understand. This is a cover for indirect costs. It's not a subsidy. This is a cover for those costs that their global competitors do not have. This is what the European Union has done to ensure that this industry does not escape to third countries where CO2 will not be subject to coupons and the environment will be equally burdened. And what did we do? We've lost some industry, the environment will be equally burdened. And to avoid that, the European Union is allowing so-called indirect costs to be covered, and so are we, that we do not lose some of the important industry in our country. But what are we doing with this law? This law limits the money these companies can get to cover indirect costs and introduces dedicatedness. These funds are, in the sixth paragraph of which you propose to delete, those funds are intended for direct or indirect investments to reduce the process emissions of greenhouse gases and other emissions of pollutants, energy efficiency or energy self-sustainment. The use of funds shall be monitored for the entire period of validity of the scheme and shall be specified in more detail in the sub-legislative act. These funds, in fact, are intended for exactly what you say they are not. They're meant for, and it's in paragraph six. I ask you to understand that the Slovenian economy needs to adapt to climate change or these high standards of environmental protection, and this is not the way to close them today. We need to give them time and money to adapt to keep jobs, to maintain gross domestic product and to finance subsystems and to become sustainable or environmentally friendly. This is the purpose of these provisions. I'm asking you not to insist on deleting this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-15-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 224 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Since the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia and specifically Article 243 are substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 307, we will discuss the amendments together. I am putting to the debate Articles 243 and 307 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 246 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 247 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 259 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 260 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 262 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 264 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 265 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Since the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members to Article 274 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 275 and Article 312, we will discuss the amendments to this Article together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 274, 275 and 212, as well as the amendments of the LMŠ, SD and unrelated Members and the two amendments of the SDS, NSI and More specifically. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 277 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 297 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 302 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, 16 March 2022, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 30th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
