ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 99th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Tadeja Šuštar Zalar from 16.30 to 19.30, mag. Dejan Židan, Marjan Šarec, Lidija Dijak Mirnik from beginning to 18.30, Aljaž Kovačič from beginning to 11, Yuri Lebe from 17th, Janja Slug to 15.45, Aleksander Reberšek to 14th hours, Mojca Kociper from 9th to 13th hours, mag. Andrej Reich from 9 a.m. to 16 p.m., Marko Bandelli from 17 p.m. on, Vojko Starović, mag. Branislav Rajić, mag. Alenka Bratušek and Igor Peček until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law governing the position of students within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the 38th Chamber of Members and Members with the first signed Igor Zorčič. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We are separated by just one more step towards a legally well-ordered substantial improvement in the situation of young people, these are those who have decided on a study path that will be intellectuals, experts, managers and will make a decisive contribution to the future of Slovenia as we wish and deserve. The first step towards this goal is, therefore, the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students. This law fully responds to the needs of the student population, which is one of the most vulnerable social groups and which have been particularly affected by the coronal outbreak of the virus and previously by the economic crisis. The categorical statements that we hear in this past reference to how politics cares about students and how efforts to improve their situation are repeatedly made as some empty promise. In fact, since the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students was adopted in 2017, which is also somewhat weak and obsolete in this area has not happened in practice. So today we have the opportunity and the obligation to maintain the interest of young people in studying so that we do not make studies as difficult as the circumstances, economic crisis and crown of the viral pandemic have made them difficult. So today is an opportunity for us to adopt a bill on the regulation of the situation of students, which was introduced into the legal procedure already last July, and due to other laws he had to wait for such a late hearing. Since this is the third reading, I will only mention the essential elements or improvements brought by this proposal of the law. These were designed together with representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, who are also the main initiators and authors of the law under consideration today. So the proposal came from the bottom up and the following logic Nothing about students without students. As key solutions, the law provides for an increase in state scholarships by 20% with a transitional period of up to 2024. Excluding student work income and staff scholarships up to the minimum wage from the calculation of entitlement to social transfers. By doing so, students or their families will no longer be penalized for their work as students. Furthermore, the amount of student food subsidies rises to 3.5 euros. Savings measures introduced more than a decade ago by the so-called ZUJF is still in place, and raw materials are being auctioned and will continue to be auctioned in the future due to all the world conditions, which is reflected in the annual increase in student food allowance, and in recent times more bidders have also decided to cancel contracts on the basis of which students are offered student food. The law also extends the daily use interval of the subsidised diet from 7 to 22 hours, thus allowing more flexible use of this right. In addition, the amount of dedicated funds for the construction of student homes by the State is increasing, and this is also a very important item that will enable students to have easier access to studies. Introduces the so-called ‘studies’. digital student card, limited administrative costs when enrolled in studies so far [[sign for the end of the debate]] disproportionately burdened students. These costs have grown unrestrainedly. Further addressing students with special needs and talented young people more comprehensively and ensuring their equal treatment. In short, there are many reasons why the student population needs a new district law. But we do have a situation where there are no more reasons for today [[sign for the end of the debate]] This law, in the context of which only one nomotechnical amendment has been tabled, would not be supported in a uniform manner. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we have all recognized the opportunity and responsibility to address the student issue and to confirm this in today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u3	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Mitja Slavinc, to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members. At the outset, the Government had pointed out certain features of the law which had affected a number of others, which was not the most in line with practice and, of course, also made certain comments at the time. In the legislative procedure, however, all these comments were more or less eliminated with amendments and, of course, the government does not now oppose, on the contrary, support this law. And we recommend you support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bratušek will introduce Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u6	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Today we have a third review of the Student Law. The original law governing the situation of students was adopted in the same way as before. Despite the broad consensus, however, it was obvious that it was not systematic and that by interfering with many system laws in a similar way as the ULJF created legal uncertainty. At the second reading of the law, we warned in the Sab Group that we had witnessed almost identical concerns this time, and we also pointed out that we were sharing them. However, we reiterate that, in view of all the PKP combinations we have witnessed in this mandate, we do not consider these derogations to be so important as to require the rejection of a law which, by the way, brings a number of positive changes to which students ask and want them. The law is only intended for students like his predecessor, which we welcome, but at the same time we warn that young people should also be touched in a broader way. Nevertheless, the proposal for a law, inter alia, to apply a solution that will be followed. They will increase access to education and learning efficiency and improve the social situation of students or eliminate unjustified discrimination in areas such as the social situation of students and their family members, higher and higher education, the recognition of working hours for the duration of the student work. In the SAB, we always listen to initiatives and ideas for young people, so we have signed the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students without reservation because we want to ensure equal access to education for young people regardless of their social status and to establish an intergenerational balance in the labour market. It grieves us, however, that a proposal for free transport has been deleted from the proposal in the legislative procedure. Safe mobility and strengthening of public transport for young people in Slovenia play an extremely important role in speeding up the transition to environmentally friendly modes of transport, and our proposal for free public transport has had our great support. We pledge to students and students that, in the next term, we will strive to provide free public transport for pensioners too. Young people need to be provided with knowledge, experience and opportunities to build their future. We need to give them the opportunity to create a self-sustaining environment and thus a better balance between professional and private life. Of course, we cannot provide everyone with a job, real estate, kindergarten, but it is our job to create good conditions for creating a stable future. To obtain permanent employment and purchase real estate if they so wish. In the SAB, we express great support for young people and their efforts to improve the social and economic situation. We will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mojca Žnidarič will present to us the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! For the second time in the last good four years, we are considering a bill to regulate the situation of students. Also in 2017, when the first law was passed, there were some criticisms about the way the law and the nomotechnics were adopted, which is no longer very specific in our space. As in many other areas since the adoption of the ZUJF, even in the last two years marked with Covid 19 disease, interference in several laws has also become a permanent practice, but mostly in intervention legislation. This time, too, we face similar questions. On this occasion, we reiterate that the solutions to the proposal are good. Some of the solutions were improved at the working body and later at the second reading at the meeting. Some of the solutions that we have been able to resolve in other regulations in recent months have become irrelevant and some have proved difficult to implement. We have arranged subsidised public passenger transport through the introduction of a single ticket for students and students in August last year, which certainly contributes significantly to greater accessibility of public transport for this target group. The initial requirement for an additional or other personal physician who would have been provided additionally to the students at the place of residence, however, in the given situation, when a few over 100,000 persons do not have a personal physician, proved difficult to perform and was deleted from the bill. The problem of lack of family doctors is felt by all, so we began to deal with this problem last year by adopting the Emergency Health Action Act, which introduced a financial incentive in the form of a supplement to select specialization from family medicine. We believe that because of the foregoing, a more favourable solution will be found in the future for students who will want to have an additional personal doctor at the study site. In meeting the key solutions to the bill, we are once again stressing changes in state scholarships, both as regards the rise in scholarships and the introduction of two new income classes. In this respect, we stress that direct contact with employers is very important for students at the time of the study, so we want this direct work experience to be based more on the introduction into the working environment of the selected employer and less on the need arising from material deprivation. The reality is different and we therefore welcome the rise in state scholarships. The subsidised student diet was also discussed in the National Assembly years ago. This time we found consensus both in extending the time interval at which it is possible to use subsidised student diets as well as in increasing the subsidy for a student meal. The amount of the subsidy is expected to rise from the current 2.35 euros to 3.50 euros. The time interval at which subsidised student diet could be used would be between 7 p.m. and 22 p.m. and not more than 8 p.m. to 21 p.m. In the Group of Members, in particular, we will support the proposal for a law to regulate the situation of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u10	Good-bye! In the young world, we hear that very often. And that's true, young generations are our future. Students who are now studying will work for our pensions when the decision makers of this marriage retire. It is right to make sure that the law makes it easier for students to study and enable them to enjoy quality social security. Students already have enough problems with individual professors who require them every year more, so why not make the study easier for them. It is this law that allows students more rights, a fairer study environment and, above all, an improvement in the social situation. The law interferes in many areas for a long time with outstanding student issues, so we are also co-signers of this law. Some changes are as follows. The law introduces a change in subsidised student diet, student vouchers will be able to be used by 22 p.m., and the subsidy will also be higher. The main solution in the law is also to allow access to scholarships for students or students who are first educated regardless of age. A very good solution is to raise state scholarships across all classes and to identify two new additional classes of recipients of the state grant. The additional resources will be provided from the state budget for the construction and necessary reconstruction of student homes. The law also provides for the application of the pension period obtained through the student work in the calculation of the work-life allowance in the employment relationship under the employment contract. These are just some of the useful solutions. In short, the law is good and is intended primarily for students. In addition to studying, a number of students are also doing student work, and in this way they will also provide certain references that will benefit them in finding a regular job. Students who study and work in addition are worthy of the value of our society, so state policy must help them wherever they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello, colleagues and everyone who's following us! We have before us a bill to regulate the situation of students. The aim of the amendment of the law is to improve the position of students. In Slovenia, education is free of charge and also higher education, which is a great advantage for Slovenia, quality of life, work, stay, in Slovenia, in our home, so care for students is particularly important. Solutions, some important solutions, regulate the improvement of the situation. One is an increase in state scholarships by 20%, the other to burden the student's family, as the grant no longer affects the income to the minimum wage. The amount of subsidised food, which now amounts to 3.5 euros, is also finally increasing, and students will be able to live a more relaxed life, as they will be able to benefit from meals from 7 to 22 hours each day. And what's extremely exciting is that it's also about setting up an increase in the amount for the construction of student homes. It should be said that, ideally, it would be best for all students to stay in student homes, because staying in a student home does not just mean a solution to existential solutions, but it also means sharing knowledge in the largest intellectual incubator. There are new connections, new ideas and new opportunities and new creativity, so this is a vision that, of course, every student would also have the opportunity to stay in a dormitory. Their way of life is updated with a digital student card and, at last, the situation of students with special needs is regulated. Although it has been regulated in the Higher Education Act so far, the latter is much more written on the skin, as well as the fact that it can, care for the gifted. So, the vision of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which joins in approving this law, is that every student can study unburdened, timely and that the family supports it morally, not that it is financially burdened with it. So the student can also be independent. The Law on Higher Education and the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education enable us to study very many students by 2030 so that at least half of the students, or people aged between 30 and 34, will have at least the first level of higher education. [[…]] The Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students therefore helps to regulate this objective in an integrated way, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u13	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u14	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The law before us is the law that is said to be the law at the last stage and, unlike the government, we have supported this law in LMŠ from the very beginning, we have signed it, we have cooperated with young people, precisely because, as the ministries themselves say, they have not listened to it and have therefore prepared the law themselves. Well, today we're going against them. Young wasps are an extremely important part of our society. Young, young, young. It's a slogan that I stick to myself, it's a slogan that's stuck to our client's rejuvenation and practically the LMŠ client as such. This law improves the situation of young people, improves student life for a short time and also for a long time. The law also eliminates what is due to that very loud ZUJIF. The student community, which is well organised in our country, is not perfect, but it is right to help it and it is right to strengthen the scholarship policy. Science and education are key to the LMŠ and this measure will help make it easier for students to devote themselves to the study, as scholarships will gradually go up by 20%. The other measures taken by this law are the increase in student food subsidies. At ever-increasing food prices, it is somehow expected that food providers, due to a small subsidy, are withdrawing from the market of student food providers and, of course, is bad and is wrong, so we increase the subsidy and hope that we will be able to retain and encourage someone new to join food providers in order to have a wide choice and, above all, to have a high quality of food among the student population. An extremely important measure is also the exclusion of income for work done by students or students, and of course of staff scholarships up to the minimum wage of family income in the exercise of rights from public funds. Why? Many families were in a poorer material situation because of this, so this is the only right step. The Covid crisis that has now been or is still going on is a crisis that has not shown up, but has revealed the social, social pressures of young people, including their many schooling burdens at all levels, which are too high and therefore the burden is of great importance in this regard. A longer-term measure is, of course, a student stay. For LMŠ, the increase in student homes is a priority for us and for the student population and the funds we invest for this purpose will double. Education is free of charge in Slovenia, but this is not fully implemented as it should be, so, among other things, it is now abolishing the charging of any entry costs, the introduction of a digital student's card and an additional study year for each child born for students, as well as a clearer definition of student's status with special needs and student status with special status. As the LMŠ says, improving the situation of young students, in fact young students, is a priority in all areas. We are an important part of this party and, of course, we show this at a political level. This law is a step in the right direction. I know and I believe that there is much work to be done in all areas, but thank you young people, thank you for this activity, and now it is time for us to hear you in this house. In our parliamentary group you had allies when we were in the government and you have allies now in the opposition and you will have allies in the future. For we trust young people and therefore our slogan is with young people and not with young people and with young people Slovenia will be better. In this way, we will unanimously support the proposal for a law within the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u15	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected and respected! In the third reading, I would like to confirm the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on the Regulation of the Rights of Students, since this is the only one that is urgently needed and, above all, is socially fair. Once again, it is worth recalling that the outbreak of the crown of the virus and the unwise conduct of the ruling authority at the head with which Minister Kustec severely affected the students. They were closed to university doors, sent from student homes, and given some charity, although many are struggling with a student work that they were unable to perform because of the closure of society. The consequences are known – generations of students have only recently sat in the student bench and met their colleagues and colleagues. The NIJZ study on the covid-19 epidemic among students thus showed that the situation for a number of students was stressful. We witnessed an increase in anxiety, boredom, loneliness, and depression. And yet, the state, or, rather, the government, did not fail. As we pointed out at the second reading, this year the government council on student issues has not met at all, and this has not changed, unfortunately, between the second and third readings. The last available record is from an e-session last October. That says a lot about how important it is for the state and the department of student welfare. In the meantime, the minister will find time for promotional painting throughout the country, and for serious and responsible content work, unfortunately, there is no time. Respected and respected! Fortunately, students and their representatives did not let the carefree government put them to sleep. That is why today we have before us the amendment to the Law on the Regulation of the Rights of Students, which was created by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and which was submitted to the parliamentary procedure by members of the democratic opposition. The law provides an improvement in the social situation for students in a number of areas in which this Government has forgotten students. It also eliminates certain injustices committed by the other Janševa Government with ZUJF to students and students. After the last economic and social crisis, the other Janševa Government took the lead in tightening the belt for those who did not cause the crisis, the third Janševa Government, with the underdogs and the pre-election bonboniers, was primarily concerned about its potential voters and voters and supporters, but unfortunately, she had completely forgotten about the students who are the most advanced young people in society. This is expected in some way, since the current authority is probably not rightly counting on this most advanced electoral body, this free-thinking, open electoral base. But, with respect and respect, in the democratic opposition to students and their difficult social situation, we have not forgotten. And while Janša's Government opposes the law, let us hope that this assembly will not forget what it is like to be a student and that we need to improve their social situation. Even now, when there are times when food and energy can be stimulated, I believe that we need to improve the scholarship conditions in our country, the student diet, improve the living conditions for students. Respected and respected! Social Democrats will be supported by a law that will greatly improve the social situation of students in our country. I hope that you will also do so to other Members' groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u18	President, thank you for your word. Students are not one of the privileged groups here, on the contrary. They often face social shortages during their studies, instead of studying, they have to deal with basic survival. The social picture of the students went even so far that some students have to work through a student's guide, not only for their own survival, but also for the survival of their home people, who spend months in the countryside, usually. Here are the rents that grow in the sky. There are more and more forms of a paying way to study. And here are the rising cost of life, a scholarship policy that has long been lagging behind the real needs of students and students. Forty thousand students are therefore those who benefit from the Institute of Student Work, as it were said, especially from the subject of survival. What half of these are such that the student work is done practically full-time. This was a picture before the covida-19 outbreak. The government of Janez Janša further pushed students into the zoo. She made it very clear and showed how much she doesn't like smart people. Therefore, at a time when such and other solidarity and observant additions were flying left and right, the students of this happiness had nothing to do with it. Of course, once, twice they received some solidarity aid in some more symbolic than practical amount, and this came to all students equally, whether coming from the poor or coming from privileged families. That is why I am so much more pleased that we are considering today and will happily vote on the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students, which, at least a few times, corrects this terrible situation, in which the students on the tail of government priorities. He raises a grant for student vouchers to make it easier for students to get their hot meals, he also increases scholarships. In addition, for the first time, the legal provisions introduce content that addresses a severe sexual harassment problem in colleges. I think that the three are very good reasons why ladies and gentlemen, in today's consideration, we must support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u19	Thank you, too. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that by adopting the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2030, the Resolution on the Scientific Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia laid the foundations for the development of a quality and accessible higher education system in Slovenia. The resolutions already adopted will also affect the position of students in some areas in the coming years, which, according to our wishes and guidelines in the resolutions, is expected to improve and allow for good studies also by allowing for the rehabilitation of professors. This will allow for the accelerated transfer of knowledge to our education and research sector. The Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students brings improvements in the field of scholarships, as scholarships are being increased and awarded for the 6th and 7th income classes, resulting in a better position for both students and their families in the exercise of rights from public funds, since the staff scholarships and student work up to the minimum wage are not included in the income of the entire family. Members of New Slovenia we have taken an even greater step forward with a package of social legislation. Our proposal for laws implies that staff scholarships and student work are fully excluded and not taken into account in the calculation of rights from public funds. Work is a value and, as recognised experts and psychologists say, work habits in children begin at birth. Sadly, parents were forced to prevent their children from doing so because of such illegal anomalies. Young people are also fed up with this anomaly and are left to their computer, street, and are losing social virtues. [[Incomprehensible]] Young people need to acquire working habits and skills. These guarantee good jobs and employment after completion of education. Justice and solidarity are also seen in the recognition of the state grant. The scholarship is part of a family policy and is intended for the student. It must not affect the social status of the family, nor must it affect the child's allowance. Of course, we are counting here on the unanimous support of the social legislation package by all Members. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the rise of the grant for a student meal from 2.82 euros to 3.50 euros and the improvement of the situation of students with special needs. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB. Anybody want to talk? Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President, once again for your word. I'll be brief. I just want to define the amendment that has been tabled and very briefly to touch on that law. In our views, we have heard what the law changes, what the law corrects. From what I hear, the law will also be passed, as it is heard, with all the voices of this National Assembly, which on the one hand shows, of course, that the subject is important, but on the other hand also points to the fact that we are before the elections. I am pleased that the Government has changed its opinion at this point, but as I said, I ask myself whether it is because of a serious desire to regulate this situation or because the elections are actually at the door, given the prior ignorance of young people by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In the face of these organizations, they have all said that coordination has been difficult and that they have not been heard, so they have also drawn up such a law themselves. Of course, it was only right that such a law, which regulates the situation of young people in the broader field, introduces the first of the same, that is, the President of the National Assembly and, of course, in the LMŠ as well as other positions parties, we co-signed the bill. To go to the article ahead of us, which is the amendment to Article 23. By this proposal, we essentially replace the word “social affairs” with the word “work” and delete the ninth paragraph. Why? We have received an opinion, as of course all of you, from the Legal and Legislative Service, which warns that the Minister, who has to lay down this harmonisation of the rules in paragraphs 1 and 2, is the Minister responsible for work and not the Minister responsible for social affairs. The amendment to paragraph 9 is therefore necessary in order to harmonise a law which has already deleted another article and therefore the content of this paragraph is in fact completely irrelevant and unnecessary, since the matter is already regulated in paragraph 2. I hope and believe that this amendment will be adopted, given that it is more of a nomotechnic nature and regulates the law than it is, that it will be substantially easier and more consistently written, which is, of course, also the thing that is very clearly written in our Constitution, that laws must be very clear and written to people in such a way that everyone understands it, but of course we have seen it so many times, so I hope that this amendment will also be adopted. As once again, the parliamentary group will be most pleased to support such a proposed law and, of course, we will be happy to regulate the situation of young people in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. As has been said, the amendment is more than a nomotechnic nature, so I will support it myself. In fact, I didn't intend to come forward first, but I have to deny what my colleague said before me that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport had not cooperated with the students. I also had a personal meeting with a fellow Member who then told me that everything in the field of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which is in this law in their field, is in line with the Ministry. That's what they assured me. It was true that it was not with some others, especially infrastructure, but then it was later also, it is said, these transport tickets were later exempted from the law because they had been previously resolved in a different way. But this information that the Ministry of Education has not cooperated with students and that the law has not been harmonized with them is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see it's an interest. I'll just open the application. The application shall be made. Here you go. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u27	He's sorry. Did you have a replica? [[background advertising]] Here you go. Replica first, Nick Prebil.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I just want to replicate very briefly. Yeah, maybe I misspoke. The coordination at the Ministry of Education, of course, was at a lower level than at other ministries, but young students warn that not only can the Minister of Education come to this law but we have often told the LMŠ that we are doing our work. As students have said, however, they themselves have said that other ministries have not received the kind of response they would like, and that is why they have prepared the law themselves, and that is why the law is the way it is before us, and I think it fits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Eva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. As President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, I can say that I have invited young people, youth organisations and also student organisations to all meetings of the Committee in such a way that everyone can speak convincingly about the cooperation between the ministry and student organisations. One of these was not long ago when he evidently commended the participation of the diocese community. I don't think talking to the Ministry was responsive is extremely inappropriate. The law that came today was true, and for several years also Nova Slovenija I personally met with them several times and placed my heart on them to make radical changes in the field of human resources scholarships and student work. I said here to do something in this area, because it's good for you. Also in the area of the promotion of general relief at the beginning. However, the proposal suggests that staff scholarships and student work at the level of the minimum wage will not be included in the income of the family, but it seems to me that it is important that we still hope that by the end of the permit you will also be able to support the proposal of the New Slovenia social legislation, where the law will talk about the fact that the staff scholarship and student work are not fully taken into account in the calculation of the family, which means that this must not affect whether a relative receives a scholarship, gets a child allowance, financial social assistance. [[…]] This is absolutely necessary for us to accept, so I really am counting here when we are all talking about student rights, that their situation needs to be regulated so that we can agree on this. Work must become a value and it is right that if a student works, it will not affect everyone else in the family. It's our wish, our effort. It is also right that student meals from 2.82 raise the subsidy to 3.50. We have talked a lot about having knowledge of healthy eating. Perhaps for someone this is the only warm meal of the day, so it is only right that we do much work in this area in the future. As I said in the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme until 2030, as well as in the Scientific Research Innovation Strategy of Slovenia, there are areas where they will improve the situation of students in the years to come, including those with special needs, and that is right and this Government is also working and following the work of Nova Slovenije. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u31	Thank you, too. It is kind of common for us to allow a broad debate at the first amendment, but I appeal to all of you to stick to the contents of the amendment. Moica the Boxer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The Law on the regulation of rights from public funds from 2010 was intended to regulate the receipt of these funds in a transparent and fair manner, but, of course, once things are in place, shortcomings are also seen in practice and this needs to be rectified. The law, this law at the back of the house, it makes it right, even some of these things. At the same time, it must be said that students always engage very actively in regulating their situation. I've been in education my whole life. In the last decade, and perhaps more particularly with the system, and I can say that I have met several students, even before the mandate of this government, and I have talked to them about their situation and the problems they have cited. This law has actually been in existence for several years, and it is also because it can only so effectively verify the facts that have indeed changed because of all possible matters, and since the crisis we have survived, and at the end of the financial crisis now at the beginning of this decade, as well as the current Covid crisis. I can also confirm that we have discussed this issue and other issues with students, especially with our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we have shown a full understanding of this at the outset. And I also learned that students were also actively talking to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, so I have to say that the current result is that we have this law on the table, thanks to the proposaler, the President of the National Assembly, the fruit of really broad debates, and I think there is no need for anyone to be criticized here. I think that all of us who have dealt with this issue, as well as the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, have made the greatest effort and have made every effort to ensure that, with the resources available to Slovenia at this time, we can adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Nick Prebil has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u34	Thank you very much again. He will conclude at this point, because I do not want to start a controversial debate now. I agree with what was said. It is a pity that you did not approach this at the beginning, because this coordination would be even better, but only one comment would be made on what colleague Dimic said. I know the students were present on your boards. I came to your committee myself when we discussed these topics, because this topic is important to me. But there's only one thing that bothered me that you said, and that's that you're asking young people to get ready and come here with it. I agree that it is right for young people to be encouraged to take action to present their proposals, in fact to have the courage to step forward and say what they want in their future. However, it is our task, first and foremost, to the governments, namely the Ministry, to identify the areas in which the problems are and to prepare appropriate legislative changes for this area. We Members of the National Assembly, like those at the highest level, so legislative, of course, can properly amend and correct these changes and adopt them. That is why I would like, of course, what is needed first of all, to ensure that every time the Government works with young people, by coordinating them, so that we can get the right solutions that help them in the long run. As it is said, once again, the amendment that is proposed is more of a nomotechnic nature than it is, and I also hope that it will be adopted and thus even more quality and adequately supplemented than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today or tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investment in Spartan infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia from 2023 to 2027, a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 37 Members and Members with first-signed Gregor Perič. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Gregor Peric.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u36	Vice President, thank you for your word. The present law, which is before us today, foresees investment in sports infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia between 2023 and 2027. We have estimated that the amount of €150 million in these five years would be something that would move the area forward, that is, 30 million per year. We came from the decision of the competent Education Committee, which in 2019 somehow committed the Ministry to review what the Ministry had done. Nearly 190 congregations responded to this review, explained what they needed, and this law actually responds. By this law we actually want to spread sports infrastructure across all municipalities, across all regions, across all areas of Slovenia. This is about young people, as well as less young people, being able to participate in the sport field in the widest possible sense. We do not want this infrastructure to be concentrated only in urban centres, so this present law, which will actually help make this investment even more. If we want to be on the side of sports and athletes in politics not only when success comes and takes pictures of medals but also do something concrete, something tangible for them. I believe that investment in sport infrastructure is the first step towards contact with sport, both professional and recreational. That is why I believe that support for this law will not be missed. Thank you very much for your attention and also for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u37	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojca Škrinjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investment in sport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia from 2023 to 2027, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Gregor Perič. A representative of the proposer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, representative of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the Committee. The representative briefly presented the objectives of the bill and the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science and Sport said they welcomed the proposal. Representatives of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport said that the Commission supports the proposal, as there is no relevant network of sports facilities in Slovenia that would provide adequate conditions for the preparation of competitions and the implementation of major international sports competitions. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in accordance with its powers. Their representative said that this proposal increases the amount of funds for which the legislator is committed in advance to provide them in the coming years' budgets, irrespective of the budgetary planning rules laid down by the Law on Public Finances and Other Public Financial Regulations, irrespective of the macroeconomic situation and the requirements arising from the fiscal rule laid down in Article 148 of the Constitution. The PSC further stated that it is not clear what sport infrastructure covers and which investments in sport infrastructure are necessary over the next five years and therefore justify the provision of funds by means of a proposal for a law. It made concrete comments on Articles 1, 2 and 3. With regard to the amendments tabled, she said that the comments on the definition of the concept of sport infrastructure in Article 1 had been removed and that they addressed the non-compliance within Article 3. However, the other comments were not to be corrected. The amendment to Article 3 also increases the degree of uncertainty of investments and gives the government a broad field of assessment in setting priority areas for financing and co-financing investments. The discussion then stressed that the aim of this proposal was not primarily to focus on top sports, but on infrastructure in as many Slovenian places as possible. They want to provide money according to specific criteria, and they have also identified the sport infrastructure to which the law applies on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. They also set a deadline for the government to adopt an annual plan for investment in sport infrastructure. The government adopts an annual investment plan in Pardon. [[…]] Some discussers, however, cautioned that this was a completely populist and pre-election law, without any responsibility to the budget, and stated that the amount of funds which the legislator commits in advance to provide in the budgets of the coming years, irrespective of the budgetary planning rules laid down by the Public Finance Act and other public financial rules, irrespective of the macroeconomic situation and the requirements arising from the fiscal rule. Of course, it is impossible to oppose the law, they were the only ones, but it is necessary to appeal to the reality and sustainability of public finances. However, the proposed legislation stressed that the proposal was based on the Committee's conclusions that the Ministry, in cooperation with local communities and civil society, should prepare a review of planning in sport infrastructures by cost assessment. And this proposal is a real result of these needs, as the estimates of the municipalities were already about half higher. At the same time, they also highlighted the need for sport infrastructure in all areas and across Slovenia. The Committee then [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] adopted the amendment tabled and all articles, a supplementary proposal has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u39	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Mitji Slavinc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. The government, of course, welcomes and supports the proposal, even more so as it is directed to ensure more coherent regional development in the field of sport, in the field of sports infrastructure. As early as 2019, an analysis was carried out to investigate local communities about the need for investment in sport infrastructure. And it turned out that there were almost 300 million needs for investment in sport infrastructure. Therefore, the law, which provides for 150 million budgetary resources in 5 years, will make it important to implement all these projects, even more so, as the local community will then be able to make it easier for the State to co-finance those facilities which it considers to be the most necessary and, of course, the most useful for the development of sport in their region. Once again, it is important in this area that such sport infrastructure will be dispersed throughout Slovenia, that funds will also be made available in previously overlooked areas and even more so, as this will also help to develop sport in areas where they have talents, and perhaps so far they have not had the opportunity to develop or have been forced to migrate to centres where this infrastructure has been. In view of that, I suggest you support each other's marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u41	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mojca Žnidarič will present to us the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Slovenia is a country with a rich sports tradition. We are an all-rounded, but only two-million-dollar nation that can confront larger nations with remarkable success in the sport field. Due to the relatively good infrastructure, the co-financing of local communities and the country, the hard work of trainers, especially volunteers, the exceptional support of parents and, in particular, the perseverance of athletes, we are known as the state of champions. But it's not just top-notch and professional sport that counts us out. On one of Slovenia's official presentation websites, we find a record that Slovenians like to be active and that more than two thirds of the population are recreationally engaged in sports. The most popular activities in Slovenia include cycling, hiking, running and skiing. We have about 7,000 categorized athletes and athletes, and our athletes do not reap success only at home clubs and at home sites. Supreme Slovenian athletes also record success in the best European, American and other foreign strong leagues and clubs. Since 2020, we have our national holiday in Slovenia, the day of Slovenian sport, which we celebrate on 23 September, and it was also introduced on our initiative. In the Group of Members, we believe that the proposal for a law on the provision of financial resources for investment in sport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia from 2023 to 2027 is still necessary and necessary. The bill provides the basis for additional financial resources to be used to finance and co-finance investments in sport infrastructure for a period of five years, totalling €150 million. So, at the annual level, 30 million euro is provided from the state budget. The annual amount of funding provided under the bill may also be higher than the amount that could not be realised in previous years, with annual spending of EUR 60 million. The aim pursued by the bill is to use public funds effectively, to develop the area of sport, to raise the quality and sustainability of sport infrastructure, that is to invest in the modernisation and maintenance of sports facilities, taking into account the specific and specific needs of space, both locally and nationally. It is therefore a new law independent of the Resolution on the National Sport Programme 2014-2023 and calls based on the annual sport programme. Additional funding for sport infrastructure will be provided according to specific criteria, on the basis of an annual programme to be adopted by the Government by 31 March of the current year and a special call by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. At least three criteria will be relevant; contributing to the development of the area, the improvement of the quality and sustainability of sport infrastructure and the specific or specific needs of space. Providing a material environment for sport is also one of the priorities in the Resolution on the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014 to 2023. The bill therefore seeks to provide an efficient and accessible network of quality sports facilities and areas for sport in nature. The proposal for a law on the provision of financing for investment in sport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia from 2023 to 2027 will therefore be made in the Group of Members. [[sign for the end of the debate]] unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill is intended to provide funding for financing and co-financing of investments in sport infrastructure between 2023 and 2027, totalling €150 million. In view of the fact that this is a five-year period, i.e. 30 million a year, it is estimated that the amount of resources required to meet the needs for additional increases and improvements in the state of sports infrastructure during that period would amount to a good EUR 288 million. Therefore, only partial financial resources would be provided through a proposal for a law. Applicants shall, inter alia, indicate investment in the modernisation and maintenance of sports, sport and sports facilities at both local and national level. The bill was based on information transmitted by municipalities at the request of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The latter provided data on the needs of sport infrastructure and the Ministry then prepared a substantive and financial analysis of the needs of this area by 2027 for 186 municipalities. The material also points out that one of the priorities in the Resolution on the National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2023 is also an effective and accessible network of quality sports facilities and areas for sport in nature. In the DeSUS Group, we agree in a certain part with the applicants. We are aware that effective sport infrastructure is needed and that the need for sport infrastructure is high. Of course, we can't object to that. The problem is in the financial incontinence of the bill. As the Legislative and Legal Service also warns, it is a matter of pre-imposing the legislator to provide certain funding and co-financing for investments in sport infrastructure in the coming years, including those for which the budget is not yet planned when the draft law is adopted. The adoption of this law would therefore pre-commit themselves to the provision of these funds in future budgets, irrespective of the budgetary planning rules laid down by the Public Finance Act and other public financial rules, irrespective of the macroeconomic situation and the requirements arising from the Constitution of a particular fiscal rule. Although we have already adopted laws in this mandate that similarly committed ourselves to providing funds for investment in the Slovenian military and for investment in Slovenian health care, this proposal differs from the transitional one, even after it is not possible to understand which investments are to be invested with the funds at all. The proposal thus does not give rise to which investments are so urgent over the next five years as to justify the provision of funds under this law. Regardless of our concerns in the DeSUS Group, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u45	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u46	Dear President and all present. The law is good as it enables the development of sport by providing financial resources and the possibility of gradual multi-annual planning and building the necessary infrastructure in the field of sport. The bill provides funding for financing and co-financing of investments in sport between 2023 and 2027 totalling €150 million. The funds will be used for the construction of sports halls, gyms, swimming pools, treadmills, outdoor fitness and could also be listed. In the quota, he will also acquire Maribor. In 2023, the European Youth Olympic Festival is organized for young athletes from 14 to 18 years of age. The funds provided for in this Act will also be used to build infrastructure with the above-mentioned event. In particular, the funds will have an impact on the health treasury, as a healthy lifestyle has also been proven to help the health picture of the population by means of sport. We Slovenians are a sports nation, which is reflected in more than excellent results of our athletes in the biggest competitions as well as in the organization of events such as the World Ski Jumping Cup in Planica, the Golden Fox organization and the already mentioned European Youth Festival, could also include, among others, Castle Prix in Krske in Speedway. Sport connects us as a nation, because we are more than proud of the participation of our athletes in various sports competitions. This fact led the legislator to take a decision in this mandate to designate 23 September as a holiday in the Republic of Slovenia, which is unfortunately not a working day. Above all, it is important that children begin to learn about various sports and therefore we certainly need facilities. It is important that the child is aware of which sports exist and that, on the basis of this information, he can decide later in life which sport he will engage in. It is no good, however, that parents force their children too much into certain sports or overburdening their children with all possible leisure sports activities just to give them time for their lives. However, sports infrastructure is important, as it is impossible to imagine the development of sport without it. There are more sports disciplines from year to year, and this must also be responded appropriately by building a new sport infrastructure. We welcome the trend that more and more sports move on the outside, such as outdoor exercise, running, cycling, swimming and more. While activities are taking place in the open, it is necessary to ensure a controlled, safe environment where recreationals can concentrate entirely only on their exercise. In all of this, we must not forget the fans, for many times with their activities they witness an unforgettable atmosphere and thus contribute indirectly to success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u47	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, all present, good afternoon. There is probably no individual among us who would oppose investing in sports infrastructure. Sport connects, motivates, disciplines, preserves our health and condition while promoting positive habits and values. Slovenia has a markedly positive deviation from the world average in sport, so we need to make better use of the human and natural gifts that are available to us. Members of coalition parties with first-signed Members and Members of Parliament have, in particular, submitted to the National Assembly the Law on the provision of financing for investment in sport infrastructure in Slovenia for the period from 2023 to 2027. [[Incomprehensible]] The level of funds would be guaranteed at the time of the adoption of €150 million, which means 30 million per year. In the Group of Members, we will support the proposal of the law, because sport unites and unites us and does not separate or exclude us. That is why I do not want to define myself politically in decision-making, but in favour of sport. We do not want to get involved in a fight about who more and who less supports sports, but we cannot pass the fact that the National Assembly announced in this mandate on 23 September for the day of Slovenian sport. On this day in 2000, the Slovenian anthem was first played in the history of the Republic of Slovenia at the Olympic Games. And today we are not here to warm up ideological divisions in the field of sport. The decision to celebrate the day of Slovenian sport as a state holiday is our specialty. It is therefore right to upgrade this symbolic gesture with laws that will also support and promote the development of sport in our country of Slovenia in the future. We probably all agree with the fact that in Slovenia there is always a culture or science pastor for sport, so for the next Government it will be a challenge to increase the financial scope for co-financing. In the new national sport programme from 2023 to 2032, and will provide more stable financing for sport. We cannot deny this government the credit for making a shift in tax reliefs and preventive health checks of athletes. The intentional allocation of income for these purposes increased from 0.5 per cent to 1 per cent and allowed companies to invest 5 per cent of their profits in sport. We must be aware, however, that the financing and regulation of the situation in the field of sport is not only a top sport, but also other areas of recreational sport, children's sports mobility, because we believe there has been a dramatic decline. Despite the constant warnings of the World Health Organisation and the professional public that the schools of the last institutions to close their doors and the first to open them, that they should be allowed to sport children in clubs, the Minister was completely deaf and was blindly following the President of the Government, since it has been proven that the Government has taken restrictive measures on several occasions on the basis of his personal decisions. Someone else remembers the worrying explorers of the Slofit group. [[Incomprehensible]] They found that the biggest decline in the mobility of Slovenian children in history has been accompanied by these activities, so we are looking at this law more closely than the Ministry's correctional exam and the patch on the wounds that will be difficult to heal. Nevertheless, the unconnected Members will be supported by this law. In the next term, we will provide for more sports content in curricula and free sports content. Sports education and child sports are of paramount importance for the psychophysical development of children, their motor skills and the strengthening of the responsibility of the team spirit and discipline. Connecting the education system to sport is crucial, so we will increase resources and the number of hours of sports education in primary and secondary schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u49	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One invests in banks and shares them with the first-class. Others we invest in the economy and give people and build infrastructure with this law sport infrastructure. €150 million from 2023 to 2027, €30 million per year. So far, between 3 million and 5 million per year have been provided in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for sport infrastructure, and if there is only one representative of the municipality where it knows that this is a minimum, which should be provided by a city municipality. Not to mention how important sports infrastructure is for recreationals, for top athletes, for young people, but for older people we can also go to industries that have been crying for decades and waiting for the construction of what kind of infrastructure they need to build. We have been working on such a law as is adopted today in the parliamentary group or in the SDS party for a long time. We have tabled amendments to the state budget, called for urgent meetings of the Education Committees. Finally, this law was based on the conclusions of the Committee on Education in 2019 when four important decisions were also adopted and called on the municipalities for their needs. The fact is, we are all proud of us, of our athletes, who unfortunately practice in catastrophic spatial conditions. Sport infrastructure in Slovenia is old, substandard and sometimes work is dangerous. Branches are asking for help, mayors are patching up what is left of the municipal budget and doing what is possible. Young people, in particular, do not have sports surfaces and therefore stay at home in front of computers and TVs. There's a lot of need. According to the 2019 census for almost a billion euros, we would like to give 150 million euros to Slovenian municipalities for sport infrastructure this time. We also really hope for those who are effectively used. In short, 150 million in five years, 30 million at annual level, and in law, it is the basis for the government to define investments with an annual plan and then the call for proposals. Let me get this straight. This government is building Slovenia. We build roads, railways, preschool and school infrastructure, health infrastructure and sports infrastructure on the basis of laws we adopt in the National Assembly to create conditions for the construction of Slovenia. As one of the proponents of this law, however, thank all those who have participated in the drafting of this law in these few months, the Ministry of State, Mr Dolinšku, the Ministry of Finance and anyone else we have forgotten. This law is, last but not least, proof that we are not sitting and waiting for the government's direction, but we are working proactively and building Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u51	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u52	Yeah, we're just ahead of the election, you know, we're still separated for a couple of weeks, and basically everybody's just bragging about what they're sharing, and they're talking about railways, a little road around, and what else do I know? Only what is the essence of this law. It is a marriage that is nothing but a single letter of intent, and it binds someone forward to the Bianca, but it does not say where they will put the money, nor in any congregation, nor in any facility, in short, absolutely nothing. Who is not for sport, who does not support athletes in Slovenia? We all support them, but this government simply does nothing by law and by some normal logic. We have the Public Finance Act, which says exactly how these things are regulated. Ask whether this is provided in the budget for 2023. Not a single euro is guaranteed, not one. Is this in the development programme plan, as set out in the Public Finance Act? No, no, no. We are three weeks ahead of the elections and it is important to say out loud that someone is for sport and sports. What have they been doing for two years? What has this government been doing for two years? This could have been done six months ago when we adopted the budget and then heroically told exactly where the congregations were and where it would be put, and so again some congregations would literally hang because they had to finance themselves, whereas the friendly congregations in cooperation with this coalition were to receive it. At the last moment, amendments were being made to correct and determine even the dates of the current time when the budgetary facilities or the funds to be allocated should be set. 31.3. What day are we today? We're in April of the month. And this is said to be the current year, the second year someone is supposed to be a Bianca, this government is certainly not, because it will no longer provide something. But what's most important is that they don't say what objects. The Sports Act and the concept of a sport object and a sport area in nature would not bind themselves to this, and the amendment stipulated that these sports facilities should be designated there. We know different sports facilities, we have municipal, educational facilities that are responsible for building municipalities, we have recreational facilities that are for large masses and we have facilities that are purely and exclusively for professional purposes. That's what they say about sports facilities, they don't say anything, they just say how many million they owe, 150 million, and then wherever they go. I am in favour of building these sports facilities and in LMŠ we support the construction of sports facilities, but not in this way, not in this way, when we don't actually know what we actually have in the jacket. However, I believe that this coalition has already agreed on the front page and promised some mayors something to build. Only one thing and one detail was forgotten when this law was supposed to be implemented long ago. We do not support such an illegal way in the LMS. Therefore, we will propose a different system in the LMŠ, a different way that will be legal and invest in sports facilities as it is necessary to invest and that will be the same for all. Don't brag about the coalition by giving people something, people pay taxes, we're obliged to give them in a legal way.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Gregor Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u54	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Sports-liberal activity, regardless of its appearance and life expectancy, is an important social activity. It is an expression of its dynamics and part of a general culture that enriches the quality of life of an individual and society as a whole. Interdisciplinary sport is intertwined with various social fields, health care, education and education, the economy, the environment, tourism, culture, science and defence. This is why local communities and countries are involved in its development in addition to sports associations and other sports organisations. Sport has achieved a very good level of development in Slovenia, reflecting the ingenious system of regulation of the professional, organisational and management tasks of local communities and countries. The task of the State is in line with the Sport Act and the National Sports Programme to promote the development of sport with financial and professional support, particularly in those areas that have an important impact on the development of sport, including investment in sport infrastructure. The National Sport Programme in the Republic of Slovenia pays particular attention to the construction and maintenance of sports facilities, which should be multi-purpose. One of the priorities of the national sport programme 2014-2023 is an effective and accessible network of quality sports facilities and areas for sport in nature. Sports facilities must be accessible to all categories of the population, sports facilities in schools must be best used for the needs of pupils, parents and associations outside school work days. We advocate that in the future we also need to complement the network of sports facilities, which will be supported by an assessment of the situation of actual needs, taking into account the principles of rational construction and equipment, as well as the economic management and maintenance of the building. In some local environments, cost-intensive sports facilities have been built for maintenance, which will be difficult for local communities to maintain due to limited local budgets. The Law on the provision of financial resources for investment in sport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia in the years 2023-2027, which is ahead of us, cannot be contested because it contributes to the actual application of the commitments we made long ago. As in similar matters, of course, it is necessary to recall the sustainability of public finances, but the content and purpose of the law, of course, cannot and will not oppose all those who support Slovenian sport. The second question is, but we have enough money for this in the budget, which is already recording the deficit, but in the first place the current government, or the Minister of Finance, must answer that. Although there is an additional problem with the law that the proposal does not specify anywhere what sport infrastructure should be, which is why we propose to complement it by referring to the definition of sports infrastructure as defined in the Sports Act as sports facilities and sports areas in nature. It would also be good to put in place a mechanism to ensure the exercise of public interest by financing and co-financing investment in sport infrastructure in a transparent way. The law currently provides for the implementation of the annual investment programme on the basis of an annual plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for each year. In the case of the investment cycle from 2023 to 2027, it would be appropriate to identify the indicative set of identified infrastructure needs appropriately and to include in its design bodies and organisations identified by the Sport Act as competent in the field of sports. Respected and respected, the Social Democrats will support this development of Slovenian sport. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u55	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u56	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. Today's bill provides funding for financing and co-financing of investments in sport between 2023 and 2027, totalling €150 million, or 30 million a year. This is another proposal for a law that will, in addition to providing investment in primary and kindergarten infrastructure, which, after 12 years of drought, has provided over 125 million for our primary schools and kindergartens, and this law will also ensure stable financing of Slovenian sport. Slovenian sport is certainly the largest and most visible ambassador to Slovenia in the world. We are all proud of the success of our athletes and athletes, and it is time for things to be regulated in the field of sport in Slovenia through stable, predictable funding. Years ago, Members of New Slovenia wanted to arrange the financing of Slovenian sport through tax reliefs, but unfortunately the coalition did not have a hearing about it. We certainly missed the opportunity, and we may have missed some successful athlete as well. By adopting the Income Act and the Law on Taxation from Legal Persons, the Government has legally raised and provided for a higher benefit for grants intended for sport from 0.3% to 1% and with additional relief for certain purposes an additional 0.2% from the income of enterprises, independent entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. Sports organisations welcomed the move and also welcomed the new donation of 3.8% of the revenue to top-sport programme providers, which is said to be almost 5% devoted to the government's adopted laws and to the Slovenian Sports Coalition. And that means that by actions we are proving what we are saying and that we want to develop and support, including our athletes. Our Olympic and ambassador, to whom we are all proud, Benjamin Savšek said at the handout of the golden order of credit in the Presidential Palace: “We are a small nation made for great achievements”. The Slovenian sport connects and it is right that all the power and knowledge should be directed to this. We want to see successful sports achievements in the future, which is why the law, which will promote and provide the means to invest in sport, is one of our commitments and priorities. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the proposal for a law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Bratušek will introduce Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u58	Respectable. The bill before us provides funding for financing and co-financing of investments in sport between 2023 and 2027, which will total €150 million, which should be sufficient to at least partially meet the estimated needs for additional increases and improvements in the state of sports infrastructure in our country. More than once, we would like to stress that the athletes are the greatest and best promoters of Slovenia, the happiness and pride of their achievements bring us together and unity. To this end, the necessary meeting of the Education Committee was also proved three years ago when the situation in the National Assembly was reversed today. At that time, the representatives of the opposition, who form today's coalition, were the candidates. Among other things, a decision was adopted on the basis of which an inventory of infrastructure needs was created and on the basis of the latter, the law of today. It was a decision that was not opposed by any coalition representative, i.e. the current opposition. This shows that we have been coherent in understanding what the need to invest in sport infrastructure is for us. With the already mentioned pride and satisfaction with the good results and success of our athletes, we forget too many times what has led to it and what basic conditions have had to be met for the child to develop into a successful athlete. The basis for the operation of all individuals and sports society is, of course, linked to space and sports infrastructure. The numbers in this area are not very encouraging, since sports infrastructure is expected to reach almost 40 years of age on average, with the largest cities Ljubljana and Maribor. The need to improve this situation, the need to update this situation is impossible to challenge. Of course, this is not just about ensuring the basic conditions for professional athletes, but it is also about ensuring that everyone who cares only for themselves and their well-being must also have conditions. We Slovenians are the first to use natural sports areas in the European Union, and we are also the first to be among the most active sports people in the EU. Infrastructure does not follow this, and it is right to change this. In the SAB party, we point out the following - to identify priority areas for financing. If the annual plan is to be the basis for the public tender and the subsequent publication of the criteria for the selection of investments, we would like to see the development of municipalities as a criterion. If I give you an example, this factor is below one in the karst municipalities. It is therefore necessary to take this important factor into account in the selection. As we are aware that sport infrastructure needs to be updated and adapted to modern trends, we will unanimously support the proposal for legislation in the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u59	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today or tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item – Proposal for a Decision on the recast of the Institute's independent higher education institution for industrial engineering of a new place. The draft decree was tabled by a group of 34 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Mojca Škrnjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u60	Greetings, presidents, greetings, colleagues and all those who accompany us! The Faculty of Industrial Engineering Novo Mesto is a private independent higher education institution founded in 2009 by the Novo Mesto School Centre and the Novo Mesto University and Research Centre, whose founder and later legal successor was the Municipality of Novo Mesto. It should be pointed out that the Novo Mesto School Centre is a public institution and that the Municipality of Novo Mesto is a local government. The university was then 22. 4. 2009 entered into the register of higher education institutions at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology at the time. The Council of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education or Shorter NAKVIS extended accreditation to the Faculty in 2016 for a period of seven years. Thus, this university has accredited the following study programmes in the class: technology, technology production, construction and technical sciences, engineering and vehicles, university study program Engineering and vehicles, master’s degree in engineering and automotive industry, and doctoral study program engineering and automotive industry. The purpose of the Decree is to transform the institution from private to public. They will be established, the institution will exit the founder's past, or public law, the Municipality of Novo Mesto and the Novo Mesto School Centre, and the Republic of Slovenia will enter as the sole founder. With this, FINI Novo mesto will become a public independent higher education institution. It is clear, therefore, that the founders are so-called elements of public law, since the local community is not private, nor is it a public institution of the Novo mesto School Centre. It is, in fact, that legislation, which thus defines private and public, is not appropriate and, as such, causes misunderstandings in the Member States, not only among the ignorant. The Faculty was established on the initiative of the industrial partners of the Dolenj region on the basis of their clearly expressed needs and development trends. FINI Novo mesto has a strong international network with several European universities in the field of research, including exchange of students and staff within Erasmus. It is also a member of the Faculty of SRIP Mobility, the Economic Interest Association ACS Slovenian Automobile Grad (GIZ ACS) and the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina (GZDBK). Due to constant changes, both in the economy and society in the field of new digital technologies and approaches, FINI Novo mesto is constantly following the latest trends in global education and research and constantly adapting educational and scientific content to the needs of businesses and society. The vision of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering Novo Mesto is an ambitious development in a recognised and recognised higher education institution in the field of technical sciences with the primary aim of developing an occupational and sustainable narrower and wider environment. The vision includes a focus on achieving a high quality level of teaching, scientific research and professional work. The development of innovative, internationally comparable research and research programmes and intensive international cooperation with the involvement in the global educational and research space. The new public institution, in accordance with the constitutional principle that education is free of charge in Slovenia, i.e. tertiaryly, has equalized the opportunities of all citizens and citizens, regardless of how wealth families come from, from which social and geographical backgrounds are derived, and has enabled students from the south-eastern region to become more accessible. It will also be one of the emergency pillars of the new public university, on which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a decision on its establishment. In this way, the new public university will link existing top-notch knowledge in technology and science, thus becoming a catalyst for development in an already ambitious and extremely busy region with the New Town Centre, which is already contributing 60 % more to the state treasury than the average of other regions. It is right for the region and its people, with their demonstrated potential, to also provide an opportunity for development in the intellectual and creative sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u61	Thank you, too. The proposal for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mojca Škrinjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u62	Thank you very much again, Chairman. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 45th emergency session. 4. 2022 and below 6. 4. 2022 discussed the proposal for a decree on the recast of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering of Novo mesto, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Daniel Krivec. The legislative and legal services have examined the proposed decision in accordance with their respective competences. Her representative said that state universities and state universities were a constitutional category and that the establishment of a university or a state university should therefore be constitutionally and legally justified. It further stated that their comments on the individual articles of the draft decree were fully taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Finally, it considered that, from a legal point of view, it was also necessary to establish that the content of the proposal for a decision represented a special way of transforming the private institution of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering of Novo Mesto into a public institution. This is not about reshaping, but about setting up a public higher education institution, which should reflect the title and content of the founding act. The Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also gave its opinion, which supported the proposal for a decree. In the introduction, the motion for a resolution was presented by the representative of the proposer and presented for her position by the representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. There was a debate in which some members and members of the Committee expressed support for the proposal for a decree, pointed out that out of all 16 public institutes there are 15 in central Slovenia and one in the coastal region, and that it must not continue with centralisation. They considered that all regions should have equal development, and that in redesigning the Faculty of Industrial Engineering, Novo Mesto listened to the New Mesto profession, which would contribute to greater democratisation and equal opportunities for all. They explained that it was the establishment of a public institution and not a privatisation, as the institution would be transformed into a public institution where the founder of the state would be, and that the latter would cover programmes that are suitable for the future. Others considered that the proposal for an act should be prepared by the Ministry, together with all the research, analysis and criteria necessary for the adoption of such material. They explained that they advocate public, quality and accessible public education for all, and that the establishment of a university or higher school is a constitutional category, which means that each such intervention must be legally and legally justified. In the last two years, it has been explained that there have been quite a few cases, such as the independent higher education institution of the village of Grm Novo mesto, the public research institute of Rudlfovo, the pomurska academic scientific union and others, when the state had to take private initiatives and finance them, and that this is done beyond the will of professions and trade unions. The Committee then adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and a proposal for an amendment to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft decree. Pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended proposal for a decree is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u63	Thank you, too. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Mitja Slavinc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. The government does not object to the proposal of the law, but we have pointed out that at the end of last year a decision was taken on the establishment of a university in New Town where this university is one of the planned to unite into this university and we have already set up a working group composed mainly of local actors who will prepare and work on this project, and we therefore note that in the event of this change in the status of the university, this should be taken into account in those materials that I highlighted and mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The views of the SNS Group will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. The changed faculties for industrial engineering Novo mesto from private to public higher education institutions is an important step towards the direction of the establishment of the fourth university in our Slovenian space. The faculty seat is located in south-eastern Slovenia, which according to statistics for 2019 is the largest region in Slovenia. Statistical data show us that the educated composition is not the most favourable since 26% of the population in the region had only completed the most basic education. According to its natural beauty, Dolenjska is also known for its most successful companies in the region. The car industry is very strong. Anyone who does not remember the legendary Katzka is also well known to us Adria Mobil, who manufactures car trailers and Krka with medicines, Trimo Trebnje and could also list. We are increasingly seeing that everything is centralised in Ljubljana, both the study programme and later on the jobs or greater opportunities are jobs. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the Faculty will contribute to decentralisation in the public education system. Many would say that we already have too many public universities in Slovenia and that their quality is declining. It is also misleading to believe that those who graduate from law or medicine in Ljubljana have more knowledge than those who end up in Maribor and are later more employed in the labour market. We believe that the development and establishment of higher education institutions in Slovenia must be supported. Over the years, we have seen that all too much interest is in social studies, which are also easier to do than in nature, and the problem arises in finding a job where everything is already occupied. The faculty must also have an appropriate and professional teaching staff, so that after the end the study among citizens does not say out loud that, for example, the neighbor did one year of college down there in New Town. The contribution of the faculty is to carry out study programmes for education, for the needs, wishes and interests of our economy and not the economy in the field of technical activities in the national and European environment, which we also think is a great plus. In short, under the line, we need an educated and professional staff who will be able to put things in the right place, with their expertise, knowledge, experience and, above all, a sense for our citizens. However, I certainly know that here the Faculty of Ljubljana and Maribor will certainly comment that we are going to establish a public institution, a public college, in New Town. However, as I said, Slovenia is not Ljubljana, Slovenia is also Ormož, Maribor, Primorska and not least Novo mesto, with Posavje and Krški. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u67	Thank you, too. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u68	Thank you very much again for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, nice greetings to all! The adoption of the sixth anti-Korona legislation started as it wished to extend the period during which existing higher education institutions must meet stricter conditions for their continued existence. The Constitutional Court first retained this arbitral decision until the final decision and then fully annulled it. The adoption of such a legal provision was a gift from the ruling coalition to the sympathetic private higher education institutions established and operating under the patronage of the Government's staff. The call for concessions for the implementation of study programmes at private higher education institutions continued. Prizes in the form of concessions were again won at those private colleges that are close to the ruling government. That on the audit of the Court of Auditors, which the authorities had called on a few years ago for a legislative review of the award of concessions in higher education, I am not even losing words. In the meantime, the Grm Novo mesto High School was transformed from private to public, and Mr. Borut Rončević was speedily building his college empire with the aim of establishing the fourth public university in Nova mesto. In the case of the Ministry of the Interior, its alma mater Faculty of Information Studies has already initiated a merger procedure with independent higher education institutions, with the Grm Rural Management School, which is now a public institution and with the Faculty of Industrial Engineering. This act of transformation from private to public entity is ahead of us today. By connecting the two private institutions, FIŠ is expected to meet the legal conditions laid down for the establishment of the university. The government even set up a public research institute or Rudolph’s New Town Science Centre. A few days ago, the principle of this institution was named Mr Rončević. The profession is, of course, critical to this move, since it is not a developmental, reckless and unreasonable decision that does not address current societal challenges. All it refers to is the attempt to build a higher education empire and connections to a state public financial manger. Unfortunately, we still need to point out in place the law on the post-war scientific academy, from which the political officials of the other coalition party will be fed, that we are not even talking about the illegal dismissal of members of the Management Board of the Agency for Research and the attempts to establish a military academy. All described and listed is the mode of operation of the ruling coalition in the field of higher education and science. In the background, there is nothing more than an impact on the design of higher education and research policies and occupied cities in strategic bodies such as the Rector's Conference, the NAKVIS Council, the Research Agency's bodies, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education and so on. This is certainly not a step towards defending the values of universal science in our country, but it is a step forward towards building a network that is fueled by partial political interests and in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in this regard we will by no means participate and we will vote against the proposal of the decision in question, with which the Faculty of Industrial Engineering would be transformed from a private to a public independent higher education institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues! Education is one of the basic areas in terms of social and not just individual development. Above all, it is important that education follows the needs of society, as it influences or promotes economic growth, improves social image and has a positive impact on prosperity. Education and research will have a decisive impact in society in the future on the development of individuals and society as a whole. The future will certainly bring more diversity and flexibility, and thus a greater complexity of education. The Faculty of Industrial Engineering is about everything. The Faculty was established in the south-eastern part of Slovenia in the New Town on the initiative of the industrial partners of the Lower Region on the basis of their clearly expressed needs and development trends. The Faculty of Industrial Engineering Novo mesto is now a private, independent, higher education institution established by the Novo mesto School Centre and the University and Research Centre Novo mesto, whose founder and later legal successor was the Municipality of Novo mesto. The mission of the Faculty is to implement study programmes for education in accordance with the current economic and non-economic needs in the field of technical activities in the national and European environment. The Faculty also behaves with a strong international network with several European universities in the field of research essential for the exchange of students and staff within the Erasmus Plus project. The faculty vision is an ambitious development of a recognised and recognised higher education institution in the field of technical knowledge with the primary aim of developing the profession and sustainable development of a narrow and broader environment. The purpose of the decree that we are considering today is the transformation of the institution from private to public. On the basis of the decision adopted, the establishment of the institution will lead to the withdrawal of the founder's rights to the public authority of the Municipality of Novo Mesto and the Novo Mesto School Centre, and the Republic of Slovenia will be the sole founder. Since the Faculty of Industrial Engineering can contribute greatly and further enrich the area of public education not later than the establishment of a public university in south-eastern Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we unanimously support the transformation of the so-called FINI into a public, independent, higher education institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Everyone has the right, it is said, to have some desire to establish such and different institutions. I can say that in the LMŠ Group we understand the region, we also understand the Municipality of Novo Mesto, that it wants further development and additional educational institutions. In this case, however, the very way of adopting this law is quite controversial. To go to some university through the law of a Member State is quite unserious. And because of us, I can say, it is very sad that only the ministry which should be proposing such a serious matter does not really object. We are also concerned that in the text of the proposal of this decree we can also read that there will be a reallocation of costs within the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. And then we can ask ourselves when this money will go to this new institution, where it will be taken, which public institutions will actually suffer. It should be pointed out that this proposal, as I have already mentioned, has not included any expert consultations; there has been no public debate in which professional proposals have been made. Finally, the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia in its letter publicly recalls that the principle of a democratic action and the principle of partnership, which is more than necessary in these cases, has been bypassed. Given that we are talking about the creation of a fourth public university and that the government is also talking about it, in LMŠ, once again, we do not oppose the establishment of new institutions, but now everyone who wants universities cannot get it without knowing in any other way and in another way, universities have been created over the centuries and that, above all, when new universities are growing, they must be at least as quality as they are now public universities, it is said that there will be no lowering of knowledge in Slovenian education. This is also pointed out by the Rector's Conference and its President, the Rector of the University of Ljubljana and the President of the Coordination of Independent Research Institutes of Slovenia, who have made sure that the government does not yet provide funds for the normal functioning of existing academic institutions with successful international achievements, but wants to establish a new higher education institution with state funding. It is said that only a country has what it has today and is very quality and where many global researchers come from, we can say, from Slovenian public universities, that the state does not actually finance as much as it should. It is true that he has a stepfather's attitude towards Slovenian science. As I said, because of the method of adoption, which is more than inconclusive, we cannot support such a proposal in the LMŠ and we will vote against the adoption of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Something's wrong. [[…]] Excuse me. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Željka Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u74	- Thank you. - Thank you. Everyone's gonna break something, and I'm gonna do it the last time. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Secretary of State probably listens to us. On Monday, the opposition's parties in this National Assembly, both the List of Marjan Šarc, the Party of Alenka Bratušek, the Left and the Left Social Democrats temporarily stopped a new lobbying gift for friends of the current government, which is being considered today through the proposal to establish a separate Finnish Institute of Higher Education in New Town. However, an urgent meeting was convened by the coalition this morning and the proposal for the Slovenian Higher Education Area for a harmful decision for a new higher education institution was confirmed. Just before the end of the term of office, the ruling coalition wants to take care of its supporters and friends, and in the last two years, it has cut down on the field of public higher education, which is autonomous and must thus remain, weaken it and destroy it with completely unfounded proposals, contrary to the general public. Social Democrats are convinced that this time it is also a partial and lobbyist proposal to maintain a private higher education institution from the ruling coalition's orbit, and behind this is the efforts of the current authorities to create a public university that belongs to the political sphere near this current government today. Representatives of the Rector's Conference and the coordination of Slovenia's independent research institutes, according to KOSRIS, reacted critically at a press conference last week to their view that the government's non-transparent work in establishing new public institutes and higher education institutions was not transparent. They say. The current establishment of new research institutes and regional public universities reveals that the competent ministry, the government and the ruling team are following the wrong and damaging thinking that by crushing the higher education and research space we will raise the quality of this. However, the President of the Rector's Conference, Dr Gregor Majdič, said that, as a member of the EU, we should demonstrate competitiveness and quality in the common European space, not that we are creating some kind of false competition and apparent balance within a two-million-dollar nation, that all of this goes beyond all professional criteria and without public debate. In addition, the new institutions did not go through international review procedures that were subject to all other public institutions in this sector. In Ljubljana, a meeting is held for science and against the re-degradation of research activities in Slovenia. In doing so, the University of Ljubljana has written down, quote: they are seriously concerned about the current establishment of new research institutes and regional public colleges or universities, which has happened in the last week and quickly without adequate analysis, professional and strategic assessment past consultations and transparent procedures. And we have sufficient pretenses to increase the quality of this kind of fragmentation of higher education and research space in Slovenia and to contribute to balanced regional development. We must prove our excellence and competitiveness in Europe, but not within two million Slovenia. Existing universities and research institutes have undoubtedly already demonstrated their quality in the international space. They need more pooling of capacities and investments in science, more GDP, only this will lead to the further development of Slovenia and will ensure that we can slowly approach the most developed countries and provide prosperity in this way to all people and people living in Slovenia, while caring for sustainable development. And to conclude. Instead of taking into account the current government's expertise, less than 3 weeks before regular elections, it shares a gift for friends, and this has to end, and it will certainly be on April 24th, if not earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u76	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering of Novo Mesto to a private institution into a public education institution is currently being converted into a separate and higher education institution, while the current head of staff in the institution is being maintained. This is a clear example of a political manoeuvre whereby a private institution, which is close to government clients, will become part of the public education system with a view to exhausting public funds and ensuring further access to copies and levers of power. Taking public funds from existing research institutes can be described as a real desant on the public higher education and scientific sphere and an obvious attack on the quality of the public higher education system. In doing so, it rightly raises the question of exactly who the university is intended for, and there is a reasonable suspicion of corruption. The SDS and NSI decision-makers wrote it without any dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders in the field of education and science. The central Slovenian research institutes, universities and trade unions were not part of the decision-making process despite several warnings that it was not a professional decision and that there were strong concerns about the public good which this transformation was supposed to represent. I will quote Mr Goraz Kovacic, President of the Slovenian High School Union, who said the following. I quote. “In the context of the establishment of the New Town University, the recent establishment of the Rudolfo Public Research Institute and the provision of start-up funds for it are also likely. Although the number of students of the future university will be very small, it will still apply for membership in the Rector's Conference. Through the Rector's Conference, the proponents will be able to directly influence higher education and research policy and bodies such as the Development Council of the Republic of Slovenia, NAKVIS, ARRS and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also stated in its opinion that the procedure by which the Government wants to transform the current private office into a public institution is not legally appropriate. ZVIS, the so-called Higher Education Act, which regulates higher education, does not provide for the possibility of a private higher education institution being transformed into a public institution. From this point of view, it is not a matter of transformation, but rather of the establishment of a public higher education institution, which should reflect the title and content of this establishment act. The SPS also has concerns about the other articles setting out the status of leading workers appointed prior to the adoption of the decision. It is also unseemly and unacceptable that the Government obviously intends to provide public money funding to the current private institute during a period in which the Minister responsible for education claims that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself not to accept the additional systemic burden of public finances under the next term of office or mandate at the time the elections have already been called for. By adopting the decree, another institution will appear in the Slovenian public education system, whose purpose and mission is not the quality, diversity and accessibility of the education achieved, but rather to serve the partial interests of private actors and political institutions who want to exhaust and replace existing public education with their own institutions. Because of the danger of further decommissioning of the public education system and the harmful consequences in the Left Group, we strongly oppose this motion for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Today we are discussing the proposal for a resolution on the recast of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering of Novo Mesto, submitted by Members and Members to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. By means of a proposal for a decree, the private higher education institution is transformed from a private institution to a public institution and the establishment is transferred from the Municipality of Novo Mesto and the Novo Mesto Centre to the Republic of Slovenia. Both of these founders are, as has been said, persons of public law. The Faculty of Industrial Engineering Novo mesto was established in 2009 at the initiative of the industrial partners of the lower region as a private independent higher education institution. The Institute of Higher Education has been established, has become recognizable, and is working successfully. Among the measures for the development of higher education in the Municipality of Novo mesto, the development strategy by 2030 adopted the position that Novo Mesto Municipality will promote the development of higher education institutions that will provide wider social needs in the area of higher education in the south-eastern region and seek to join the National Institute of Higher Education, the Public University of Nova Mesto. This public university will thus enable the intellectual development of the entire region. Students would stay in the region, get a job here, make a family and a career. The economy of south-eastern Slovenia is characterised by a high concentration of industry mainly in the vicinity of the New Town, which represents the development centre of the region itself. All economic indicators of the region, profitability, export orientation, added value to the employee point to an economically highly efficient region with a healthy industrial core on which its economic development is based. The economic sub-region of Dolenjska is the most active sub-region in which 2 economic centres are located, namely Novo mesto and Trebnje, and in the last period new ones appear in the area of municipality centres in the municipalities of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina. There are some of the most successful companies in the region, as well as all of Slovenia, such as Krka, Revoz, Adria Mobil, Ursa Slovenia, TPV, CGP, Trimo, Akrapovič and many others. GDP per capita is the second highest regional GDP in Slovenia, amounting to €23,000. Otherwise, it represents the gross domestic product of this region 7% of Slovenia's gross domestic product. The framework of the public university will thus allow for faster and better growth of individual institutions and thus a higher added value for the local community and wider. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the decree on the transformation of the independent higher education institution is only one of the steps to the University of Novo mesto, which is one of the most economically developed, export-oriented regions in Slovenia, which is why the Members of Nova Slovenije will definitely be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u80	Respectable. The decree on the transformation of the private higher education institution into a public institution was also proposed this time by a group of MPs and members of the coalition with the SDS party in charge. Just before the end of their term of office, coalition members under the SDS flag are taking another step towards the establishment of the Fourth University. The decree would transform the New Town Faculty of Industrial Engineering into a public institution and provide it with 1.6 million euros a year from the state budget. This is an unusual practice, which is obviously characteristic of this party, because also the first establishment of the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town 10 years ago we witnessed a similar story. Recently, however, the SDS coalition from private to public has also transformed the Higher Education for Rural Management of the Grm Novo mesto. We must not forget the failed and untapped attempt to amend the Higher Education Act, with which the higher education institutions should only meet the changed conditions when the second extension of accreditation is extended further, and not in the first, which would be in the interest of your new university, which is co-owner of Peter Jambrek and Rector of Matthew Avbelj. In mid-March this year, the government set up a new public research institute, Rudolfo Novo Mesto, and dedicated 5.2 million euros to it for the first two years of operation. The government has appointed its supporter, Borut Rončević, as the V.D. Director of the Institute. This was awarded a number of awards in the mandate of this government, namely a concession for media studies and journalism at the Faculty of Media, which is the dean, the seat of the President of the Supervisory Board in RTV, and now his membership will obviously be crowned with the realization of his project, which is the 4th University. And why did the establishment of a new public institution not propose a ministry responsible for education under the leadership of the Minister of the former SMC quota? And why is it that not all the members of this party are signed on the motion for a decree, but simply the signature of Gregor Perič? It is becoming increasingly clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only a collective body on paper, and in fact the Government is a len individual who sets the rules of the game for all others who oppose the national legal order. The government is 26 years old. 8. 2021 adopted a Decision on the intention to establish a fourth university in New Town, the transformation of FIN Novo mesto from private to public, and thus implements the intention of a government individual, although this is contrary to the adopted National Higher Education Programme for the period 2021-2030. The national programme preserves the current core of public universities, which can be complemented by concessionaires. We therefore wonder what the current system does not allow to be complemented by public interest, what research potential does the new university bring and, above all, what will be the financial implications of this establishment for existing universities. In the SAB, we have repeatedly opposed the inclusion of private individuals in the taxpayer's money, which is intended for public universities and a stable quality network of public education. If the decree is adopted today, this will amount to €1.6 million less for public education per year, as the applicant wants the funds already allocated to public education for the years 2022 and 2023 to be transferred to the pockets of former private persons. The ruling coalition therefore again wants to finance private institutions with public money and, under the cover of decentralisation and the burden of students, another SDS attack on public education is hidden. We are in favour of strong and quality public education in the SAB party, so we will never agree to their weakening without sound professional arguments. Is it really in the public interest of citizens and citizens to reach public money after years of efforts at right political options by individuals and private higher education institutions close to the largest coalition party? We will strongly oppose the motion for a decree in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft decree. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made today or tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY – OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION LAW, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic. Here you go. You have the floor. (You can do without a mask for a payphone.)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u82	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! After extensive and comprehensive public debate and in-depth inter-sectoral coordination, you have before you a new Law on Electronic Communications, or so-called ZEKom-2. The basic objective of this law is to transpose the European Directive or the so-called European Electronic Communications Code into our national legal order. The transposition of the Directive promotes the connectivity and use of high-capacity networks across Slovenia. It is also easier for consumers to switch service providers, which will be free from now on. It also provides affordable broadband access to the Internet, which will allow the use of a wide range of services for all consumers, regardless of their income or location. A system of public information and alarm is also in place. Thus, by sending warnings to citizens about their mobile phones in the event of natural and other disasters, we will be more effective in protecting their lives and property. At the same time, regulatory predictability and stability are increasing for operators, resulting in greater investment, especially in the area of 5G technologies. One of the key objectives of the proposal before you today is to accelerate the deployment of high-speed broadband networks. As you know, there are 108 000 households in Slovenia without broadband access to the Internet. That's unacceptable. With the proposed law, we will thus ensure greater coverage, inter alia, by German example, we will introduce the possibility of covering white foxes with high-speed satellite internet. In addition to all the other benefits mentioned above, ZEKON 2 will be given additional advantages in Slovenia. It will significantly strengthen the security of communications networks and services. This is particularly important because of the increased risks posed by 5G technology and the growing international situation. This will ensure security through the use of a set of European Union cyber security tools in the field of 5G technology. These tools are the result of joint efforts by Member States, as well as EU cyber security agencies and the European Commission. The Slovenian approach as embodied in this bill is extremely similar to the Belgian, Swedish, Finnish, Austrian and Spanish approach. Initial draft law at the general debate of the National Assembly on 4. 2. Unfortunately, it has not received sufficient support, but the debate has shown that there is broad agreement that the adoption of ZEKON 2 with some corrections in relation to the original version is urgently needed. The new bill amends those provisions that could have been improved in the light of the views expressed and proposals made during the parliamentary debate and, of course, those that we have received from the professional and other public. The government has proposed this law or its adoption by emergency procedure. This is why the security situation is so acute and thus the increased need to strengthen network and service security, which is dedicated to a specific chapter by ZEKON 2. We are also in a hurry to delay the transposition of the European Directive. It is today that the College of European Commissioners decides to bring an action against Slovenia and the other countries which have not yet transposed these European directives. It is therefore sad that today there is a proposal for an invitation to tender that the 43rd Members' proposal for an advisory referendum on the adoption of this law was tabled today. [[…]] The message sent by our opposition to Brussels and also to our citizens and citizens by this move is very welcome. The only way to avoid a conviction in Slovenia is by the fact that ZECOM 2 is today accepted in this esteemed National Assembly. The proposal for a referendum is, we can say, a mere conjecture and unnecessary delay that is damaging to our country, and especially to our citizens and citizens. As a result of this referendum proposal, our citizens will be deprived of the right to transfer the numbers to other operators free of charge, so that they will not be burdened by administrative and other costs when changing the package and so on. This proposal will also prevent faster coverage of households that do not have access to broadband today. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The law brings many benefits both for users and for operators and for the entire digital society. We have taken most of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service into account and I must say that cooperation with it has been exemplary. This bill is, of course, a compromise, not exactly a compromise for everyone, but this is something common in such a complex and far-reaching proposal, covering more than 320 articles. We are convinced that we have nevertheless prepared the best possible proposal for a law that will primarily benefit consumers, but also, of course, the economy and the development of a digital society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues have a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 69th emergency meeting. 4. The draft Law on Electronic Communications, submitted by the Government on 18 March 2022 to the National Assembly with a proposal for an emergency hearing, was addressed by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 134th session. 3. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. On the basis of the request made by the Group of Members and Members, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the draft law following an urgent procedure at its 99th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 31 December. 3. Adopted that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the representative of the digital transformation minister presented a proposal for a law and said that, after extensive and comprehensive public treatment and in-depth inter-departmental coordination, a proposal for a law whose main objective is to transpose the European Directive of the so-called European Electronic Communications Code. The transposition of this Directive promotes the connectivity and use of high-performing networks across Slovenia. It is easier for consumers to replace a service provider, which will be free of charge from now on, to provide affordable broadband access to the Internet, allowing the use of a wide range of services for all consumers regardless of their location or income. A system of public information and alarm is also established to alert citizens to their mobile phones in the event of natural disasters or other emergencies to protect their lives and assets more effectively and to ensure greater regulatory predictability for operators and, as a consequence, to increase the security of their investments, as authorisations for the use of radio spectrum for a wireless four-band network will be issued for 20 years, thus encouraging greater investments in the area of 5G connectivity in particular. It further touched on, inter alia, the coverage of white foxes with satellite internet and mentioned that the proposal for a law would significantly enhance the safety of communications networks and services, which is important, due to increased risks posed by 5G technology as well. During the presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supported the proposal for a law and said that further clarifications had been requested in the discussion, inter alia. In the debate, the Member of the Group of Members, Mr Marjan Šarca, said that he did not support the bill. Also from the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which has come forward, is in favour of this proposal for a law. From the Left Group, it was said that the bill was not supported. The Group of Social Democrats also said that the bill does not support that it is comprehensive and complex. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and, in particular, to all proposed amendments submitted to the members of the Committee, and therefore, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on all amendments, and also adopted them on all articles of the law together, namely, the vote on the bill itself was 10 votes in favour and 8 against. Thus, the following decision was taken, in view of the amendments adopted, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which was incorporated. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u85	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team, everyone have a good day. Today we are again considering the same government proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications as we discussed it two months ago. At that time, he had strong opposition and was rejected in the vote, but the government, by its usual custom, also insists this time. The concerns, inconsistencies and inadmissibility of the law are pointed out by many entities from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Information and Telecommunications Association to various providers and producers in the electronic communications market such as Telemach and Huawei and, last but not least, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. One of the key points we see in their opinions concerns provisions relating to the safety of networks and services. These allow for the arbitrary exclusion of a particular manufacturer from the market, which narrows down the possibility of operators to choose the best equipment for their users and de facto prohibit market entry for a particular existing manufacturer whose equipment is already used on the electronic and communication network, which would require significant investment in its replacement. Non-aligned Members believe that such arbitrary exceedance of the government and arbitrary exclusion of suppliers from our market poses great uncertainty and this will limit the development and construction of the network, business plans, hamper investment cycles and prevent operators from including all equipment manufacturers in the search for the best technological solutions for the network. We stress that due to the export attitude of the Slovenian economy and thus the dependence on balanced and clear rules of international business, the area must be given special care and care. [[Incomprehensible]] Free access to foreign markets is always crucial, and with today's proposal, the government is legislatively changing towards closing our economic and digital market, where potential investors will no longer feel welcome. Instead of checking, on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria, the actual adequacy of equipment and thus the safety of networks and services, the criteria used do not relate to the supplier itself but to his country of origin, irrespective of whether such circumstances actually affect the equipment and safety of the service or not. This is also contrary to the interests of our people, it is said to be users. It could even prohibit the presence of the world's largest telecommunications equipment manufacturer on the Slovenian market. Such a display of governmental indiscretions and indiscretions to the detriment of the Slovenian economy, especially today, for the economy of very unstable times, it would be good to make an end. And I believe this end is fast approaching. In accordance with the provisions of our Constitution, Slovenia should have the right to access all companies as investors, contractors or as providers of goods and services regardless of where they come from. However, compliance with competition rules, compliance with the legal and security rules laid down by national and European legislation to protect consumers and the environment and to ensure a level playing field that represents elements of economic and political sovereignty. This is also what we expect for our companies in any other foreign market. For all these reasons, I will, of course, oppose this group of unrelated Members of the proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. It is also a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Law on Electronic Communications, which is before us today, is urgently needed. It should be accepted because it transposes the European Directive and because Slovenia is at risk of major financial consequences in the event of non-admission of this law, so sanctions. On the other hand, the law is good. It is good for the user, it is good because it provides prices for many services. It is good because it makes the market predictable and services predictable and accessible to each user. Any transfer of numbers, anything that has been left to good will or not so much to anyone else, will, by law itself, be free and unlimited, allowing for a fast choice and exchange of tenderers, is said to be a free choice for each user. And here it will not be possible to put any obstacles to this free choice of user. For the consumer, this is certainly the most favourable solution for the ordinary citizen, and such a solution allows the market to operate with full lungs. However, competition in business, as we all know, is always healthy in the long run. In the law, it has set out much, which touches on faster development, faster accessibility of Slovenia in the area of internet or electronic services, and from this point of view, it is also a very good solution for the state money transaction to be co-financed only by the construction of fast networks, but not by the slower ones, which are no longer competitive in terms of all those services that modern people rightly expect when it comes to access to information when it comes to access to the Internet, and when it comes to accessibility to what we say today, especially among young people, a virtual part of life that will be more important in the lives of an individual, especially young people, in the coming years. However, security is also important in this respect, and these provisions are also covered by the law and are very appropriate. They enable action to be taken in cases where this would be strictly necessary to protect the interests of the consumer, to protect the security of the State and, in particular, to protect the security of the individual. Unfortunately, some market providers today are obviously abusing the situation of integrating into systems of solutions that allow spying for individuals, obtaining, unauthorised obtaining personal information, everything else, which is better not to talk here at this time. On the basis of this law, the Government will have the appropriate authority to exclude, in such a case, a tenderer who would attempt to abuse his position in any way or in that direction, to endanger the security of the State or of the individual, or otherwise to abuse his position on the market. And from this point of view, adequate security is also provided in advance. These are all the reasons why we will fully and uniformly support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u90	Given that we discussed this law on the Committee yesterday, where the Minister made it very clear what the advantages were, and today he repeated them again, but the main findings were that this law was not legal, not constitutional, but only determined in accordance with European regulations and that he would likely survive a number of opinions, the Minister was already in his introduction already apprehensive of the procedures which we Members have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by the way, legally, to enforce. Of course, he does not even know that this law will not be voted on today. That's why I'm not surprised we have such an illegal marriage. Who doesn't want more security in this country if not all of us? Who doesn't want the improvements and all the gains the Minister has announced in his address? However, all of this cannot and must not be an excuse for the illegal and unconstitutional conduct that this government and this minister are doing. Never and never in the name of welfare and candy, if you look on one side, we are giving you, we will improve the system, and of course we will do all of this illegally, there can be no excuse for calling us, asking us to accept of course and take responsibility. This Minister will not accept this, but Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And we have a responsibility, not this government. This government, of course, creates conditions for illegality. If anyone and when Slovenia cannot and does not wish to allow itself to impose and limit the free economic initiative set out in the Constitution. This government and this minister are doing just that with this law. With the excuse that those who manufacture hardware and sell it on the market like everyone else, those who are operators and will bear most of the responsibility with software, what will actually happen and here is this essential difference, just because this government has signed an agreement with Americans on who should be excluded from the market. In addition, she listed 100 good things that would justify accepting this illegal thing. Here's the problem. Dear Minister, we have a serious problem. If you are already doing illegal law, do not say that we are still working illegally, by law and by procedure. This law is not for a number of reasons. One is a violation of Articles 2, 22 and 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is particularly the case in Articles 115 and 116, as has been pointed out by the legislative service, for the illegal act referred to in Article 248, where they interfere with the independence of the Acos, an agency that controls telecommunications and, more importantly, violates the procedure and the non-compliance with the technical notification obligations of the European Commission of the European Union, their directives and the TBT regulations, and these are the main reasons why this law cannot survive today. [[Incomprehensible]] Of course, we will not support this law in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, there are no colleagues. Thanks for the words. The Law on Electronic Communications should be aligned long ago with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council introducing further revisions to the four Directives. Of course, we all agree here together, and if only the directives were to be transposed, this law could also be supported. However, we note from the proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications that the Ministry of Public Administration has already launched a broad debate in January 2019 and call on the professional and interested public to submit proposals or opinions and opinions to the published draft Law on Electronic Communications. Today, three years after a broad public debate, we find that both the interested public and the professional public are critical of the bill's proposal, since in the first government attempt in January and February 2022 the public has already pointed out individual legal solutions that are not in line with the directive and despite the adoption of Slovenia will not be able to avoid high penalties. In fact, the Ministry of Public Administration has failed to have a minimum common interest, in addition to the directive, to include in the legislative provisions those solutions that the Government considers necessary and would have a positive impact on the development of electronic communications in Slovenia. Having not decided in February that the law is suitable for further consideration, the Government, together with the coalition Members and Members and the satellites, shall resubmit the bill and this time by urgent procedure. On this March proposal, there is no less comment on the proposal than before, or we can say that there are almost more. We are opposed to the fact that, under the pretext of implementing the directive, the Government is interfering with the regulatory authority by taking away its independence and setting out the extent and content of its obligation to intervene in the discharge of the Director, the regulatory authority and could also list it. If, in the first Proposal of the Law of 22. 12. 2021 The Government has written down, quote: "In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, the State may not adopt a regulation within a period of three months from receipt by the European Commission of a notification message. During this period, the European Commission and other Member States may comment on the draft." Now the government is passing this smoothly and is referring to a new situation in the area of cybersecurity. We asked the Minister to answer at least one question related to the results of the European Commission's technical notification procedure, but we did not get any answers on the Committee, nor did the Minister come forward after the introductory explanation. Respectable, we absolutely need the Law on Electronic Communications, in line with the European legal order. However, the bill before us still raises many questions and there are many unconstitutional matters. Slovenia or the Government has been warned by the European Commission to regulate the draft law by complying with the European acquis but has not done so. Therefore, the Social Democrats will not support or co-sign a request for an advisory referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon. First of all, it should be pointed out that practically the same law was rejected by Members two months ago at a regular meeting of the National Assembly. Now he's trying to get the government to bring the law under the roof right before the elections. In Levi, we believe that the adoption of such an extensive and important system law, which so comprehensively interferes with the functioning of the Communications Networks Agency, which raises so many questions about the regulation of data flow and the consequent danger that comes with it, is unacceptable under the urgent procedure and is already opposed by the way in which it is received itself. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made 20 pages of comments on the proposal for a law, indicating, of course, that the law is not well prepared enough and is not suitable for adoption after a rapid procedure at all. However, if, on a procedural basis, any amendments are made, either at a meeting of the Committee or in this case at a meeting of the National Assembly, these, of course, cannot be reviewed and identified in a rapid manner. Again, I would like to stress, in particular, not in the case of such an important roofing marriage. And a few more words about the content of the law and the issue of ensuring access to the Internet. The task of the State is to ensure that all citizens have the opportunity to have adequate broadband access. We still have too many gray foxes when people do not have adequate access to the world's web. This, for example, was shown in a particularly brutal light during the epidemic, when people were unable to jump into the work process through work at home, or worse, students and students, students and students into the learning process. So far, the state has not done enough. In crisis situations, this developmental inequality is best demonstrated, and we therefore hope in Levica that regulation will not only be a dead end on paper. The country must invest actively in building a broadband network across Slovenia. The right to access the world's Internet is now essential. The right to access the world's Internet must be universal. I hope to take a step further into the Constitution, if you will. And it must be accessible, from the public service provider, not the "business opportunity of a handful of resourceful managers" to make millions of profits per year, of course on the shoulders of working people, who for this day urgently need 50, 100 or as much as EUR of hard-earned money. So, public and accessible, or if I use the dictionary Left: broadband Internet for everyone, not just for a handful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The aim of the law is to regulate the more efficient use of radio spectrum, to promote investment in high-quality and high-quality networks, to ensure network and service safety, including through increased risks posed by 5G technology in providing these networks and services to entities that provide so-called critical services, consumer protection and improved access to services, and to protect lives through access to emergency communications numbers. The universal service provides a transmission speed that enables the use of a wide range of services, such as e-government, online banking and video calls. Directive 2018/1972EU shall be implemented in the national legal order. At the end of December 2018, the adopted Directive amends the existing EU regulatory framework for electronic communications. At the same time, by aligning with the provision and the directive, it is proposed to improve existing legislation in the workplace when national provisions are concerned or if it is possible to ensure a clearer and more appropriate way of transposing EU rules. At the same time, the section on the safety of networks and services, as well as the operation of the threat situation, provides for the implementation, in particular the strategic measures contained in the EU cybersecurity toolkit of 5G, which is the result of the joint efforts and accession of EU Member States, representatives of the EU cyber security agency and the European Commission, which is also supported by the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] In line with the objectives of the Directive, an additional objective on connectivity is laid down, namely access to and use of very high-capacity networks for all citizens and businesses in the EU. In the area of the protection of cyber security of 5G networks, which is of strategic importance for Slovenia and the EU, the operator shall not use a strictly limited set of equipment, a high-risk supplier, provided that they are identified by the Government on the basis of a prescribed procedure and criteria as such, in the opinion of the National Security Council and on the basis of the information security authority. The safety of networks and services is and will be increasingly important in a digitised society, so security must be as optimal as possible. In New Slovenia we support the proposal for a law aimed at transposition of the directive into the national legal order. We also support the objectives of the law, which go towards greater security, in particular communication networks and services, which are also linked to the establishment of 5G technology. In particular, we need to strengthen the security of all those entities that provide critical services from the point of view of the state and society, which is also relevant in the final stage for national security. The purpose of the law is also to promote the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country. It is important to make access to high-capacity networks as widely as possible for citizens and businesses under strict safety conditions. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that users of disabled persons and users with special social needs have also been included in the law. At the same time, better protection of rights is ensured for all users. The transfer of the number to another operator will be completely free of charge from now on. Members of New Slovenia support the proposal of the law because the bill is prepared to the extent of users, the law follows their benefits. The law does not pursue the benefits of international corporations and their lobbyists. It is also likely that there are some criticisms because the law brings benefits to users, operators, society as a whole. Since the law promotes and enables the building of high-capacity networks and better coverage of people with mobile and fixed networks. Since the tightening of geopolitical conditions, the law significantly strengthens the security of networks and services, which is crucial in the case of cyber attacks. Last but not least, since it is also necessary for Slovenia to avoid paying a high fine, due to the delay in transposing the European Directive, which, unfortunately, we will not be able to avoid because of the proposal for an advisory referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u98	Dear Minister, Honourable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us the proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications in general, in terms of the transposition of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order for a new law, as it follows in particular the changes introduced by the European Directive in this area. However, from the point of view of government laws, it is unfortunately an old law, although his predecessor was voted unfit for further consideration in February, the Government sent a practically identical law to the National Assembly with some cosmetic editorial corrections. An important difference is also in the proposal to deal with the law, as this time the government has proposed an urgent procedure for it. Given the scope of the law, we find this more than unacceptable. As the applicant points out, the basic objective of the law's transposition of the directive is also to strengthen security on the basis of the legal provisions, particularly due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology. The law will also allow more efficient use of radio spectrum to protect consumers and improve access to services. Some provisions also relate to the taking-up of the tasks of the Information Security Office of the Government. In the SAB, we are aware that the deadline for transposition of the directive has already expired and that the early implementation of the directive is essential to avoid sanctions by the European Commission. However, we cannot go beyond the comments that the stakeholders have reiterated this time. According to them, the new proposal is as old as it was in some parts contrary to the directive and even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services thus first points out that certain provisions of the proposal have a fundamental impact on the competence and independence of its operation. It is a body which, by its actions, intervenes in the functioning of stakeholders and, consequently, also in the operation of enterprises owned by a majority of the state. The independence and independence of regulators also underlines the European acquis. In this way, the influence of each political power is prevented in order to achieve private interests through the regulator. It is important for a party to SAB to ensure, in the first place, the quality of the public service by companies owned by a majority of the state, while profit-making must remain secondary and supervisory agencies must also maintain their independence, since they can only ensure that the area for which they are established is subject to adequate supervision. The corrections can be illustrated in concrete terms by the amendment of Articles 114 and 115, which regulate additional safety requirements and identify a high-risk supplier and which has already received a number of comments for the first time. The criteria for determining high-risk suppliers are, in the opinion of some stakeholders, too vague and consequently contrary to the Constitution. Such setting of criteria according to their words also constitutes an intervention in the free economic initiative referred to in Article 74 of the bet, since such economic operators will be prevented from accessing the market. Operators will consequently have fewer options to choose the best equipment for their users. Although the envisaged ban on the use of equipment provided for the provision of networks only for certain categories of customers, such arrangements will make it totally impossible for these entities to access the market as operators are unlikely to build separate infrastructure for different categories of customers. Of course, security aspects must be taken into account in this regard, so in the SAB we wonder whether the definition of high-risk suppliers could be achieved by the Directive of the required safety standards. And what did the government do? Did she hear warnings and concerns? In what way did she take the opposite? No, no, no. In 114th and 115th. The article thus did not change the substance of the article only by amending entry number 1 instead of the figure by word. We join the warnings that it is not only a timely transposition of the Directive into the national legal order; it is also important that the Directive is properly implemented. In the SAB Group, we have already expressed our conviction in the general debate on the law that the text of the law should be adapted in the future stages of the legislative procedure, in accordance with the stakeholders' comments. The government had everything in their hands and could have done it, but it didn't. Members of the SAB Group are therefore still unable to give their support to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u100	Thank you again for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister and to the present! At the end of December 2018, a Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code was adopted amending the existing European Union regulatory framework for electronic communications by 21 December 2020. The adoption of the law is crucial to avoiding any financial consequences in the form of a financial penalty by the European Commission due to the delay in the transposition of this Directive, but what is essential. The bill before us today follows the objectives of promoting the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country, including the development of an information society. In tight geopolitical conditions, the issue of security is of paramount importance. The proposal for a law strengthens the safety requirements and conditions of networks and services in the light of the security risks posed by the new 5G technology, in particular in providing security to entities which, from the point of view of the State and society, provide so-called critical services which are also relevant for national security. Operators will therefore have to take appropriate risk management measures, improve measures on a regular basis and inform the relevant authorities of security incidents. Security will also be ensured through the implementation of measures contained in the European Union cybersecurity toolkit. The law also follows the objective of ensuring effective competition in the electronic communications market and the effective use of radio spectrum and numbering elements. The law also brings a number of benefits to consumers or details the rights of users of services, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs and the right to communication privacy of users of public communications services. Among other things, it is easier for the consumer to replace the service provider, which will be free from now on. Greater transparency of information on services offered by operators is ensured. In the context of universal service provision, consumers throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia are provided with a affordable transfer to a speed allowing the use of a wide range of services. The proposed legislative solutions seek to promote investment and to ensure access to high-quality and high-quality networks with new or renewed symmetrical regulation measures, while allowing operators easier access to network capacity. We believe that we can all agree that in today's digitalisation age, all changes from us also require modernisation of a number of processes, which follows, and that the proposal for an electronic communication law is needed, and that is why we will support it in the Group in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Electronic Communications, which was adopted in 2004, transposed into the Slovenian legal order the provisions of the Directives of the European Union which deal substantively with this area. The first National Law on Electronic Communications has fully regulated their regulatory structure, which is still under the umbrella of the law in this area today. The current law lays down, inter alia, the conditions for the provision of electronic communications networks and for the provision of electronic communications services, the provision of universal service, the management of radio spectrum, the use of numerical space. It also regulates the rights of users, the conditions of operation of networks and services, the requirements for the protection of the confidentiality of electronic communications, lays down rules for the resolution of disputes between operators on the market and the competences, the organisation and functioning of the Communications Networks and Services Agency as an independent regulatory authority. A good nine years ago, a new Law on Electronic Communications entered into force, and it transposed into national law the provisions of all European Union directives from the regulatory framework, this time with amendments and reforms. However, the last novelty of 2017 was supplemented by the transposition of the Directive of the European Union on measures to reduce costs for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. These amendments are so extensive that they require the adoption of a new law. At the end of 2018, the European Union Directive on the European Electronic Communications Code entered into force. The deadline for transposition of this Directive into national legislation was set at two years, which means that it expired on 21 December 2020. The fundamental objective set out by the proposer is therefore to transpose the Directive. This also restores at national level the solutions that have been passed on in the past through the implementation of the four European directives. Furthermore, the proposal pursues the objective of enhancing security, in particular public communications networks and services, also due to the increased risks posed by 5G technology. According to some forecasts, the 5G network is expected to have more than a billion 700 million subscribers by 2025. The technology of the fifth generation has already become widely known among Slovenian users, and more and more devices are emerging in the market to support this type of technology. Therefore, it is all the more important to ensure security, including for entities which, from the point of view of the state and society, provide so-called critical services which are of particular importance to national security. The adoption of this law will, in particular, implement the strategic measures set out in the European Union cybersecurity toolkit for 5G technology. This selection was also supported by the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal defines the purpose of the law as promoting the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia. Their level of development and their level of application are indispensable structural elements of each country's competitive advantages in the global economy, as well as ours. Furthermore, the purpose of the law is to ensure effective competition in the electronic communications market, the effective use of radio spectrum and numbering elements, universal services and the protection of user rights, including users with disabilities and users with special social needs. Special emphasis is thus placed on the care of groups deprived of access to electronic communications due to social status or disability and the right to the communication privacy of users of public communications services. The rules on the security of networks and services are being stepped up and strengthened, particularly in the light of the management of the risks posed by new technologies. Members of the DeSUS Group will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting an amendment to Articles 115 and 116 into the debate. The amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 115 is linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 116 and will be discussed together. I therefore put to the debate 115th and 116th amendments of the LMŠ Group. Anybody want a word? Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, it's just one piece of evidence of what nonsense of course - for the government, of course, it makes sense because it wanted to achieve something with it - it brings this law. Of course, paragraphs 115 and 116, I will talk about both of them together, as the Vice-President has proposed, because, of course, they are meaningfully linked, essentially dependent on each other, there is in fact only one evidence where we are also talking about the only European country where, of course, the guidance or opinion on the adequacy of equipment will be given by the SNAV or the National Security Council. Nowhere in Europe, in no European country will you meet this, just us, where the government has just felt the need to do this to this SNAV. Now, of course, you know who SNAV is ambushing, don't you? The SNAV consists of most people who are politicians and do not generally have any idea about the subject. And of course they will give direction, what is right and what is wrong. Now the substance of the amendment that we have tabled in this article is, of course, the following. In particular, we change the part where the government says that, since the placement is practically linked and is linked to the same sentences in relation to the EU certification itself, first in the general clause of this paragraph, Article 115 is said, and then, of course, between the evaluation criteria in Article 116, paragraph 6, and thus causes a huge confusion as to the purpose, effect and the precise interpretations, in particular, of the inclusion of certification among the criteria that can be reduced to only one of the seven factors to be taken into account in the provision, are these companies or those providers which will be assessed worse due to certification itself. This means, for example, assessing equipment and practices by the European Union body, and in particular for suppliers will result in less transparency as regards the adequacy of the equipment used, as it will deter suppliers from carrying out the required certification process if it does not have a positive impact on the final result of the admissibility of use in critical systems. In practice, this will also mean that fully secure, certified and appropriate equipment in the EU could not be used on the network if the government decided to negatively assess other more subjective criteria. The text and the explanation are extremely complicated for those who do not know of course what is behind it. Now I'm gonna do my homework. We have, in this Article, 116., certain criteria that are, inter alia, strong links between the supplier and the government of a particular third country, then the third country's legislation in the field of security or data protection that allows for government interference, the untransparent ownership structure of the supplier undertaking, then the ability of the third country to exert pressure on supplier's business decisions, the ability of the supplier to provide supplies in tight economic conditions, the overall quality of the products and the practice of suppliers in the area of cyber security and, of course, the transparency of the supplier with regard to data processing. In 115th Article, of course, we are talking about 7 conditions which, of course, the operator or the tenderer must, I apologize, in this case, meet the operator for coming on his own, I will say, a tender where our country could choose him as, I will say, one of those who will offer certain equipment. However, the problem is in 116th article, which of course speaks of the fact that, in fact, these 7 criteria no longer apply, because they are practically limited to only 4 criteria or even excludes, for example, certification, which is one of the grounds that applies to the whole of Europe, where it essentially stops, I will say, certification of all equipment, but this is not enough for our government and will, of course, expel all providers in advance, because in fact, you know, certification is extremely expensive and nobody will go to work if they do not know that it can be one of the criteria and criteria on which it will be selected. But our government, of course in this case SNAV, because we know how SNAV is made up, and then, of course, the one who will lead this tender will simply decide for some third reason. And of course we have the reasons then here, which I have previously counted, and will, of course, eliminate them on that basis. This speaks only of what they really want to do, to make a complete mess in this area in a way that will be as easy and as narrow the criteria as possible on the criteria that will suit them, which is, of course, to eliminate, I will say, the provider. And of course that's just one more piece of evidence that we're going to some holy war based on some kind of arrangement, so and counting on how we're going to serve someone, because right now someone who's just sitting in this government has decided that they want to have these levers. I sincerely hope that, of course, this law will not go away with anything we say, I will say positive, especially because today some praise what this law brings. And hand to heart, there are quite a few things in there that I would like to sign off on and support with joy, but not on the basis of this discrimination, the restriction of the free economic initiative, the violation of the Constitution and more, the European rules that all members of the European Union agree on in this space. And that is what, of course, we will never support and we cannot support. We have tabled an amendment, of course, with the hope that this government will hear at least some part of it. But you know, at the outset, the minister said that there was a broad debate that there was an interdepartmental debate. Interdepartmental treatment is something completely logical and normal completely in every marriage and is nothing special. But he doesn't say these things flew in last minute. That two years ago, it wasn't even there. And that's why these 115th and 116ths are, not to mention the other articles, unfortunately we couldn't table the amendments because they were closed, and of course they can't stop, they can't stop, but you know. That is, it reminds me of about all the laws that we have already adopted in this National Assembly in exactly the same way. But you know, we have a lot of stuff that's right, that's good, and then we have three bad things, and then the minister says it's a compromise. Really? Who's it with? Who's that for? With us? It's no compromise with us. Perhaps the minister has accepted a certain compromise with himself, or I don't know where, in what way, but he has agreed to this game. And this game, of course, is primarily unconstitutional and illegal. And this has to be repeated all the time. But you know, I'm happy to say that I'm giving someone something, and I'm not really giving him anything, but I'm fixing something that should already be arranged. It is more than clear that this cannot be an argument because, I will say, non-discrimination or discrimination is still guaranteed in this law and, above all, there is a limited free economic initiative in advance. And now, out loud, what some people don't want to say. The fact is that it wants to limit itself to the largest equipment manufacturer in this area, has the greatest development and more importantly, it is clear that they will have a hard time playing against this player in this market. Of course it is not the problem of Slovenia, Slovenia is small, Slovenia will not do any serious harm to this manufacturer. But somewhere we need to start, and we need to do a favor to the Americans that we've made a commitment to an agreement, an international agreement, an agreement between the two bilaterally, it's called an agreement on how we're going to restrict these kinds of societies. And here, in 115th and 116th, there is one practical proof of how this is done and how these providers will be discriminated against on the market and, at the same time, indirectly, those operators who have this software, I apologize, the technical communication equipment. So that I am personally satisfied that we will not even vote on this law today, I hope that some will cool down, think about where to fix it, and I continue to repeat that if the Government and the Minister followed the directive and transposed this directive, as it was offered by the EU, we would probably not be discussing it at all today, but it would probably have been on the agenda of the previous week, and it has also been adopted and would probably have ended today. You are, of course, counting on Parliament's non-responsibility. In this House today, we have six, seven Members, including the Vice-President, and you expect that there is no particular interest. Of course, there is an excusable reason, excuseable in the recitals, of course, that we are before the elections and that there are three quarters of Members on the ground looking for their votes. But such laws are harmful for the Republic of Slovenia, not least for the reputation in the world that we make and do discrimination and most importantly is illegal, according to the acts we have set ourselves in this Chamber. I myself call on colleagues and colleagues to accept such an amendment to at least correct the impression that we are not restricting the free economic initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My friend Möderndorfer, I understand these findings of your unconstitutionality, of illegality. Only to the unconstitutional response, non-constitutionality is the submission of a request for an opinion at the Constitutional Court not for a referendum because the referendum does not decide on it. Anyone else want a word? Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u106	Although I don't know, Vice President, whether you signed up for the debate or whether this is your component to comment on my debate just as little from the position of Vice-President, but I am questioning that you have this option because you will always answer me to explain something, but I will answer. Members and Members of the National Assembly may at any time be spoken in this country, in this Parliament, and we say certain things that are illegal and what is unconstitutional. However, who will make that decision has not earned the right because, unlike you, we respect the rule of law and we know who decides. However, as always, given that you know the Rules of Procedure and the laws of the pillars by step, all step by step. I am sure that in the future, if this law is to be declared, it will be found in the Constitutional Court for sure. As for the referendum, the consultative, vice-president, we are indeed the last to discuss what this coalition is all about at the time of the opposition and as a coalition, so don't let me teach the Levite about when a matter is underway. It is legally filed, if it is not, you will go to the Rules of Procedure Commission, which you like to refer to and mention when something is wrong with the procedure or you have another option. You can go to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly and enforce and warn about what was illegal and what was not. I didn't hear you correctly. Was it filed incorrectly?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I was just explaining. If the main indications are that the law before us is illegal or unconstitutional, it is either an opinion or a suspicion or a doubt of a Member, a Member group or anyone. It is the Constitutional Court's decision, not as you took the discretionary right to decide that it was unconstitutional. That's why I warned you. Also because of the viewers, because of those who see the session, the Constitutional Court decides on you. And if you want to verify the constitutionality of the law, then you have to apply to the Constitutional Court. But what you have invested has nothing to do with whether people will judge constitutionality or unconstitutionality. It's something they decide at the referendum, something else, not that. Because people do not have this mandate to decide whether or not the law is constitutional. Here you go. You have the floor. For a procedural subject matter or for discussion? [[It's a debate.]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u108	Vice President, you like to repeat my words, of course with a different intention and a different interpretation. Once again, because it looks like we didn't get along well, even though I believe that you've understood me very well and I'd like to repeat my claim or my point of view. Members and Members may raise doubts or debates about whether something is illegal or unconstitutional or not in accordance with the European acquis, at any time and at any time. You know that Article 82 of the Constitution prohibits anyone from ordering a Member to discuss or decide. But as for verification, once again, don't lecture us and teach us who decides whether something is unconstitutional or not. Since I have already made it very clear in my previous debate that, unlike you, we respect the rule of law and know that this is the Constitutional Court. As far as the consultation referendum is concerned, once again: you have not listed a Article of the Rules of Procedure, nor any other obstacle, whether it has been lodged illegally or not. I don't know what you're trying to accomplish with your explanation, with your lesson, especially since you're mentioning to viewers that the viewers or those who accompany this session are going to create their own opinion. I agree. And we're the only ones on the same spot.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I didn't have a problem with you filing a request for a referendum. Only logically on the evidence you had in the debate is a requirement for constitutional review, not a referendum. I am talking about logic, purely about the action taken, which should follow the debate. Otherwise, look, I didn't even talk about whether your request was filed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, because it is, because no one objects. But all I've said is that people know that when it comes to unconstitutionality or illegality, it is necessary to direct this request to the Constitutional Court, not to the people. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u110	I'll be very brief, Vice President. Once again, I'm going to say, "Let's leave logic to others." Those who follow this see where the floor is. You want to present your point of view, you want to explain where the logic is and so on. And I, unlike you, do not respect logic, but respect legality and the Rules of Procedure. And for once, that's all I hold on to. That's what's important to me. The rest is pleonazem, the speech you want in the void, I don't know what you're trying to do with it. But like I said, I'll be shorter than I used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I didn't say anything wrong, just facts. And that is the case everywhere when a matter is brought before the Constitutional Court, who decides whether the matter is constitutional or not. The rest is pleonasm when you talk about it, it's pleonasm, when you talk about the obvious, when you focus on unconstitutionality and illegality, and when you decide on people who don't make decisions about it. But in principle, it's the law, not the constitutionality and the legality. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u112	Yeah, we're targeting people. You said it right, and the People's Law on Human Initiative is very clear and let people decide. Of course, they will say what they think about it because it is the Constitutional Court's consultative referendum and it will say whether it is constitutional or not when it comes to it. I'm not all-knowing and all-knowing as opposed to you, so I'm gonna make a dot here.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u113	Good. Thank you for finishing. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u114	Thank you very much, chairman. First, let me say that the proposal for a law before you today is neither unconstitutional nor illegal nor contrary to the European Directive. On the contrary. I believe Mr Möderndorfer is aware that the law is prepared in accordance with constitutional, legal principles to fully follow the European Directive and the European recommendations on security, networks and services. I believe that Mr Möderndorfer also knows well that the amendment which has been tabled is contrary to the European recommendations which are binding on all Member States. As stated, the provisions relating to the security network and services are no Slovenian specialty. They follow fully the European recommendations in this area, which are not only consensus or which are not only coordinated between Member States, but also with the European Commission and the European cyber security institutions. As I said at the outset, they have such a similar model or model in many other countries, I have mentioned Spain, Finland, and so on it is a European model that we want to put into our legal order by means of this proposal. Because your proposal is contrary to European guidelines, of course, we oppose it. However, if it were to be explained or perhaps not necessary to go into excessive detail, it was to replace the strategic criteria with purely technical criteria when assessing potential suppliers with high risk that is, of course, unacceptable not only in terms of logic but, as I said, European guidelines in this area that apply to all Member States. Now it has been heard that several comments have been made on the notification and all the other things that disturb the opposition in this bill. Let me say that the notification of the European Commission has been successfully carried out in such a way that there are no obstacles to the adoption of this law in this respect. I can also say that we have been very exemplary in working with the Legislative and Legal Service. After all, we have taken into account most of their comments on this bill, and I must say that our team has worked very hard to make today a proposal that is in line with most of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. We have also introduced several other corrections in the area of security, networks and services. Here we have ensured greater legal transparency and predictability for all potential high-risk providers. They will need to be included in the process of identifying such suppliers. They will also have the opportunity to comment on the full documentation that will serve as a basis for such decision-making. In short, a significant shift and compromise have been made here. Finally, let me mention that we have extended the number of criteria to be met in order for a particular supplier to be designated as a high-risk supplier. In short, we took into account a number of comments that came from different sides. On the one hand, the economy, on the other hand, on the side of the debate that we had here two months ago in the National Assembly, so that it is by no means the same law that was rejected at the time. I believe that all Members and Members are also well aware of this. I would just like to comment on the implementation of the left-wing Member, who has devoted most of his speech to the urgency of the Internet as quickly as possible for everyone. Well, this is exactly what this bill brings to Slovenian citizens and citizens, if it is accepted, all citizens, regardless of where they live and what their incomes are, will have access to the fast Internet throughout Slovenia, such an internet that will provide them with all the key digital services, let it be online banking, online public administration services, communication and so on, all at an affordable price. In short, this is the greatest advantage offered by the proposal of this law. That's why I really don't understand my colleagues from the Left that they're so scrupulously opposed to him. I have never and never talked about the content of this law with anyone outside this dear country, nor with the Americans, nor with anyone else. That's why I strongly reject such instigation, whether I wrote this law or that we wrote it by the American line. On the contrary, I hope to say that the opponents of this law, to my regret and unfortunately for all citizens, put the interests of international corporations and their lobbyists before the interests of their own country and its citizens. Thus, all the charges that have been made today are strongly rejected. Once again, it is a proposal for a regulation that is extremely balanced, which is an expert, which is constitutional, which is legal and which is fully in line with the rules of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u116	Vice-President, you will agree with me that there has been very little talk about Articles 15 and 16. However, I must respond to the part of the debate held by the Minister, given that we are only discussing these two amendments or these two articles. I'll start at the back. You know, Minister, isn't it true that the President of the Government, the Foreign Minister, spoke to the Americans, because you didn't have to, you got the job you had to carry out. No one's telling you that you talked to anyone, at least I never said it myself, but I told you this government was talking. But it is true that ministers are members of the government and this is a collective body. That's just to explain when you're talking about who was talking to who. Secondly, the suggestion that Members of Parliament or the work of Members of large corporations are more important than the state, security or people is shameless. Please don't let this happen, because you'll have to have evidence for this before you accuse people. You know, because for my own safety, I'm gonna have to take care of myself and arrange to talk to you about who's right and who's wrong. And I suggest that until you have 100 percent in hand or proof of that, you do not discredit your interlocutors in this way. I didn't. I told you that this government spoke and signed an agreement with the Americans publicly in Bled, in front of everyone; what it says, we all know. And the result was here in this law, which was never before in public debate. Now we are going to a crucial point, and this is the debate on these two articles. You mentioned the country because you didn't want to explain in more detail because you said you didn't have to, because you don't have to, because you don't care anymore, because you're so sure it's going to be accepted and how it's going to be right. You also referred to Finland as a country that has adopted this legislation in the same way. Tell me why Finland actually handled these issues a little differently. By contrast, Finland provides for the prohibition of specific communication network devices on critical parts of the network, which is also determined by the characteristics of the equipment and on the basis of the characteristics of the supplier. [[…]] As opposed to the essential impact we have had on critical elements. On the contrary, I apologize, rather than having critical elements, we suddenly have a significant impact as a priority on how we will assess. And that's what I'm talking about. The Finnish model doesn't have it, as you say. I'll wait a minute or two for the counselors to tell you what it really says, so you won't mention Finland. And here's the essential difference that we're talking about. But the fact is that no country, and once again I say out loud, no EU Member State has its own national security councils as a basis, a basis that will guide what is right and what is wrong. In our country, we have defined this as the most professional size to determine the safety of this equipment. And I am sorry that because of this government's strong predominance, I will say this military mentality, because we fear the devil's cross of breadth and, of course, that we must bring it to such a level instead of putting it into the hands of a profession that knows that, as other members of the European Union have done. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what's most important to me. I really suggest you, Minister, don't make any accusations. It's not worth it. It's really not worth it. It's not my style, I never do it. But you have to understand that I will also protect my credibility. You know, you've tried to pin a lot of things on me in this National Assembly. First the liquor industry, then the tobacco industry. Now you're gonna tape me up, I don't know, Huawei by accident or what? Here, I have Huawei's technology. Maybe that's why I bought the phone. Maybe that's the reason. Please, Minister, not to this level.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Now, colleague Möderndorfer, I would just like to point out that in conclusion, the Minister has discussed the position of the Levica Group not you. So you've pointed the debate elsewhere in a certain part. I also propose that we focus on the debate on the amendment. Minister, did you want a word? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u118	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Of course, Mr Möderndorfer, I have nothing against you or Huawei or any other technology company. This company is not, after all, mentioned in this proposal for a law, so I think that rhetoric is slightly misleading. However, I am in the hands of a European high-risk supplier organisation, where the key actions that are concluded at European Union level are summarised. And show me one provision of the bill, which is in any way contrary to the European toolbox or a list of measures in this area. Let me help you. You won't find him. Once again, the model we are introducing is very similar to the model they have in Belgium, Sweden, Finland, Austria and Spain. Now if something is so wrong with us, then something must be very wrong with all these countries. And I don't think that, no offense, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u120	If we are talking about a European directive, it is more than clear in itself, Minister, that under the European Directive countries have similar issues – those that have already adopted or regulated this, of course. Some countries are as late as we are. That doesn't mean they have the same. I have previously given you a concrete proposal on how Finland has this arranged, because you referred to Finland. And we don't have as much order as Finland. But we do have a similar one. But we have the key in that part, and that's essential. We don't have to mention who we're gonna rule out. I don't know, but unlike you, I'm not gonna count the companies, because we're all talking about just one. I could be wrong, because the operators are still here, and I don't know who else. But there are criteria at the principal level. And so it is in the invitation. We should never mention in the invitation which company has been eliminated, should we? However, we can set criteria by disqualifying some already in advance. I told you the case in 115th and 116th, where is the main problem with these criteria? It is not seven criteria relevant, but you have written in the article so that even if it does meet the criteria, there will be one enough for you, which is not in fact the most important and, I will say, the critical one which, of course, has been agreed by all the members of the European Directive, which should be and how should be regulated that someone can fit in the tender. That's what we're talking about. It's not the same, it's not the same, it's not the same. These are essential differences, very similar words, and essential differences. Therefore, it does not consider selling the story “likely arranged by Belgium” and then counting the countries. We're different. We're also different about who's judging and giving guidance on this. We're the only ones who've authorized the National Security Council, please?Oh, my God! Only because we are talking about defence or security criteria do we have an immediate National Security Council with us. However, we both know that these security moments can be very clearly foreseen by the profession, proposed to the politicians, and then in a reasonable way, of course, it is also acceptable and logical that it will act. We all want to be safe. Finally, I have already said more than clearly several times, all operators, all suppliers of equipment want to have order and clarity on the market so that everyone can have equal access. But we have decided to exclude some, even for political reasons. I'm sorry, Minister, but you weren't a minister when they talked about these things and decided how they were going to drive. Maybe you honestly believe that because you know what you've been doing yourself, that you're doing well and that your purpose is good. But if you read these articles carefully, you will see that you have all the tools that you will be able to get out of your supplies and those that have been operating in the Slovenian space for years and to date we have never had any comments over them, but the prestray is always present. It is normal to protect where necessary in our field, but not in this way. Not the way to disqualify someone in advance. That's what I'm talking about. So you don't have to convince me to respect anything, and where you have a document in your hand, because all of this is available today in digital society, given that it's public documents, especially with professional assistance, we can get all of this. We know what we're writing, what we're proposing and what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today or tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PROMOTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR DARS D. D. For the purposes of credits and debt securities leased in respect of those issued for the financing of motorway projects up to EUR 392.44 million in the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u122	Mr Vice President, Members, Members and other guests invited! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities on loans and debt securities leased or issued to finance important road projects. The guarantee is proposed at EUR 392.44 million and is foreseen for the following projects, which are fully financed and built by Dars. This is the section Šentrupert – Velenje south, on the northern part of the third development axis, this is the section from the connection of the Osredek to the connection of the Malina on the southern part of the third development axis, the state road Gorišnica – Ormož and the road Markovci – Gorišnica and the expansion of the highway section Kosesa – Kozarje to the six-passenger section. All these projects are technically and financially mature to be implemented. Spatial acts and approved investment programmes are adopted. Only implementation is needed, but without bank loans it will not be possible. Dars will be able to obtain funds precisely from the State guarantee, which also means significantly more favourable funding conditions. The State guarantee is granted only up to 50 % of the investment value of projects, which is in line with Eurostat rules and means that the guarantee granted will not affect the statistical classification of Dars. The remaining 50% of the funds will be provided by Dars without any guarantee. As you know, this is not the first state guarantee given to Dars. So far, a number of guarantees have been granted to this company, which have enabled the construction of the highway network and the possibility that Dars has undertaken all his duties on his own. Only through the budgetary resources of these investments could it be financed. The last guarantee law was adopted at the end of 2019 and provided funding for an important part of the third development axis in the north and south. The financing of the third development axis is also now on the table, but it is about to continue the work already started, which will lead to this important development link almost to the end. I would like to point out that the guarantee is a potential obligation that will potentially burden the state budget only if Dars cannot fulfil his obligations. Since the establishment of Dars in 1993, so far, they have never been cashed even at the level of a guarantee cent, indicating that Dars has settled all his obligations on a liquid basis. Let me add that the public authorities are closely monitoring Dars' business, its financial situation, its debt situation, so that there is virtually no risk of cashing out the guarantee. In order to ensure the liquidity of the company and its ability to repay the debts, the State shall also cancel dividends from profits that would otherwise belong to the owner. During last year, much has been done on future motorway projects, especially on the third development axis. At the end of the year, investment programmes were also completed. I am pleased that this law will make an important contribution to the connectivity of Slovenia. In addition to progress on the third development axis, an important step will be taken towards the construction of the necessary roads in the Podrav region, and we are also solving major problems of traffic flow in the surroundings of Ljubljana. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 72nd urgent meeting on 1 April this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for DARS liabilities, on credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance motorway projects of up to EUR 392,44 million, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. At its 134th meeting, on 25 March, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and, in particular, to Article 3 of the bill. The representative of the applicant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, said in his introductory explanation that the aim of the proposed law is to provide all the necessary resources, which are a fundamental condition for the implementation of the planned projects to be fully financed and built by DARS. On the basis of that law, the State will guarantee the fulfilment of the obligations of DARS to creditors and buyers of debt securities. This will enable the company to provide a source of financing for debt in the form of loans or the issuance of debt securities at the total amount defined by the law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly said that the comments of the Service with the amendments of the coalition groups had been fully abolished. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the bill and unanimously welcomed the continuation of the regional development it will allow. The financial stability of DARS was also exposed, which makes it unlikely that the guarantee would be cashed. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and Specifically Articles 1, 3 and 5 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Franc Rosec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. The aim of the bill is to make it possible to provide all the necessary resources, which are a fundamental condition for the implementation of the following projects, projects and, in particular, projects of Part Three of the Development Axis. Here we think development axis north, section Šentrupert-Velenje, then there are works or different sections on the development axis south and then new construction on the road from Ptuj to Ormož and expansion of the existing highway Koseze-Kazarje into the 6-passenger. On the basis of the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the fulfilment of obligations for DARS to borrowers or buyers of debt securities, enabling the company to provide sources of debt financing in the form of loans or debt securities issued in the amount of EUR 392.44 million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposed guarantee law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u128	Thank you, President. The Law on Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for DARS liabilities under credit and debt securities leased or issued for the financing of motorway projects amounting to EUR 392 million, representing, of course, 50 % of total investments in value of 785 million, in developmental sections, the 3rd development axis north for the second part, which we had to release in the first instalment in December 2019, because the documentation was not yet prepared, namely the Velenje-Sentrupert section, the 3rd development axis of the south in the Divisions of the Rhine-Connect of Malina and the construction of the main road of Ptuj-Ormoz on the sections of Gorišnica-Ormož and Markovci-Gorišnica and the extension of the road of the Kosesa-Kosarje to expand into the 6-pass. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we will vote in favour of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia that DARS will be able to achieve more favourable market conditions in order to provide the necessary financial resources to continue the construction of the 3rd development axis from the north in Koroška via Celje, Laško, the Wall Bridge against the connection of the southern part via the New City to Belo Krajino. The third development axis is of particular importance, one of the key cross-border links in the integration of important regional economic centres. This is a development axis, which is not only an important transport inter-regional road link, but also an instrument that contributes to economic, social and territorial cohesion and to the more balanced development of both Slovenian regions and the direct European space. From an infrastructure point of view, the third development axis is a high-quality road, which is a secondary, transversal link between the Mediterranean and the Baltic-Adriatic corridor. The modern road link between regional centres and countries allows freight and passenger road transport for all regions to be linked to the main European transport route. We are still hearing concerns from central Slovenia that the third development axis is financially wasteful and uneconomic. Don't worry, colleagues and colleagues, this time we are investing in decades of neglected region, which we need to collide from the centre and, of course, also neighbouring countries along inappropriate roads that are falling apart, which are narrow through run-ins, which close in the wake of major traffic accidents and floods, and we have to go to Ljubljana through crossings and freight traffic via Maribor or even through Austria. I'm talking about Korosha. By building the third development axis of the truck through the Huda Hole race from Velenje to Thinking, it will not be necessary to fold the mirrors so as not to break them, they will not tear the canvas and stop the traffic on the trucks at meetings on narrow curves. Thus, Korošci and Belokrani, the Ormožani, will be safer on our way to school, to work on the intersections, the circles on these narrow roads. We'll save it in time, save it on transportation costs. The development of previously neglected landscapes will be strengthened by new investments, with higher added value, allowing the development of tourism, making it easier for young people to stay at home. Citizens and citizens in these provinces will feel no longer neglected and we will look more optimisticly at the future, so there will be fewer questions and wonder that for example Koroška is not only in Austria, but also in Slovenia. And for this we do not complain when we speak Slovenian. Eight years ago, Tony Gaspersich and I reached out to the river to connect to a better road connection. Tony had his first shovel, and I want my last one. The indebtedness of Dars to development projects linking neglected regions and thus providing them with new potential is therefore, from an economic, social, cultural and national perspective, indisputable and solidarity for us and for future generations. Colleagues and colleagues! Koroška, Šaleška, Bela Krajina, Prlecija, the financial resources allocated this time to us, we will not only return to you with tolls, we will return to you with faster development, jobs, higher added value, higher profits and greater recognition of the green and hidden parts of Slovenia that we will present to the world. We will repay you with our pleasure over laughter and kindness when you visit us in our green lands. In the LMŠ we will support the guarantee law, and you, colleagues and colleagues will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Government's proposal for a law, which we are considering under an urgent procedure, provides State guarantees for certain motorways and road sections which are placed in the space, while at the same time providing them with investment documentation. The routes covered by the legal proposal are part of the additional programmes included in the national highway construction programme for which DARS is responsible. Therefore, all these roads will also be included in the tolling system. The legal proposal covers a wide range of important road links, two sections of the so-called third development axis on the north side of the A1 and Velenje motorway, and on the south side of the A2 motorway across the New Town from Malina. The construction of a fast road between Ptvovo and Ormož as well as the expansion of the western Ljubljana bypass into a six-passenger are also included. The construction of these sections will also leave a considerable amount of traffic isolated areas, which are also demographic, economic and socialally threatened, and will therefore need to be linked to modern transport links if we are to provide them with a suitable environment for migration and development. Of course, the rapid expansion of the road network can also have undesirable consequences in the form of pollution of new transport burdens and, above all, degradation of space and land, so much more important that, in putting new transport links into place, the treatment is prudent and patient in order to limit the harmful effects of road transport, which is necessary for coherent and regional development, which is why the Social Democrats believe that it is mainly about the sections of the third development axis and the rapid road between Ptuj and Ormož for important development projects that do not have the right alternatives. Without them it is not possible to ensure even development in the disadvantaged areas of Koroška, White landscape and Lower Podravje. However, the trend towards upgrading Ljubljana’s highway ring into six lanes is slightly different, as there are also a number of alternatives mainly in the field of rail and public transport, which could significantly burden Ljubljana’s motorway by road, not so that they should be able to cut through large expansions of roads that attract new traffic flows. Above all, in this urban and developed area, the country would be expected to look more actively for alternatives, not only of an infrastructure and construction nature, but rather of a much more accurate, accessible and user-friendly experience of public passenger transport, which is still lagging behind the standards of the developed world in Slovenia. Stressing the need for a period of drivers on the Ljubljana network is in sharp contrast to the priorities in the other three sections, where it is indeed a matter of ensuring the basic transport connectivity of disadvantaged areas. Inadvertently forcing decisions for a new kilometer of asphalt can limit alternatives that are acceptable to the environment and sustainable development in the long term, so we hope that the government has given good thought to alternatives before deciding to include this motorway section in investment plans and the guarantee law. However, it might also be worth considering the gradual decentralisation of the country and the accelerated economic development of rural areas, resulting in the release of pressure from day-to-day labour migration to large centres such as Ljubljana. Then even the Ljubljana Six-Team probably wouldn't be necessary. From the point of view of public financial burden, the Motorway Company needs State guarantee to build new sections, but due to the high value of the assets managed by the DARS and due to their toll revenues, it is unlikely that there will be real guarantees. [[Incomprehensible]] We will be in the Group of Social Democrats, and we will therefore support the proposal for a guarantee law that will allow the building of key development road links and the demographic and social development of disadvantaged areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u132	Respectable. Under the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the fulfilment of obligations for DARS to lenders or buyers of debt securities. On this basis, DARS will be able to provide resources for debt financing in the form of loans or debt securities issued in total as defined by law, ensuring smooth implementation of road projects on both the third development axis, on its northern and southern parts from the linkage of the centre to the link between Malina in the southern part. To build the state road Gorišnica-Ormož and Markovci-Gorišnica and expand the highway section Koseze-Kosarje into a six-passenger section. The total amount of the guarantee under this law is EUR 392.44 million. However, the financial implications would only affect the budget if the guarantee was cashed. In this case, the State has the right, on the basis of a proposal for a law, to repress all payment amounts together with all costs. In this regard, let me stress that DARS is doing very well. Dars' net profit almost doubled to EUR 112.7 million last year. DARS is therefore extremely stable. In view of the above, it is not expected to cash out the guarantee, so there will be no financial implications for the state budget in our firm conviction. In addition to the White landscape, Koroška is the only region in Slovenia that has not even a kilometer of highway built. It is a region which has very poor transport links with the central part of Slovenia and other Slovenian regions. The third development axis, which is linked to the trans-European transport network, will bring development and progress for all residents and residents, higher economic growth, increased interest in work in the region and greater employability and prevention of brain drain. This project does not only benefit Koroška, but also all the surrounding regions with which the Koroška axis connects. This bill also pursues the objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty. This puts more emphasis on infrastructure investments and coherent regional development, and we keep our word on this. Construction will significantly increase the flow rate, reduce travel routes and increase safety for all road users. We must not allow Koroška and the other regions to continue to be abandoned due to geographical distance from central Slovenia. We must provide everyone with the same opportunities for development as residents and residents in other regions. The idea of building a fast road against Koroška has been in existence for decades, and the Koroškas have been working hard for it for the last seventeen years. In developing this project, we obviously had to wait for the ministerial position to take over Jernej Vrtovac with his team. Last summer, the glass was finally made in the Koroška area, and the first shovel was symbolically planted. As in Koroška, we are moving things forward in many other infrastructure projects. We have provided a record budget for infrastructure, over a billion euros. We also build many other traffic connections after decades of congestion. As the proposal pursues the objective of greater coherent regional development, less centralisation, greater opportunities for the economy and not least greater mobility of our people, we will support the law in the NSI Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u134	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, the bill before us makes it possible for the operator of motorways and fast roads, Dars, to be indebted again for the second time in this mandate. The State guarantee will contribute to the faster and more efficient implementation of the projects covered by the guarantee, several times already mentioned. The first is the section from Šentrupert to Velenje, which is the northern part of the third development axis, the first section on the southern part of the third development axis between Osredka and Malina in the area of the New City, the rapid road Markovci-Gorišnica, the road Gorišnica-Ormož, the extension of one of the most burdened sections of the western Ljubljana bypass between the section of Kosesa and Kozarje to the sixth lane. The State guarantee is, of course, welcome in such projects, since lenders are much easier to agree to if they know that the State guarantees the guarantee. In view of the fact that Dars’s guarantee has not yet been cashed, it can be expected that this time too. Given that the third development axis in the party is one of the key state projects, we cannot, of course, oppose the bill. The informal beginnings associated with the planning of the third development axis date back to the 1970s. This is already a clear indication that related matters are taking too long and that everything possible must be done to make the course of events even faster and to build the road. Since the 1970 ’ s, a number of promises have been made, and the paper has been carried by many, overly optimistic, and unrealistic. Unfortunately, many times it has proved that the objectives set have not been feasible. Delays have spread and marked virtually all aspects of planning the construction of the north side of the axis. The Ministry of Infrastructure is at a time when it was led by our president mag. Alenka Bratušek, after years of cutting off the Gordy knot and building the third development axis, gave new wind into the sails. During this time, the first guarantee law for the third development axis was adopted and a milestone in the construction of this road was reached after many years. We are pleased that the Ministry in its current composition continues its well-started work. It is, however, significant and interesting that the ministry is headed by the very party that we have today on the table, from Šentrupert to Velenje, devalued him, marked him as imprisoned, marked him with poor traffic efficiency, and accompanied all of this with the cry “We want a road for Korosce, not for the construction barons.” But let's leave it at that. In the SAB Group, we have already stressed in the consideration of the guarantee law in autumn 2019 that it would seem to us that the financial structure would make sense to cover all sections along the entire line, i.e. two for which there was not yet an investment plan, two for which we are considering today. We have stressed that the guarantee law itself does not provide any guarantee and there is not sufficient basis for obtaining the guarantee, as the guarantee contract also needs to be signed. In the event of possible complications and non-confirmation of investment programmes, the law of guarantee is only a dead end on paper. We also stressed that, when investment programmes are approved, the law will have to be reopened and supplemented, although this could be avoided. And that's what we're doing today. It turned out that we were also right in autumn 2019. Given that the third development axis in the SAB party is one of the key country projects, of course we cannot oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u136	Dear fellow Members, distinguished representative of the Government. In the Group of Members, we particularly welcome the vision of further development and modernisation of the Slovenian highway cross, as these cities are no longer in line with the needs of the people and the economy. Let me list three of the top priority projects, which are also addressed by today's guarantee law. The Third Development Axis project is an essential prerequisite for establishing normal transport connectivity with central Slovenia and for a more equitable development of all regions. The same goal follows the project of construction of the main road Hajdin – Ormož, which has been incomprehensible for a long time. Also in the priority plan, it is essential to extend the Ljubljana Highway Ring to the Koseza section – Kozarje to the six-passenger section. This section is especially seasonally overloaded during the summer time of tourism. In order to avoid traffic congestion, drivers are therefore used for traffic on the surrounding roads, which locally drastically reduces traffic safety. Investments in transport infrastructure are also one of the major generators of economic growth, as they are multiplying economic activity in many other sectors. The aim of the proposed guarantee law today is thus to provide the necessary financial resources for the implementation of these three priority-planned road projects, which will be fully financed and built by DARS. DARS will obtain the necessary funding by borrowing loans or issuing debt securities and the State will guarantee the fulfilment of the financial obligations of DARS to creditors or buyers of debt securities upon their arrival. Since the State guarantee for creditors means greater security for their financial investment, the financial structure of the planned projects will be more favourable for the DARS, i.e. cheaper. Given the very good business and financial condition of DARS, however, it is not feared that the State guarantees would pose a real threat to public funds. Members of the party will specifically support the proposed guarantee law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Slovenia is redesigning and modernising its transport-logistic corridors. This is a matter of public infrastructure, and usually this is a matter for the State and its role in aggregate demand in particular in roads and railways. The aggregate demand side is the one that promotes the engagement of production factors, increased production or economic growth. The gross domestic product is not a day in itself, but depends on the demand factors. The purpose of the law is to establish the envisaged conditions of indebtedness for Dars, refers to the State guarantee for the financing of the motorway section from Šentrupert to Velenje south on the northern part of the third development axis, and to the right section in the south part of that third development axis between Osredka and Malina in the area from New Town to Metlika. In addition, the guarantee includes the project of the fast road Hajdina Ormož with sections Markovci-Gorišnica and Goriščnica-Ormož and the expansion of the western Ljubljana bypass between the sections of Kosesa and Kozarje from the 4-passenger section in the 6-passenger section. It is not possible to carry out such extensive and demanding works without bank loans and issuance of debt securities. Dars will receive up to €392 million and €440 000 of state guarantees under this law, which means that the terms of the debt will be more favourable. When deciding to support the bill, it is important to review the financial situation of the company for the motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. As a starting point, we can take the company's audited accounts from the end of 2020. The Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia shall demonstrate its financial strength. It is worth €5 billion and €175 million. In the structure of liabilities to resources, it has €2 billion and €922 million of capital, which means that the ratio between capital and debt is 56.5% in favour of capital. It has a billion and 782 million long-term liabilities and 295 million short-term liabilities. It meets all its long-term and short-term obligations both financially and business regularly. It also shows long-term loans to others amounting to €93 million and short-term loans to others amounting to €208 million, which is said to lend to others annually at €300 million. At the same time, it also has the most liquid form of funds, a €62 million cash. The balance sheet profit data is also important. In particular, it was most exposed to an epidemic of €59.5 million in 2020 and € 139 million and €600 million a year earlier. Dars has a capital reserve of EUR 28.5 million, and what is crucial to today's decision also has a profit reserve of some less than EUR 800 million. They consist of legal reserves, statutory reserves and other reserves of profits. We are talking about a financial and business stable society. The risk of a guarantee provided by the State for the construction of these motorway sections in the future is so very low. Logistics and transport are becoming a central business area with rapid growth in modern globalisation. Modern logistics companies offer not only transport and storage but quality chain management, which is increasingly important for market and cost management. Modernising road links is therefore one of the key development tasks of Slovenia. Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice greeting to all present, especially the government representatives! One of the most important projects of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly the third development axis project for which the guarantee is also committed. This is a development axis that contributes to economic, social and territorial cohesion and to the more balanced development of both Slovenian regions and the direct European space. The guarantee is also given for the construction of the main road Hajdina-Ormož, section Gorišnica-Ormož and Markovci-Gorišnica. The main road Hajdin-Ormož was planned in the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore also has the status of the motorway, which is essential. The planned new road connection from Ptuj to Ormož will redirect transit traffic to a new connecting road. It is good for the country to rule in infrastructure projects, that is to say, to be built throughout the country. However, since DARS does not have sufficient resources to carry out its projects, the State has to provide an adequate guarantee that these investments will finally be realised. Construction is one of the most important industries since it has great multiplier effects and decisively contributes to economic growth. Construction also has a positive impact on the growth of other activities and is also important in terms of employment. By deciding on a project as large as the 3rd Development Axis, this decision has indirect effects on almost every citizen. It is good that the infrastructure used by citizens is being built. And it's definitely the roads. The Hajdin-Ormož road will provide greater traffic safety, increase travel speeds, improve the linkage of the Podrava area for central Slovenia. It will also improve accessibility, which will affect competitiveness and regional development, in short serve people, which is essential. The value of the Markovci-Gorišnica section is EUR 12.5 million and the value of the Gorišnica-Ommoz section is EUR 50 million. Since it is a project estimated at just over €60 million, which is not a small amount of money, we are concerned that there will also be a variety of annexes here, which will increase the value of investments from year to year due to the requirements of operators, which is certainly not right. Not only the guarantee, but also the supervision should be much greater in this case, as the state assumes great financial obligations. But the fact is, these projects started too late, too late. In the Podravja area, this investment has undoubtedly delayed for too long, but this law is a small step in the right direction. But since I come from this area and know the situation on the ground, I tell you that people on the ground are disappointed because they feel forgotten by the state. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LIVING GUARANTEE SCHEME FOR YOUNG PEOPLE, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 43 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u142	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have an important law before us because we are talking a lot about solving the housing problem of young people, but unfortunately we are all doing too little together, even though this is a topic that is also defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in various European regulations, and not least one of the European Union's priorities, namely the regulation of affordable dwellings for young people. This is a topic or problem solved where we introduced a similar law in the SDS Group already in 2019. Then a slightly different concept in the sense that we want to solve the problem of unoccupied or free state dwellings, but now somehow a different course of rescue. Perhaps even to begin with, this government's 5th action in the area of housing. The first measure was the amendment of the Construction Law; the second was the amendment of the Space Regulation Act; the third measure was the amendment of the Housing Law, where we also accelerated the possibility of obtaining the first apartments through various measures. As a fourth measure, however, it is necessary to mention that the government has adopted the business policy of the Housing Fund and has ordered it to build by itself, through its business policy by 2025, 5,000 rental apartments that are already starting to be built or are already being built. In the second part, allow me to present some of the key topics of this law. First of all, the very definition of what the first resolution of the Housing Fund means. This shall be deemed to be the first purchase, construction, renovation or upgrading of residential property, reconstruction or modification of the purpose of the apartment, if the apartment complies with surface standards for suitable housing. The second thing that is very important is to solve the first solution to the housing problem for two categories: for young investors up to the age of 38 and for young families, which are also part of the diction of this law. Finally, it is important that the Republic of Slovenia issue a guarantee under this law up to 31 years old. 12. 2032. It is also important that young people themselves, or young families themselves, are involved, not waiting for the help of the State and for the assistance of banks or savings banks that can provide a guarantee scheme. Young people must have a fixed or indefinite working relationship and their average salary must be equal to or less than 1.5 times the last known average monthly net salary in the Republic of Slovenia within three months of the application for credit under this law. Some other important facts: the duration of each cover may not be more than 30 years. The principals of credits for individual residential property must not be more than EUR 200 000 and the borrower must ensure his own participation of at least 20% of the principal's funds. In short, with today's law, I hope that we are finally going from talking about how young people need to be helped to solve the first housing solution to practice itself. We believe that the country, as a marriage, as banks and savings banks, and not least on the basis of our law, will do something good for young people. From this city, let me thank our young Slovenian Democratic Youth, who came back in September or October 2021 with the idea that now is really the time to move from words to actions. They started to write the law, coordinated with different stakeholders, and today's bill, together with the support of the Legal and Legislative Service, is, in our opinion, a great basis for us to finally start helping young people, including in the area of housing. Not to talk about 300 apartments in six years, what the previous three governments have done, but to save, in addition to the work of the Housing Fund, the housing hardship of young and young families in particular with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Committee, Robert Pollnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u144	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Finance Committee is at its 72nd emergency session, 1. 4th this year, the draft law on the Youth Housing Guarantee Scheme, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Daniel Krivec, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the Proposal for a Law were tabled by the SDS, NSI and in particular the 10th Articles of the Proposal for a Law. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer presented the objectives and solutions of the draft law, which is more easily accessible by housing credit, with the guarantee of the State for the first resolution of the housing problem of young people. He explained the concept of the borrower in the draft law and pointed out that they took into account the comments made by the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly when defining this concept in more detail. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance initially said that the Government supported the idea of addressing the housing problem of young people and pointed out that there was a partial material discrepancy in certain parts of the draft law that needed to be considered in the direction of improvement. In doing so, it highlighted the limited creditworthiness of beneficiaries following a 2019 decision by Banka Slovenije, which asks for the granting of credit to a person who is in no position to be credited by this Decision. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled took account of some of the concerns expressed in the written opinion of the service and made three comments in the presentation. First of all, it drew attention to the provision in Article 1 of the draft law on the decision of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia on credit-deprived beneficiaries who could obtain credit on the basis of a proposal for a State guarantee law. She said that this could constitute an intervention in the constitutional independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Secondly, it highlighted a vaguely certain amount of the guarantee in Article 12 of the proposal for a law. As a third comment, however, it cited a wide-ranging limitation on the operation of banks included in the guarantee scheme under Article 20 of the law. In the debate, members and members agreed on the importance of resolving the housing problem of young people. As a key challenge of the proposed law, the question or solutions contained in the bill may change the limits of crediting the population set out in the Bank of Slovenia's macrobonite measure. In the discussion of the bill, the Coalition Members supported and stressed the need to find solutions to the comments put forward by the Association of Banks of Slovenia. Some opposition Members have been critical to the solution of the bill because they say they are not solving the issue. This is, however, an unlimited rise in prices in the real estate market. They were also interested in how the law in practice would address the issue of credit incapacity of borrowers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered and adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI and Specifically to the 10th Articles of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u145	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Maja Hostnik Kališek State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear Members and Members! The government initially points out that it supports the idea of resolving the housing problem of the young generation, which is created by means of loans, through the State guarantee provided for by the proposed Youth Housing Guarantee Act. In its opinion on the draft law, the Government highlighted the substantive inconsistencies in individual parts and proposed further reflection in the direction of improvement of the bill. The bill's proposer took into account the Government's proposal and drafted ten amendments adopted at the 92nd urgent meeting of the Finance Committee, thus eliminating the substantive non-conformity of the bill. However, the Government points out that it is questionable to determine the beneficiaries of the State guarantee on persons who are not creditworthy following a decision by the Bank of Slovenia on the macro-prudential limits of crediting the population, since there is a question whether the banks will actually grant credit to a person who, after a decision, is not in a position to be able to do so, since these are the rules of the bank market regulator, which is independent under the Constitution. Nevertheless, the proposal of the law can serve as a lever for the possible easing of Banka Slovenije rules, as banks will receive a State guarantee by means of a bill to reduce the risks associated with the payment of credit obligations to borrowers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Nik Prebil will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u148	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! Have a nice hello again! Today I wanted to start this position with words, thank God for the coalition that after many years you have heard the call of the opposition and young people in this area. I wanted to start like this, but I still can't. Why? Because the law that is prepared before us is impractical, and this is warned by the Law and Law Service, experts in banking and many others warn. But before we go to that, I'll go back to the beginning, to the previous government, the one that still had a little more hearing for the young. The proposal, which had already been drawn up in the LMS already at public hearing in 2020, was not adopted. We then tabled several amendments to the Budget Implementation Act in order to raise the level of guarantees for this purpose, but the current coalition against it has over time been. Let me point out that, along with the rest of the opposition, we have also tabled a law on the construction of public rental apartments, and you have refused to do so. And the question to me is why if we all follow the same goal to do so as soon as possible. Why? Is it just a matter of prestige for some sort of pre-election struggle? So I really wonder why, if that's so good, you've already broken it four times. The key word link of this bill is, of course, that the guarantee is granted to those up to 38 years employed for a certain and indefinite period of time, which, according to the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, are not creditable for the first resolution of the housing issue. To be clear, in LMŠ we are in favour of the idea of a guarantee or some guarantee scheme, but in this law we are asked the question, as I mentioned at the outset, is even relevant if we cannot implement it, given that we know that banks outside their lending frameworks cannot give to those who are unable to do credit or what is prescribed by the parent unit, that is, the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that this proposal for a law before us would constitute a repeal of the measure imposed by the Bank of Slovenia by this Decision. Why am I saying this? Because it is very important to point out here that a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2001 on the assessment of the Law on the National Housing Savings Scheme has already been made, which has repealed the decision which interferes with the same decision as that of the Bank of Slovenia now opened, and of course we have a purely legal and appropriate question whether or not the Constitutional Court is likely to repeal such a law. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, from which Minister Šircelj, from the SDS party, said very similar things, which I now have the principles. According to the Bank of Slovenia, the Government points out that limiting beneficiaries to non-creditable persons is extremely questionable, since this is an open question whether the banks will be banks at all, and believe me, they will not grant credit to a person who is not creditworthy. This is the regulation of the banking market, which, as you know, is fully independent of the Constitution. We were in LMŠ two years ago, and you all know this, extremely critical until the said decision of Banka Slovenije, President Šarec then said it publicly, and on your part he received numerous criticisms as to what we are interfering with the autonomy of Banka Slovenije. We have made it clear that this is a non-life measure that will be negative and already, we see, have a negative impact on the many positions of many citizens and citizens, not just young people. On the other hand, we have also made it clear to you that we do not support your candidate for governor, who was, of course, elected with the help of your client, the largest government SDS party. And so you have chosen the governor, which measures you now oppose. As it is said, we will not object to the LMŠ law, but we estimate that it is precisely for this reason, because many laws that have regulated things in a similar way, perhaps even better, by the coalition, so it is not a case that the story falls at exactly the pre-election time from which end the desired benefits will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! What is the actual proposal of this law? This is what the bill says: if you're young and not so young, but if the bank realizes that you're still so creditworthy, we'll trust you to pee thinly until you retire. That's basically what he says. At the same time, these 3 billion, which are expected to be used in the next ten years, are most delighted by the speculative builders. Not only is it sad, regardless of all the governments that have been in the last 30 years, but I personally believe that it is unacceptable that we have such a disastrous housing policy or have no one at all. Why? Three hours drive from my Maribor is Vienna. Red Vienna has the best housing policy in the world, period. Red Danube is an official term for it. This housing policy has been developed by social democrats in hundreds of years. Here I must also be critical of Slovenian social democracy, frankly. 79% of the citizens and citizens of Vienna or, if you want, of the country of Vienna, there are no owners of apartments or properties. Why would they be, because they don't have to. And instead of taking an oath for over 30 years on an overpriced stand, this money is spent on a whole range of activities, and this money is used to spin one small sea of economies. At the same time, every year in Vienna, both the city and private investors build some tens of thousands of apartments and at the same time renovate if I have the correct data, 15,000 old apartments; they are being renovated; this does not mean that you shake a little styrofoam and a new facade up. In this way, of course, there can also be a whole range of construction-turn activities, of course, not in the way of speculative capital. And that's the right way we should actually pick it up. And with this route, a whole range of other activities could live as in the already mentioned Danube. But unfortunately, in this reference, you know, when we had the night school of macro-economics, there were two of us, the alternate MPs LMŠ and Franz Trček. Mark understands this from his foho, and perhaps 80% of Members and Members do not understand what I am now saying; I hope that in the next reference at least 30% will understand this. This law, such as it is, the Social Democrats are not inclined and we will not support it. However, we will be the renewed Social Democrats in the direction of what our colleagues in Vienna are doing, as well as, after all, what they are doing in the Swiss Confederation, where they have over 5,000 different and diverse housing cooperatives. When I spoke about this in the National Assembly, then SDS Chuš (Let's Connect Slovenia) was even more slobbering than he was saying that these were socialist-communist. [[…]] Okay, well, let's have Vienna's Swiss communism in housing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Hello! At first glance, this law is written on the skin of young families, young ones with low incomes, those who resolve their housing problem. But the facts are different. If the Government wanted to ensure that young people have a roof over their heads, it would build affordable, public, non-profit apartments, tax empty and luxurious apartments and limit prices on the real estate market, peak. But that's not what he's doing. She wrote a law that was written for banks. And we have practically only private banks with foreign capital. These banks will be able to continue to encroach on workers free and more rapidly with revolving loans. If the credit inability of the workers is to inherit their loans, the state will cover their losses with public money. That's the essence of the law before us. The law will allow banks to continue to make profits on the shoulders of workers who, due to the lack of any serious state housing policy, even in dreams, cannot afford flats other than to be in debt to banks for 30 years and to be bound by pressure on their millions of profits. According to the proposed scheme, the State would be married to loans with a maturity of not more than 30 years and the principal should not be more than 200 000. For example, someone from the UniCredit Bank will rent 200 000 euros of credit for, say, 30 years at a fixed 2.4% interest rate. The monthly annuity in this case is EUR 784. The creditor will, of course, have to ensure its own participation of EUR 40 000. But I think the numbers themselves speak enough eloquently about how much of the population is excluded under such conditions. On given wages, on given working conditions, which are more edifying to the heart from day to day, most people can't afford such a loan even in their dreams. Although the marriage seems to be very attractive, it is completely flawed on several points. He's wrong because he doesn't interfere with the housing market. On the contrary, on the market it maintains high real estate prices, high rental prices, of which it benefits mainly real estate barons. It is also flawed because it creates an additional mass of very vulnerable borrowers. It helps banks in this way to issue bank loans and forge bank profits back on the shoulders of the poor, forced by the lack of public rentals into debt slavery. It is also flawed because it continues to encourage the equity model to solve the housing issue, although the public rental model is both cheaper and more accessible. We do not need guarantee schemes to make use of private banks owned by foreign capital to deal with the housing crisis of young people. A simple solution to the housing issue must no longer be left to the market. Providing suitable housing for all is the task of the State. In order to get rid of the vicious cycle, funds for the construction of at least 30 000 new public non-profit apartments by 2030 must be provided immediately, secondly, to strengthen the regulation of the rental market by limiting the level of market rents and limiting the level of market prices. And thirdly, it is imperative to introduce a progressive tax on rent and flat tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Andrej Černigoj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u154	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed National Assembly. On the issue of housing, the role of the country is primarily seen in creating an environment in which citizens and citizens will be better able to come to their own home. The task of the State or municipalities is to develop an appropriate spatial and land policy and infrastructure so that citizens and businesses can provide adequate housing solutions themselves. Securing your own home is one of the key conditions for building a family. This is the primary responsibility and responsibility of each family, but sometimes the first housing issue has to be tackled by such or other measures. For young people who study as well as for young people who already have a job, solving the first housing challenge is a difficult obstacle to self - conquest and family creation. The challenge exists both in urban and rural environments and needs to be addressed comprehensively. Why do prices in Slovenia go to the sky? In our opinion, because there are simply no empty “non-sustainable” [[?]] building plots that would be available to investors for housing construction. Insufficient real estate supply and high demand drive up prices. It is thus virtually impossible to buy an apartment or a house for an individual or a family with average income. The bill establishes a residential guarantee scheme for young people, allowing full-year natural persons under the age of 38 who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and have a registered permanent residence in Slovenia to better resolve the first housing problem. This is a measure also mentioned in our government programme, New Slovenia, 2022 – 2026. The measure will facilitate access to housing for some key population groups. This is therefore an incentive on the demand side, and it is worth stressing that when this measure is introduced, we also need measures from the New Slovenia government programme to increase housing supply, otherwise prices will continue to rise sharply. It is necessary to facilitate the possibility of new constructions, particularly in our view, by means of a spatial policy for the regeneration of degraded areas and abandoned buildings. Secondly, by faster adapting municipal spatial plans and by allowing greater accessibility to municipal land equipment for one or more residential buildings. Thirdly, by removing all obstacles that prevent investors from building. And last but not least, with tax reliefs mainly for the construction of human resources housing. In Nova Slovenije, especially on the side of increasing housing supply, we believe that we still have great challenges. Nevertheless, the Law on the Housing Guarantee Scheme for Youth for a Important Population Group is a step forward. Young people will get a credit for the apartment much easier. That is why we will unanimously support the law in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u156	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have on the table the Proposal for a Law on Housing Guarantee for Youth, which is similar to the bill tabled by the then opposition in 2019 and which is intended to have the same objective for young generations who are forming a family or part of a young family, with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for their credit to make it easier, faster to solve the first housing issue. The bill is intended to help young people to gain credit and, as a result, their own home. The housing guarantee scheme shall primarily tandem the younger population who are employed for a certain or indefinite period of time whose creditworthiness is generally low. Young families who have one or more children and at least one of the children is not yet required are also included in the eligible category. We ask ourselves whether it is ethical and moral to ask young people to buy real estate with a lifetime loan, at a price of 2, 3 or 4 thousand euros per square meter. At first it would be necessary to save the real estate market, which is extremely overestimated for us. If the construction price of the property moves around EUR 200 per square metre, i.e. insurance companies secure the building value of the facility, then prices should move around this value. The proposal is intended to set up a housing guarantee scheme for young people, allowing full-year natural persons up to 38 years of age to resolve the first housing problem. As the Association of Banks of Slovenia points out, any form of guarantee without eliminating the severe restrictions on the access of residents to housing and other credits resulting from the binding regulation of the Bank of Slovenia adopted in 2019 will not bear the desired effect, nor will the proposed law. In the SAB Group, we are aware that young people today have a difficult task when it comes to solving the housing problem. In solving the housing problem, with a deprived situation, there are just young generations who create families or employees for a certain or indefinite period of time that do not have high incomes. Unfortunately, today's proposed law on credit incapacitated persons will not have any beneficial effects on those who solve the housing problem and, as it goes, present only pre-election propaganda without content. When it is registered in the Association of Banks of Slovenia, if the borrower is not creditworthy in accordance with the rules governing banking, including the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, the proposed State guarantee would not allow him to obtain the credit or to obtain the amount of credit needed for the purchase of a suitable dwelling. In the SAB Group, we are seeking to introduce a state guarantee scheme for loans for the first purchase of dwellings. The State guarantee would mean that young people can also purchase real estate with and without a deposit. [[Incomprehensible]] In the SAB Group, we are aware that young people with housing problems cannot develop their too many potentials and face the challenges of the future. In a modern way, however, we will deal with the housing challenges of young people in a much more decisive way than is being done today, allowing them to become more independent and easier to buy or rent their first apartment. The aim is to provide between 500 and 800 apartments for young people at the annual level, because we have solutions in the SAB. In the SAB, we are committed to systematic and comprehensive measures that would enable young people to first take their own stand and take the initiative for their future and the future of Slovenia. Even though we know that this is a propaganda proposal for law in the SAB Group, we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings, Secretary of State and everyone here! Look for the introduction. How could state banks lend and refinance to legal entities in deep red numbers and without guarantees and were then even transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company? What kind of condition is this? I think everyone knows. For loans for young people and for decades almost nothing to solve their problems. Young generations are severely limited in solving the housing problem, especially those who are just creating a family and employees for a certain period of time whose creditworthiness is lower. The purchase of dwellings in this population is virtually disabled due to the high prices and financial risk brought about by the purchase of housing and long-term indebtedness. A large percentage of young people can rely primarily on parental help and do not know how to raise enough to deposit credit without their help. Young people simply want to win over so that they can fulfill their life ambitions, they want to get to an apartment without burdening their parents, and it is our job to help them. The purpose of the bill, which is before us today, is for young generations who are part of a young family working for a certain or indefinite period, whose credit capacity is generally low with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for their credit to enable easier, easier and faster resolution of their first housing issue or the acquisition of credit. The following is for a better understanding of this law. Creditors will have to meet certain conditions and in principle only something. Age up to 38 years and nationality of the Republic of Slovenia with registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia: a fixed or indefinite working relationship, average pay of the borrower in the last 3 months before the application for credit is equal to or less than 1.5 times the average monthly salary in the Republic of Slovenia and so on. The fact is that young people are a deprived group, at the beginning of the Soviet Union they are the starting careers without savings or often in a poor economic situation with low incomes or even penitentiary forms of work. At the same time, it is essential for the vitality of society that young people become independent early, integrate into the labour market, create a family and also their own home. Since this alone cannot be achieved through a market mechanism, it is necessary to establish an activity which, by means of appropriate stimulating policies, young people are able to resolve their first housing issue. Policies advocated by the party In particular are higher housing subsidies for young people, intensive construction of state housing, smaller areas to address the initial housing needs of young people, favourable housing loans with State guarantee, preferential rent through the State Housing Fund, subsidisation of the credit rate for the renovation of existing dwellings and houses, and in particular an increase in budgetary resources for the implementation of housing policy. We believe that the law before us today is definitely a step in the right direction in solving the housing problem of young people, so in the Group of Members we will also support the concrete proposal of the Law on Housing and Guarantee Schemes for Young People.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Housing is an important element of individual social security and dignity. However, it should be borne in mind that it is not necessarily related to its ownership. The housing guarantee scheme must satisfy the following conditions: what guarantee is given, how much height, whom, for how long, and for what purpose. In a specific case where the State guarantee is concerned, it is of particular importance, in terms of public finances, in addition to the level of utility and the purpose of the guarantee insurance in the event of the recovery of the State’s regression claim. It cannot be denied that the proposed legislation in the legislative process so far has been able to meet the parameters described by the amendments tabled. Nor can it be overlooked that legal provisions make it impossible to respond to a fundamental dilemma. Whether a given state guarantee increases the individual’s creditworthiness or not. This is in direct connection with the Bank of Slovenia macro-prudential measure, which has been in force since November 2019 and relates to crediting the population. The Slovenian Business Supervisor of the Banks has accepted it to prevent the excessive indebtedness of the population. It has been two and a half years since then, and the balance sheets of the banks have increased dramatically. Only the prominent role of households has increased by three billion and 880 million euros at that time. From 20 billion and 265 million at the end of 2019 to 24 billion and 245 million at the end of January of this year. The basic purpose of the law is therefore to provide an individual under 38 years of age who cannot obtain a credit with current income to resolve his housing problem in order to obtain it with the State guarantee. The legislative authority thus interferes with the independence and independence of the regulator of the banking system. It is quite likely that the final judgment on this will be delivered by the Constitutional Court. All transactions relating to the issuance, monitoring, redemption and recovery of cash guarantees, and the control over the purposeful use of credits secured by the State guarantee, will be carried out by the SID Bank. It is not known what will be the human resources and financial consequences for this institution, for the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, and we have obtained information that the applicants have not consulted on this. Members of the DeSUS Group discussed the guarantee scheme. We have a slightly different view of the maximum amount of credit, which is EUR 200 000 per hand-held credit, which is 30 years and a share of own participation, which is not less than 20%. We also do not have a uniform opinion on whether the State guarantee guarantees creditworthiness to an incompetent individual or not. Therefore, in line with this diversity of views on key issues, we will also decide whether the proposed Housing Guarantee Act is suitable for adoption or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u162	Thank you, Chairman. Yeah, I gotta change props. Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings again to all present! The law provides that, under certain conditions, the purchase, construction, renovation and upgrading of residential property or a change in the purpose of housing shall be considered as the first solution to the housing issue. Basically, the purpose of the law is good, I stress that it is good at basic, because many young people stay at home with their parents, because they cannot afford to leave on their own. The law solves the problem from start to finish and is useful for young people living in the city environment. Once again, Albanian families will have the most of these laws, since according to their lifestyle, they will be able to meet the legal requirements and thus acquire real estate. In our view, the beginning of the housing problem must first be sought on the labour market, because the market is very rigid and it is very difficult to replace the employer. Even if a fixed-term contract is not a problem, the larger problem is that the labour market does not allow for rapid employment after the end of this contract. The problem is also large real estate, mainly in rural areas, which are due to the previous system and way of thinking. These are properties that are too big for today's lifestyle. It used to be built with the purpose of living in a house for two or three generations. Today, this logic is gone because young people want their own households. Huge properties remain empty and no longer carry out their original mission after a suitable joint residence for several generations. On the other hand, many people in rural areas are doing renovations or upgrading of residential property in their own directing. People buy material, but they work alone when they come home from work, as well as when it comes to neighborly help. These people will not be helped by this law, and Albanians will be helped to easily justify the condition of the young family, while at the same time, depending on the size of the family, they can easily recover 20% of the main credit. And in real estate this is how an extended family will live with more than 10 registered persons at the same address. Neither the bank nor the state will check it out. However, those who are decent and give their time and knowledge to create a suitable place of residence after work will not gain a guarantee by means of this law, nor will all of this help a working man in other words. For these cases it would be appropriate to provide for a lower VAT rate or purchase of construction material without VAT. This would be a measure that would directly help young people to create a home. It is right for the State to provide a suitable place of residence through active policy in both the market and taxation. However, it is not a good way for citizens with the promised guarantee to make loans that are often known that they will not be able to return. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, I propose that we avoid any xenophobic statements, whether some groups have more children or less, this is relevant. If you envy them you can always compose a little action, you know that's how it goes. I suggest we move on. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, nice greetings to everyone! The bill we are going to make today is not new. As you know, the National Assembly in 2019 has already rejected the same proposal. At that time, it was proposed that non-creditable persons be granted State guarantees to obtain a housing loan for the purpose of resolving the housing issue. This would allow an individual to rent a 30-year housing loan with a capital of €150,000. After three years of not being able to change the fact, for the time of the electoral campaign, the SDS Group decided to re-propose the establishment of a housing guarantee scheme which will allow full-year natural persons under 38 years of age who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and have a permanent residence in it, and which, at the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, are not able to obtain credit with banks for the resolution of housing issues, has facilitated the resolution of the first housing problem. The highest amount of credit for which a guarantee can be issued after this Bill is EUR 200 000. The duration of the loan will be limited to a maximum of 30 years and the borrower will have to secure the loan with a mortgage and guarantee at least 20% of the share of its own participation. The 2019 proposal was created as a result of the harsh conditions adopted by the Bank of Slovenia, which also apply to the acquisition of housing credit. That is when the new rules that Banka Slovenije received for pre-payment of credit and debt entered into force. Thus, as regards the acquisition of housing loans, the banking regulator requires, inter alia, that the ratio between the annual cost of servicing the total debt and the annual income of the borrower should not exceed 50 % for the borrower with income lower than twice the gross minimum wage. Thus, the borrower must remain at least 76 % of the gross minimum wage after servicing the debt. As you know, we have witnessed, in addition to this law, several actions that have filled the Slovenian media space and hired the National Assembly, and have offered such and different solutions to solve the housing problems faced by young people, young families and reprisals in particular. By resolving difficult access to housing, in particular for young and young families who solve their housing problems for the first time, a new Housing Act has been adopted in accordance with the Resolution on the National Housing Programme by 2025, and all activities of the State, municipalities and housing funds for the future have focused primarily on strengthening the public housing fund. If you remember, the draft law even predicted that the Housing Fund would offer guarantees for first-time citizens who solve the housing issue and that the form of employment or income would not allow them to obtain credit on their own. The last proposal for a solution has therefore fallen out of the draft law as it was also, in our view, contrary to the objectives and mission of the State Housing Fund. At that time, the unaffiliated Members supported the purpose of the proposal. However, we rejected the proposed solutions because the law had a kind of flaw. It is therefore good that the original proposal has been corrected and that a minimum of own participation is ensured to determine ownership and that certain risks are borne by banks and so on in the guarantee scheme. We estimate that the provision of state guarantees for young people in need of credit, in particular for the first resolution of the housing issue, as a complementary measure for access to their own suitable housing is a reasonable measure. It follows that it is the duty of the State to create an opportunity for citizens to obtain a suitable home, either rent or ownership. The point that we are referring to the proposer is that, after the adoption of the Housing Law, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space, nothing has happened since the preparation of the special law governing the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia for those young people who are limited by the measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia when renting housing loans was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The current minister put the bill, which had already been drafted at the time of the previous Government, into the drawer, and the party belonging to it recalled these solutions on behalf of young people at the time of the election campaign, of course by chance. Now, in view of the above-mentioned findings, the Non-Aligned Members will not object to the proposal for a law. However, I would like to point out that the measure to introduce the State guarantee of credit for the purchase of the first apartment has also been included in the party's programme and will also be included in the political agenda by election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Jure Ferrjan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. The esteemed high choir. The prices of real estate in Slovenia have increased significantly over the past two decades. If we look only at real estate prices over the last two years, virtually anywhere in Slovenia we can find that they have increased significantly. Access to housing is one of the priorities of the European Union. The Europe 2020 Progress Report underlines that cheap and quality housing is a key factor in living standards and prosperity, especially for the most vulnerable groups. In solving the housing problem, young generations who create a family and those who work for a certain period of time are mainly excluded. As a rule, the latter have a creditworthiness that is very low or not creditable at all. The purchase of housing is thus virtually impossible for this population, due to the high prices and financial risks brought by the purchase of housing and, consequently, the long-term debt. As early as 2019, the SDS introduced a similar law on the housing guarantee scheme into the legislative procedure, which unfortunately did not receive sufficient support in the temple of democracy. With the coming of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they laid the groundwork for obtaining permits for the construction of residential properties faster and for the faster development of the market for renting apartments throughout the country. An amendment to the Housing Code was adopted in 2021, which includes key solutions for establishing an active housing policy and ensuring a sufficient number of available rental apartments. Additional funds for the construction of rental apartments will also be provided from the recovery and resistance plan. Today we have before us a law designed by the Slovenian Democratic Youth, a young Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am pleased that the support and adoption of this bill, which brings important solutions and saves the lives of young and young families. The main solution to the bill we are considering is the establishment of a residential guarantee scheme for young people for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia up to 38 years of age. This will therefore facilitate the resolution of the first housing problem. It is decided that the maximum amount of credit that can be obtained by the State guarantee, i.e. the State guarantee under this law will be up to EUR 200 000, and the loan itself will be limited to a maximum of 30 years. The first solution to the housing problem under this law shall be the first purchase, construction, renovation or upgrading of residential property, as well as the reconstruction or modification of the purpose of the apartment. Where the apartment, of course, complies with surface standards for suitable housing in accordance with the applicable legislation. In short, a housing guarantee scheme for young people is in place, bringing annual €300 million for Youth Guarantees, for young families up to and including 2032. The bill thus provides greater access to housing for young, young families and thus guarantees social security and the dignity of individuals who are ultimately the foundation of every fundamental human right. Respected and respected! In view of the above, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Housing Guarantee Schemes for Young People in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC TRAVEL IN THE framework of an emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have before you a proposal for a law on the management of public passenger transport, which represents an important and truly necessary step towards improving the efficiency and optimisation of the organisation and management of public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia. The organisation of public passenger transport in countries with a developed public passenger transport system is generally organised at three levels: strategic, technical and operational level. We currently have two levels in the Republic of Slovenia. The strategic and tactical level is represented by the state or ministry and the operational level of carriers. Among the countries with a developed public passenger transport system, such an arrangement represents a kind of refugee regime, as these levels are generally separate. One of the main shortcomings of the current public passenger transport regime in Slovenia is the absence of an entity that would play a tactical role. To date, a number of possibilities have been explored in which an operator, i.e. the Ministry, the body in the composition, the agency or the company, could be organised. In view of the Slovenian situation, due to its advantages over other forms, the selected limited liability company was the most appropriate company with a 100 % ownership share of the country. Such a status form should, in particular, allow for better adaptation of public passenger transport to the needs of passengers, the possibility of financing not only with budgetary resources but also with market resources, greater staff flexibility and a faster response to the market situation. The main competences of the company include, in particular, participation in the identification of a public passenger transport strategy, the preparation of professional bases, the planning of public passenger transport in the light of needs, the design of transport services and the planning of their financing, the management of the single ticket system, the provision of information to passengers and the promotion of public transport, and cooperation in the planning of the development of passenger infrastructure and infrastructure for complementary passenger services. At the Ministry, we are aware of the importance of public passenger transport in relation to environmental objectives. That is why we have taken a proactive approach to improving the current situation in this area. The future concession period will take place on the basis of the so-called Gross model. This poses great challenges to the operator. It will determine timetables, sell tickets and collect financial flows, control the quality of the implementation of public passenger transport and other competences. In this way, public passenger transport will be able to adapt as much as possible to the needs of the people of Slovenia. In order to be able to do so, it must be adequately staffed and adequately equipped. We therefore need a strong and competent public passenger traffic manager to meet the challenges posed by the design of future public passenger transport in Slovenia. This will also be achieved by the proposed organisation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, President. Honourable Secretary of State, honourable Member and Members of Parliament. At its 58th emergency meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on the management of public passenger transport submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, stressed that one of the main shortcomings of the current public passenger transport regime in Slovenia is the absence of an entity that would play a tactical role. So far, several possibilities have been explored in which the manager could be organised, and in view of the Slovenian situation, due to the advantages over other forms, as the most appropriate limited liability company with a 100 % ownership share of the country. The aim is to organise public passenger transport management at tactical level within a professional organisation that will enable rapid market response and better adaptation of public passenger transport to the needs of passengers. In addition, such a form allows only this one to be financed through market funding, not only through budgetary resources, but also allows for more flexible mechanisms to provide the necessary staff, as it is not subject to employment restrictions as is the case with the forms that fall within the public administration system. Due to greater flexibility and flexibility, the company can therefore better ensure the need for a motivated and highly qualified staff to carry out professional tasks in the context of public passenger transport tasks. The main purpose and purpose of the bill is therefore to establish a company for the management of public passenger transport in the form of a limited liability company with a 100 per cent ownership of the country, which will combine tactical management functions in one body. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that amendments to the coalition groups were tabled, which take most of the comments of the nomotechnical nature and comments relating to the greater clarity and specificity of the text into account. With regard to the exercise of control over the use of tickets, however, it pointed out that amendments to Articles 24 and 34 of the Law were tabled in such a way as to ensure that the law no longer provides for infringement at the level of the proposal, but it should be noted that there is still no clear relationship between Article 24 of the Law and Article 46 in relation to Article 132 of the Road Transport Act or between those articles. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill. In the Commission's view, the establishment of a strong public passenger traffic operator, modelled on by countries with a developed public passenger transport system, is essential for more efficient and quality public passenger transport, which will reduce the need for daily car mobility and will be more attractive to its users. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The impact of transport on mobility, especially on the carbon footprint in Slovenia, is remarkable. In particular, from this point of view, when it is pointed out that families in the country spend a large part of their income on individual transport, which is a dispersed settlement, which is a clear reflection of this situation somewhere in Slovenia, it is therefore very important to say that public passenger transport, which is fast, accessible and needs of the population, must be strongly activated, clearly, as I have already said, and from this point of view, this issue should not be disputed and should not be considered in the case of the left Social Democrats. It is true, however, that the Government is in a hurry, and this is no longer just an observation, but a fact. We are already deep in the pre-election period, and we now have legislation and proposals coming to us from the parliamentary groups that could certainly be proposed in the legislative process earlier. The traffic situation, as well as the carbon impact on transport, confirms our words just before the end of the mandate. It is already a vague view of all the proposals that we will decide today to make it clear that these are laws that the rulings want to adopt regardless of the opinion of the opposition, society, the professional public. One of the proposals is the Law on the Management of Public Passenger Transport, which states that it is necessary to set up a public passenger transport company if we want to implement the transport development strategy in Slovenia by 2030 or to complete a comprehensive national, energy and climate plan by 2030. If the legislative proposal is adopted, it will also establish an appropriate legal framework to ensure effective management of public passenger transport in Slovenia. The aim of legal matter is to set up a passenger transport company in the form of a company with that responsibility in 100 % of the ownership of the country. I could say that this is another sign of which we can mark as good and necessary, but as with any proposal that comes under the government's press, this proposal also has some solutions where the Social Democrats remain restrained and sceptic. In the parliamentary group, we have studied the law, examined it and found that we do not see any more detailed explanations and projections in the proposal. We are also plagued by many questions — what are the reasons or grounds on which the company’s seat has been decided or envisaged? In the light of the decentralisation of Slovenia, we do not object to the fact that the headquarters and administrative authorities are moving from Ljubljana, but that the proposed solution raises doubts and questions with us. That's what I'd like to say. I'm from Celje and Celje has a DARS seat. This is a beautiful prestigious building in our town of Celje, where there are spiders and spiders and empty rooms probably a ficus and otherwise the dars operates and operates in Ljubljana in Vienna 7. I hope that there will not be any other institutions that we will move across Slovenia, which has a very positive one. But I'll say it in the end. We are not assessing the legislative proposal on the basis of one proposed solution, which, although it raises doubts for us when I have mentioned the issues, but on the basis of all solutions and an integrated change, whether the law is disputed or not, although the law is not expressly opposed to the support of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, again. The main objective of the law is to establish a public passenger transport management company d. o. o. in 100 % of the country's ownership. One of the main solutions and changes compared to the current regime is the granting of public authority to a company to provide economic public service, public line transport of passengers, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill amends the current public passenger financing system. This will ensure financial integration within the framework of the Public Passenger Transport Management Company by collecting and managing public passenger transport financing in a single account. [[Incomprehensible]] Furthermore, the proposal for a law applies the principle of an integrated public passenger transport offer in accordance with which public passenger transport services provided by the Republic of Slovenia as an economic public service linked to a single, complementary offer based on physical, information, tariff and management integration and is adapted to the development and needs of passengers. The responsibility for managing and caring for the development of the single ticket system is also transferred to the public passenger transport management company for greater efficiency and further development. In order to achieve greater coordination of timetables, the power to plan, coordinate and confirm the timetables for cross-border bus transport is also delegated to the public passenger transport company, as well as to the transport of passengers by rail. 25. Article 25 of the Law allows local communities wishing to provide a higher standard of public transport to encourage the use of public passenger transport and reduce the number of passenger cars, co-financing, the provision of public service. In New Slovenia-Christian Democrats we are convinced that public passenger transport must become an effective, fast and comfortable alternative to car transport. It is necessary to shorten travel time, coordinate timetables as much as possible, regulate crossing points and accessibility of stations, and introduce modern payment solutions. Integrated management of all forms of public passenger transport, the production of a single application, the introduction of a digitalised single ticket for public passenger transport, the concept of mobility as a service are measures that form part of this law and that is why Members of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Reich, right? Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u176	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Public passenger transport, which must be efficient and affordable, and locationally accessible, plays a particularly important role in sustainable mobility. We know that personal traffic, which one can tame by choice, offers the greatest flexibility and comfort, is difficult to overcome. They must do their part here, both individually and in the country. Each of us must be aware that by cancelling part of the comfort and use of public passenger transport, it contributes its share to the achievement of the environmental objectives and commitments. On the other hand, by investing in the system and transport infrastructure and targeted measures, the State must ensure that public passenger transport remains attractive and that the possibility of people deciding on it is increased. In the SAB, we believe that infrastructure and mobility must be developed in the direction of quality public transport, e-mobility and community use. It is extremely important that railways once again become the main backbone of transport and that, accordingly, most of the cargo and trucks are diverted to trains. Traffic on the road network would subsequently relax, emissions would be reduced. Public passenger transport, however, must become an effective backbone of everyday human transport and should be given adequate attention, and a new level must be raised and it must be made environmentally neutral as soon as possible. We have undoubtedly contributed to the increased accessibility and popularisation of public passenger transport in the SAB during this mandate. The most undoubtedly successful legalisation of free transport by inter-terranean buses and trains, which were adopted by our presidents during the ministerial period, mag. Brothers who benefit from pensioners over 65 years of age, disabled persons and war veterans. We have also introduced a law in the legislative process, which would also provide free transport for these categories in urban passenger transport, even though the legal proposals have not received sufficient support, we believe that we have succeeded, since pensioners and the rest of the city buses can be transported free of charge in Ljubljana and Maribor. In the SAB we will continue to fight to ensure that urban passenger traffic for all these categories becomes free in all those municipalities that currently have paying city lines. We also want to add young, students and students to the beneficiaries of free inter-national and urban transport. We estimate that such a measure will give a positive signal to increase the use of public and ultimately sustainable transport and will make an important contribution to achieving environmental objectives. Public passenger transport in Slovenia in general poses a number of problems, among which are mainly unstable financing and dispersion of management. Also, practice has shown that one of the main shortcomings in public passenger transport regulation is the accessibility of the operator. The establishment of a public passenger transport management company, which will take the legal form of a limited liability company and will be owned by the State in 100%, is welcomed in the SAB Group. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u178	Dear Members, distinguished representatives of the government. We have before us a proposal for a law on the management of public passenger transport, which seeks to establish an appropriate legal framework to ensure effective public passenger traffic management in the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of this proposal is to establish a company for the management of public passenger transport in the form of a company with limited liability in 100 % of the country's ownership and, consequently, to establish a 3-level public passenger transport organisation. In developed public passenger transport countries, in particular in the Member States of the European Union, the public passenger transport organisation is set up at 3 levels, the first strategic level at which legislation is adopted, establishes accessibility, capacity and provides funding in the form of subsidies, bonuses and the like, the second tactical level plans, organises and supervises the delivery of transport services and the third is the operational level at which transport services are provided. At the strategic level, the country is primarily operational, the carriers are operational and the tactical level is intended to fall within the operator's competence. The public passenger transport system is currently only set up at 2 levels in Slovenia, the strategic and tactical level is united under the jurisdiction of the country and the operational level is carried out by carriers. Therefore, one of the main shortcomings of public passenger transport arrangements in Slovenia is the absence of an entity that would play a part in the operator at the tactical level. As appropriate organisational forms in which a public passenger operator could be established, there were 4 options: the Ministry, which would maintain the current established state, directorate, public agency or limited liability company owned by the State. The last legal and organisational form has proved to be the most appropriate. Thus, the public passenger transport management company, as provided for by this law, will be a new legal entity from the Ministry and will represent the tactical level of the organisation of the public passenger transport system and provide a higher degree of autonomy, efficiency and quality in the management of public passenger transport. The main competences of the company will be to plan public passenger transport in the light of needs, i.e. to design transport services and plan their financing, to participate in the development strategy, to prepare professional bases, to manage the single ticket system, to provide information to passengers and to promote public transport, and to participate in the planning of the development of passenger infrastructure and infrastructure for complementary passenger services. One of the main solutions and changes compared to the current arrangements is the granting to the management company the competence to prepare and carry out procedures for the provision of services for the economic public service of cross-border road and rail line transport, contract conclusion and supervision of the implementation of contracts concluded. Much is said about the importance of the adoption of today's law, which shows that 68% of trips are carried out by passenger cars, while only 4.5% of all trips are carried out by public transport. The proposal for a law on the management of public passenger transport thus means a first step towards ensuring effective passenger traffic management in Slovenia and thus increasing the number of passengers using public transport. We will therefore, in particular, support this bill's proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The development of the transport system in Slovenia has in the past been mainly in the direction of improving road infrastructure and consequently improving mobility for passenger vehicle users, while public passenger traffic has stagnated more or less. As a result of this development, users who do not have their own car are poor mobility, and as a result, we are also witnessing traffic congestion, environmental pressures with emissions and noise and poor traffic safety. On the other hand, we are facing enormous increases in housing prices in the capital and more remote regions are not attractive to stay because of poor public passenger transport. Renovation of public passenger transport is so necessary as, inter alia, it will increase the quality of other regions as locations for residence, education and work. Clearly, we need time and economically attractive public passenger transport in Slovenia, for which we need an operator that will ensure uniform and effective measures and successfully manage all types of public passenger transport. While the provisions for the management and implementation of public passenger transport are already covered by the sectoral legislation and by-laws, the powers are inextricably divided between the national and local levels. The public passenger transport system is currently weak in Slovenia and management is facing a number of problems. In spite of the establishment of a single ticket system, which includes all carriers providing an economic public service for the cross-border bus transport of passengers and the transport of passengers by rail under the jurisdiction of the State, the organisation and management of these transport services has not yet been unified within one operator. The purpose of the bill, which is now on our benches, is therefore to establish a company for the management of public passenger transport in the form of a company with limited liability in 100 % of the ownership of the country, which will combine management functions in one body. The main competences of the company will be to plan public passenger transport in the light of needs, to design transport services and to plan their financing, to participate in the development strategy, to prepare professional bases, to manage the single ticket system, to provide information to passengers and to promote public transport. The law will therefore establish a uniform way of managing public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia and will regulate the basic principles and objectives of management with a view to ensuring the effective implementation of public passenger transport. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that effective public passenger transport is an important indicator of a developed society and is ultimately also important for an older population that is less mobile as such. It is also important to remember our ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jani Ivanuša, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nice greetings again to all present in the hall. During the last period, much has been done for our passengers in the field of public passenger transport, but less for public carriers who have literally remained in Covid-19 since there were no tourists due to various measures and, consequently, there were no driving, among other things. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that we currently do not have a public passenger transport manager in Slovenia to ensure that all types of public passenger transport are carried out in a uniform, efficient and efficient manner. The aim of the bill is to set up a society, as we have already heard, which will be organised as a limited liability society. We believe that Slovenia needs support to implement a structural reform that will improve public passenger transport, which will be good for both our passengers and carriers. The bill thus constitutes a stepping stone for better organisation and management of public passenger transport. Indeed, the last good time still faces many problems and obstacles at every step. In our minds, we have first and foremost unstable financing, but various risks on the part of carriers, which depend on the number of tickets sold and could even list a number of anomalies. It is a wish that the system of integrated public passenger transport is more implemented, where the use of public transport will be simplified for our passengers either by train, bus and also affordable. It will also have to be an effective control over the provision of public passenger transport services, particularly the financing of transport services. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess the need to ensure transparency of business and also to have effective control over the use of budgetary resources from our tax money. On the other hand, our passenger transport system is underdeveloped and efficient, which further burdens our environment. It seems to us that there is strict adherence to the principle of environmental sustainability, which we have been talking about all the time here in this temple of democracy. [[Incomprehensible]] In addition, greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia must be reduced, which will have a rather beneficial impact on climate change. The fact is that bus and train coordination will also improve the supply of public passenger transport, and it is also important that public passenger transport services are continuously and continuously carried out, which will be good for our citizens. The law also follows the shortest possible period of time or that our passengers will reach from home to school or to work or vice versa within an hour and a half. The red thread in the supply of public passenger services is that it adapts constantly to the development and needs of passengers. In short, the uniform timetable in one place should convince Slovenians that they will use public passenger transport more and will make it easier to plan their way through our beautiful Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we welcome the prepared proposal for a law on the use of public passenger transport by emergency procedure. Countries with a developed public passenger transport system have a three-level organisation. The first is the strategic level and is represented by the country which adopts and finances legislation in this area. The second level is tactical and is represented by public passenger operators operating this area. In accordance with the legislation, it plans, organises and supervises the implementation of the transport undertaking which plans, organises and supervises the implementation of the legislation for transport undertakings that provide for the provision of transport services. The third level is operational and is represented by carriers or transport companies providing transport services. In some cases, country-by-country practices are combined at the second and third levels and there is nowhere to be found when the first and second levels are combined, which means that they are a united country and a controller, as is currently regulated in Slovenia. In most countries, these levels are separate. And this is exactly the kind of arrangement in Slovenia that causes little trouble and problems. Slovenia does not have an established entity to play the role of the operator at the tactical level. To date, more options have been explored how an operator could be organised. Because in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that, as in many other unregulated areas, which we have jointly well settled in these two years, there is a need to regulate things here in the field of public transport, passengers. We are of the same opinion that, as in many other areas where there was creaking on the ground and spending money on studies and a constant expensive search for solutions. It is necessary to take a step forward and to introduce arrangements at this second level within a professional organisation aimed at allowing rapid market response and improving the adaptation of public passenger transport to the needs of passengers. In addition, such a form will allow the professional organisation to finance itself also through market sources of funding, not only with resources from the State budget or taxpayers' money. It will allow for more flexible mechanisms to ensure the necessary staff of a limited liability company, as it is not subject to employment restrictions, as is the case with the forms falling within the public administration system. With this arrangement, we want to enable the public passenger management company to obtain a motivated and highly qualified staff to carry out the public passenger transport professional tasks. During this time, a call for new concessions will be made under the so-called gross model, supported by passenger transport operators, and it is all the more necessary that we finally regulate this area and for the benefit of passengers or users, as well as carriers. The main emphasis is that carriers will be paid by way of a km of road, while the operator will set timetables, sell tickets and collect financial flows, control the quality of public passenger traffic and so on. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in our and on behalf of citizens and citizens using public passenger transport support in one voice the main purpose and purpose of the bill to establish a company for public passenger transport in the form of a company with limited liability, in a 100 per cent state ownership, which will combine tactical management functions in one body. In particular, we give him full support because one of the main changes and solutions compared to the current regulation, the granting of powers to this company to prepare and implement procedures for the provision of services to the public inter-country, road and rail services, the conclusion of contracts and the exercise of control over the implementation of concluded contracts signed with local communities and the private sector. It seems very important to us that the State, in order to carry out its profits from any other economic activities related to public passenger transport, has to invest exclusively in financing the management of public passenger transport. To conclude, once again, I would like to stress the urgency of the adoption of this bill. [[sign for the end of the debate]] on the management of public passenger transport, in order to finally establish conditions and bases for the establishment of a strong public passenger traffic operator following the example of countries with a developed passenger transport system. This will at last be very serious in practice and really close to frequently spoken sentences on sustainable mobility, carbon and climate change, which are often, according to our assessment, intended for various personal and customer self-promotions and the acquisition of cheap political points [[sign for the end of the debate]] as a serious purpose, taking care of the environment, nature and climate. Modern, orderly, efficient, flexible, faster and safer public passenger transport will reduce the need for daily car mobility, be more friendly to nature and the environment and much more attractive to its users. The proposal for a law on the management of public passenger transport will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Lenart will present as the last position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u186	Thank you, dear colleague. The preservation of a healthy environment, the adoption of measures and environmental policies, the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in the European mechanisms for limiting climate change, which confront the greatest global threats of the 21st century, have always been the priorities of the LMŠ Group, regardless of whether we act as a coalition or opposition party. As a coalition party in the government of Marjana Sarca, we participated in the preparation of a sustainable and environmentally oriented coalition agreement and budget documents, confirmed a renewed comprehensive national and [[?]] It's an energy agreement. As a reflection of commitments to establish a safe, modern, cost-effective and sustainable infrastructure, we have moved the construction of a second track between Divac and Kopro from a dead point, prepared a novel of the Road Transport Act, which introduced free line transport for pensioners, for older than 65 years of age, disabled persons, veterans of war, and for students and students with sports status. In the light of the measures taken and taken, we have also maintained an environmentally oriented attitude in the LMŠ Group as an opposition party and opposed all environmentally harmful government proposals, noted the impermissibility of overriding capital interests over the interests of a healthy living environment and nature conservation and pursued the objective of a precautionary principle that constitutes a shift towards risk management in the sense that a policy or measure should not be implemented if there is any possibility that it could cause harm to the public or the environment, and if there is no scientific consensus on this conscious issue, policy or measure. Activities relating to the establishment of a public passenger traffic operator, which, of course, represents a key solution to the proposed laws, were already taking place at the time of the government of Marjan Šarc in 2019. To this end, a new Law on Road Transport was prepared, which was sent for public consultation and envisaged the establishment of a public passenger transport agency. By means of the law in question, the applicant shall establish the legal basis for the establishment of public passenger operators, in the form of a limited liability company, which he has chosen on the basis of the analysis carried out as the most appropriate form for the establishment of a public passenger transport company. [[Incomprehensible]] In the same legal matter, the proposer also noted that, of all the other forms analysed, the Ministry, of course, was the agency's choice of limited liability in terms of greater transparency in the use of budgetary resources, was the least appropriate choice. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware that public passenger transport is one of the pillars of sustainable mobility that affects the reduction of passenger transport and thus the achievement of energy savings and greenhouse gas emissions and increased road safety and congestion. However, we cannot support the proposed law because we believe that achieving environmental objectives and commitments should not be a reason for making decisions that may increase untransparent and corrupt risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I see you don't. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A ROAD LEGISLATION IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u188	Dear Members and Members! The main purpose of the new Road Law is to transpose Directive 2019/1936 on improving road infrastructure safety. This Directive builds on existing provisions which lay down minimum standards in the field of road infrastructure safety. The implementation of road infrastructure safety assessments also extends to certain state roads in the management of the Republic of Slovenia Infrastructure Directorate, while giving particular emphasis to vulnerable road users, i.e. pedestrians, motorists, cyclists. The fact is that the current Road Law was adopted already in 2010. Although the law has been amended several times during this period, the individual provisions in the existing law have become somewhat obsolete and less effective and should be updated, upgraded and adapted accordingly. In addition, following the entry into force of the Roads Act, certain new system and sectoral laws have been adopted, such as district construction, spatial, geodetic and environmental legislation. Therefore, some of the solutions in the law relating to those laws have become inconsistent, which must be aligned with the applicable systemic and sectoral laws. The bill regulates the removal of damaged or damaged vehicles from the network of motorways and fast roads and redefines video surveillance of road traffic. This is an important area that needs regulation in the field law. The law clearly defines the purposes for which the video control system allows the processing of personal data and purposes for which this is not permitted. The law is very similar in its content to the present, but important substantive corrections have been made in the field of certain areas. Among other things, in the area of removal of damaged vehicles, video surveillance and other areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u190	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! At its 58th emergency meeting, held on 4 April 2022, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal of the Roads Act as the working body. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, explained that the key reason for drafting the bill is the transposition of the directive amending the Directive on improving the safety of road infrastructure. This Directive builds on the provisions already in force which lay down minimum standards in the field of road infrastructure safety. Particular emphasis is placed on vulnerable road users, such as cyclists, pedestrians and motorists, and regular and exceptional road safety checks, rights and obligations of stakeholders involved in the road safety assessment process and the way in which the road safety judge is selected. He also pointed out that the law's proposal is very similar to that currently in force, and the key changes relate in particular to the removal of damaged or damaged trucks from motorways and fast roads. Video surveillance of road traffic, compensation for damage caused by road infrastructure, in the event of overload of freight vehicles, obligations of the road manager due to excessive noise load, restrictions on road use, regulation of traffic and establishment of restricted speed areas, and legalisation of road connections built before 1 July 2011. Representative of the Legal and Legal Service, mag. Saša Bricelj Podgornik explained that, in its written opinion, the Law-Legal Service had first highlighted general comments relating to several articles relating to the terminological non-compliance of the proposed text, inadequate reference and insufficient explanation. However, comments were also made to individual articles. She stressed that amendments had been prepared and tabled by coalition parliamentary groups following the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, with the exception of the amendment to Article 7, where the text of the whole article was amended after the proposal had been aligned with the proposal, but not taken into account with the proposal already harmonised revision of paragraph 9 of this Article. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports and does not have substantive comments on the proposed legislative solutions. However, he raised some open questions regarding public road advertising, lack of roadside resting places, and inadequate design of certain road facilities. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a larger number of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Following is the position of the groups of Members, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As the first to receive the word, Mr Mikhael Prevc, will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u192	Thanks again for saying that. The amendment of the Roads Act transposes the implementation of the amendment of the European Union Directive on improving road infrastructure safety into the Slovenian legal order. This changes the individual provisions concerning the minimum safety requirements of road infrastructure and extends the assessment of road safety to so-called primary roads in the management of the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia. More emphasis is placed on vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians, cyclists and motorists. The New Testament also introduces some new terms and concepts. One of these is the concept of a protected parking lot. The term road land replaces the current term road world and denotes the plot on which the road is built with all components. The uncategorised road used for public road transport is a private road owned by a natural or legal person. According to the new term, the area of the road is defined as an area which, on a horizontal plane, covers road land and bilaterally protected belts. The maintenance and reconstruction of the road, however, are expressions which define the permissible scope of works in individual parts, in accordance with the rules governing the construction of buildings. The maintenance works are therefore those works on public roads that do not alter the capacity of the road, the size of its individual parts, the volume of installations, equipment and other infrastructure in the road area. Construction of economic infrastructures and facilities in the area of the country of the road may only take place under conditions and manner determined by the agreement of the road operator which does not permit the construction of buildings and facilities of the public economic infrastructure on the road, provided that these facilities significantly impede its maintenance or prevent its future development. In the light of several initiatives on the tightening of public road advertising, the drafter decided to regulate the advertising and informing users of road infrastructure in 2 separate articles in order to be more clear, while maintaining the applicable public road advertising system. While the draft law was being drafted, initiatives were taken to prohibit advertising from the protected zone along state roads outside the village, but in the meantime the Law on the Regulation of Space, which already prohibits advertising on areas outside inhabited areas, such as agricultural, water or forest areas, was adopted. However, this bill regulates the sanctioning of violations in the field of advertising in such a way that fines for advertising areas are up to 5 square metres lower because in the past inspectors have not decided to sanction smaller economic operators due to prescribed high fines. Therefore, more effective control and sanctioning of offenders is expected. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will certainly support the Bill on Roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the Group specifically. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State, and present. The reason for the drafting of the new text of the Roads Act lies in the transmission of the content of the Directive on improving the safety of road infrastructure in Slovenia's legal order. The Directive builds on existing provisions laying down minimum standards for road infrastructure safety and extends the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) to so-called primary roads under the management of the Republic Infrastructure Directorate. An additional reason for the drafting of the new text is also the fact that certain provisions in the existing law are partly obsolete and less effective and need to be updated and adapted to the current situation. In addition, a number of novelties have been adopted following the implementation of the Road Law and some solutions have simply become incompatible. The bill therefore does not introduce substantial new solutions in the area of public road management, but the existing provisions are being adapted to the amended European legislation. At the same time, new legislation is being adapted to individual provisions, especially in the area of building buildings. It is also proposed that certain solutions or simplifications of procedures that have proven to be flawed during the period of validity of the law may be improved or adapted to the actual situation in practice. The most important objectives which are now and are pursued by this law are ahead of us and, if I mention them a little: the establishment of a sustainable road infrastructure that will meet the social, economic and environmental needs, the raising of safety standards related to road infrastructure, the optimal use and rational and safe use of existing road infrastructure, the harmonisation of national rules with European Union rules, the legal regulation of public road infrastructure, the more cost-effective organisation of the construction, management and maintenance of state roads, and the greater clarity and certainty of individual legal provisions that will contribute to greater legal security of road infrastructure users. Some new expressions in this area are also introduced, or certain expressions are modified and defined in more detail. The term road land replaces the current term road world and denotes the plot on which the built road with all components recorded in the plot’s land cadastra and marked with a plot number. The uncategorised road and the uncategorised road used as a term for public road transport are owned by a new private road or by natural or legal persons. As has already been said, the proposal of the Act is very similar to that currently in force in 2010, but the key changes concern, if any, the following: the removal of damaged goods from the motorway, video surveillance of road traffic, the obligations of the road manager due to excessive noise loads, the charging of compensation for damage caused by road infrastructure, in the event of congestion of freight vehicles, restrictions on road use, the experimental marking of traffic arrangements on public roads, the notification and advertising of public roads, the allocation of traffic regulations and the establishment of restricted speed areas, the redefinition of inspection measures, the greater determination of criminal decisions and could also be mentioned. In any case, we believe that this bill is needed and confirmed, so in the Group of Members we will specifically support the Roads Bill because, as we say, this amendment is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will be next in line to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In Slovenia we have about 39,000 km of public road network, covering both municipal and state roads. Traffic safety is one of the most important aspects of road transport, and unfortunately we cannot be satisfied with this situation in this area. There are several factors that reduce traffic safety. The country has been proactive in this area throughout its activities. The main reason for the new text of the Roads Act, which is before us today, is the transmission of content resulting from the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on improving the safety of road infrastructure. On the basis of this Directive, the individual provisions concerning minimum safety requirements of road infrastructure shall be amended. The road safety assessment is also extended to so-called primary roads in the management of the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, new procedures or safety checks are being introduced, which are already being carried out in the framework of the existing road safety review. This area covers the safety assessment for the entire network, targeted roadside inspection and the like. The additional emphasis is also on vulnerable road users such as pedestrians, cyclists and motorists. In addition to the implementation of the directive itself, on this occasion it intervenes in some other areas with a view to establishing a sustainable road of infrastructure that meets social, economic and environmental needs. The proposal also adapts to amendments to other laws, thus further regulating or delimiting individual works within public roads, in conjunction with the legal provisions of construction legislation. The scope of individual works that can be carried out on public roads is defined as regular maintenance works, maintenance works, maintenance works for public benefit, reconstruction and new construction of the road. Amendments are also introduced in the field of inspection provisions. In order to improve the efficiency of the inspection bodies, they shall be responsible for the roads identified by the types of inspection measures used in the management of the inspection of public roads. In the context of adapting existing legal solutions with a view to a clearer delimitation, the existing legal provision on information and advertising by road shall be limited to two separate provisions, namely the provision governing the user information system and the advertising provision. The draft law also intervenes in the area of charging compensation for excess of axle loads and for existing road connections an assumption is established from a given agreement on road connections. In the Desus Group, we have no comments on the proposed text and we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Jani Ivanusha again. He will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. The Road Law proposal is a purely new system law that has emerged for more than a year. To the greatest extent, the comments made by many stakeholders and public road managers, which were constantly incorporated into the content of the emerging law, were taken into account. In Slovenia, we clearly need additional safety requirements precisely in the sensitive field of road infrastructure in order to improve its safety not only as a letter on paper but mainly in practice on the ground. In the Slovenian National Party, we are inclined for the directive to give greater weight to vulnerable road users. I have in mind mainly pedestrians, cyclists and motorists, whom we will now meet more and more on Slovenian roads in good weather. One of the reasons for the new law is that certain legal solutions have become inconsistent and need to be aligned with geodetic, spatial, construction and environmental legislation. We must follow the objective of having a sustainable road infrastructure that will be able to meet the social, economic and environmental needs of our citizens and citizens. The safety of the Slovenians involved in the road must be high in the Republic of Slovenia and we therefore support raising safety standards. In Slovenia we have somewhere better, elsewhere less developed road infrastructure, and the flow of vehicles is different during the day. We must strive to make the most of it and to use existing road infrastructure wisely and safely. We also consider the responsibility or concern of our road managers to be important for safety and public roads. At the same time, we must not forget legal regulation as regards the area of construction, management, maintenance, road safety on all our roads. We also miss a number of roadside resting places or arranged resting places, along regional roads, ahead of major international border crossings, especially in summer peaks, at the peak of the tourist season. It is also imperative to rehabilitate the old and to build new resting places as soon as possible, which will have tables, benches, and more so that passengers can stop, breathe fresh air, and be strengthened. The proper sanitation must also be clean, and passengers have the opportunity to pour pure drinking water. More than welcome is the 89th article of the bill providing for advertising along state roads. We agree with the second paragraph, which provides that the establishment or use of advertising facilities in the area of state roads outside the settlement is prohibited. Let us remind you that the Law on the regulation of premises, which already prohibits advertising on areas outside inhabited areas, i.e. on agricultural, water or forest areas, has already been adopted in the National Assembly. The bill is listed below, fully in line with the acquis of the European Union, and brings good solutions for the welfare of the Slovenian people on our roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Mr Rudi Medved will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A colleague and a colleague. The law strengthens safety requirements in the field of road infrastructure, in substance and technology, it recently adopts new legislation on the construction of environment and space, in that part directly linked to the installation, planning and construction of roads and road infrastructure. And that's good in this marriage. In the LMŠ Group we also draw attention to the unregulated and unsustainable situation in the field of road advertising. Slovenia in tourist ads ensures that our country's visit will be pleasant and unforgettable. But when anyone rides our roads, their view of the beautiful landscape hides the billboards every few meters. We have a Jumbo landscape. And if these panels, especially as an economic initiative, were to be understood somehow. We are breaking through through a wide variety of crises, and the economy is looking for a path to consumption in this way too. But no, we also have a jumbo government. Over the past two years, the ruling coalition has almost launched an economic initiative from these boards. So I'm surprised that the final text of the law turned out to be a 50-metre belt where advertising would be banned. The SDS, NSI and former SMC ministers, who have been warning themselves since the beginning of this government, have, of course, not been in favour of any such ban. The ban on advertising remains limited only to the area of the state road outside the settlement, and only after a few years, which means that the current situation is practically maintained. The vortex ministry in the final proposal of the Roads Act did not simply abandon the tightening of the advertising ban that Dars is calling for, and so on, all institutions dealing with traffic safety, but even proposes leave for violators. That's how we have a real wild west in this area, and we'll have one. Advertisers bring trailers, swimming pools, even ship's containers to agricultural land. Moreover, a unique, unique symbol of the Slovenian landscape is used for panorama carriers, which is a goat. The relationship with the goats is broken. 90% of them fail or serve only as advertisers. Partly, it corrects the Law on the Regulation of Space, but only two years from now, but let us not blind ourselves to something much better then, as it will also not be possible to remove existing panels that have a building and usable permit from then on. This transitional period is what just calls advertisers for new and new advertising receptions on our roads, so it will not be better, in a year or two it will be even worse. It is because there is absolutely no will for the rulings to truly and comprehensively regulate road advertising, we will not support this law in the LMŠ.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler will be presented as the last position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u202	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we will decide on two legislative proposals in the area of infrastructure, at the previous point we discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Use of Public Passenger Transport, and at this point we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Roads. And like the proposal at the previous point, it is also now being addressed and coming from the types of government and it is being dealt with so-called five before twelve, but nothing about it, it is important that the problems are being solved. This does not mean that we have not studied and read the law in the SD Group, but why it is actually changing this law. The applicants note that the law is needed because the content resulting from the European Union Directive on improving the safety of road infrastructure is being transposed, and the law is particularly needed because the law currently in force has been amended several times over the last 10 years, although the individual provisions in the existing law are partly obsolete and less effective, so they need to be updated, modernised and adapted to the current situation. And if adopted, the proposal will pursue the objectives of establishing sustainable road infrastructure, raising safety standards, harmonising national rules with the rules of the European Union and the wider public and defining specific legal provisions, which is, of course, okay and right. It is certainly not a matter of shorter law, and the solutions that are proposed are quite complex and broad, but when the proposal is found, we have come up with some solutions that we welcome. Above all, we are pleased, as has been said several times before, that after so many years and initiatives and pressures have been put in place, so-called road advertising and information is regulated. First, the movement in this area has been made by amending the Law on the regulation of premises, and now this problem is being addressed in the law under consideration. In fact, road advertising was not only dangerous and disruptive for all road users, we could finally say that we already had a very common advertising pollution, which in certain areas has already affected the image of our cultural landscape. Members and Members of the Social Democrats welcome some of the solutions that the law brings, but we are particularly pleased that road advertising has been regulated or that there has been an inter-legislative arrangement in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u203	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendment tabled to be carried out in accordance with Article 134(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendments of the LMŠ and the Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want a word? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Rudy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Vice President. Indeed, in my presentation of the position of the LMŠ Group, I said that, in fact, most of the solutions in this law were necessary good, necessary, but, of course, the ruling coalition could not go beyond imposing something in this law, and, of course, it planted it because it was already an old practice. And, in fact, it is a direct attack on Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. They're so full of mouths they're worried about people, about the economic initiative, aren't they, but right here, right now, they're stifling the economic initiative of those little entrepreneurs, the little craftsmen. What's this all about? On Slovenian highways and fast roads, it has been stipulated for several years that Dars has a monopoly on the choice of operator for the removal of broken, heavy vehicles, mainly trucks, off highways or areas of fast roads, which is right, because we know that in the past there have been a variety of abuses, at half-mafia receptions in this and this is resolved in a good way. But why, for God's sake, this good solution needs to be upgraded now by this attack on all those craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have the right equipment and can drive the broken vehicles out of highways and fast roads, under the weight of 3 000 500 kilograms, that is, passenger cars, vans and so on. And now, to some hundreds of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, Members of Parliament, with this subjugation, Members of the coalition, with this subjugation, are literally incapacitated. I don't know why. Why is that good? They say it's a matter of public interest. What public interest? It is essentially sand in the eyes that you favor some companies again in public interest, probably already agreed, which will do so and, of course, also personal vehicles will drive them out of the highways, because what condition you invented – that they must have an operator, even for that car, for 600 or 700 kilograms, at least two vehicles for the transport of vehicles 3 thousand 500 kilograms, at least a vehicle for the transport of vehicles 7 thousand 500 kilograms and at least one vehicle for the removal of vehicles 44 thousand kilograms of total weight, in order to take them away from the highway passenger car, heavy ton, ton or half. Incomprehensible, unreasonable and, in fact, the actual destruction of an entrepreneurial initiative, and of course of all these assistants [[?]] , the many different contracts that people have in case you're on the road, cancel your car or it's a car accident and, of course, you're expecting help then and as soon as possible, you're taking the car out of this area and you're practically preventing it now. Now, obviously, we can wait hours and hours by the highway, if anything happens, not to say the day that someone shows up, the one that also has a vehicle of 44,000 kilograms of total mass, and take this car off the highway. All these service providers or service providers are keenly interested in reacting quickly. And we do not have any data to specifically warn the DARS that there are now some problems in driving these vehicles below 3,000 500 kilograms. DARS did not mention this anywhere. So there is absolutely no justification why we would do this, nothing except that the public interest will prevail over the private or on the contrary, private interest has taken over the public in this case. These conditions are now such that these passenger vehicles will be taken off the highway by those already selected by the DARS on the last call for the transport of cargo vehicles. Now they will also be fulfilling the conditions for the transport of personal vehicles. So an unreasonable, lifeless, completely lifeless solution. I don't know why you piss people off with things like this, because this isn't just about craftsmen, because it's about all of us, we find ourselves in this situation on the highway. But no, no, because apparently someone has removed the lobbying of these companies and, of course, has successfully abused them. I don't know, but the government supports this, it is now some parliamentary forum from the committee, or the government also supports this, given that it is, of course, as favoured by the economy as it speaks, and of course, an economic initiative. For example, did anyone talk to the people at the Chamber of Commerce about this? Probably nobody. And someone was talking to these companies that were maiming it. So we are investing together with the LMŠ and the Group of Unbound Members of Parliament this amendment to get out of this law, which I have already said at the beginning that there is not much to read, but to get this out of the way, we are already sick of saying, because for two years we have been talking, this plant out, we are going to purify this law, we are going to stop waving with the red dress of the craft and all the others who are going to be harmed alive, we are going to remove this from this law and it will be as digestible as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The text was also wanted by the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I would like to point out that the key task and key purpose of amending this law and all improvements is, of course, to increase transport safety and to improve the efficiency of all activities that contribute to the development of road infrastructure. Among other things, it is important to comply with other sectoral laws in order to adequately define how, in what way, video surveillance is carried out. Therefore, the removal of damaged and damaged vehicles on the motorway and the fast road, both for one segment and for both passenger and freight vehicles, is regulated so that compensation for the damage caused by the overloaded vehicles is regulated, so that the obligations of the operator due to the excessive noise load are primarily a matter of passive protection, i.e. it is also a very important acquisition and, of course, all those road connections built before 2011 which do not have the appropriate status. This would certainly be based on one of the perceptions in the presentation of positions, so that advertising is not addressed, it is not true. In our original conception or in our original law, which we designed and dealt with, there was also a restriction on advertising because we are aware that this is a problem to distract the driver’s attention between driving and all the participants. However, by adopting or amending the law on the regulation of premises, this is resolved in the right place. So it is right that such restrictions are imposed by the law on the regulation of premises. And here at this point, I certainly welcome these solutions and, at the same time, it is my opinion that it is also correct that the transitional period is fixed and that this provision of the Space Regulation Act starts to apply from 2024 so that all entities will also have the possibility of appropriate economic adjustments. The fact that we're giving some kind of discharge, I can't accept that either. I think it is right that all penalties, all sanctions, all fines are appropriate, appropriate heights and proportionate. And in doing so it is certainly important, we wanted to come across the entire economy, especially those who are weaker. We were also warned by the inspection services. In fact, we have larger and smaller economic operators and certainly fine someone who advertises a lot and is a large economic operator is right to be different from a local hairdresser, a local car repairman or someone who has a small advertising poster somewhere along the road or where he should not be. So it was only a matter of proportionality here and it would have an effect on this, so that it would have an appropriate disincentive, if it already happened to have an appropriate lesson, but not a smaller economic operator sinking. However, from this, the Chairs would allow me, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, to propose that the third hearing be held at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Recorded. Now, once again, he wanted to say the word, Mr Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u208	Thank you very much. There is no need to categorically reject the fact that advertising is not regulated. Of course it's not arranged. ZUREP already sort of handles this, but when. And we have warned that this interim period until the entry into force of the law on the regulation of premises is a completely open hunt for all these lands along the roads and that, at the entry into force of the law on the regulation of the premises, we will have an even larger jungle of these jumbo posters and billboard jumbos, which will simply not be removed because they will have all the necessary permits, all the necessary papers. So, two years is available for open hunting on even square meters along the roads as far as advertising is concerned. Of course you're giving away your leave, but what else? You know, penalties for violations are not social remedies. They're not. A misdemeanor is a misdemeanor. And now we're going to see who's weaker, who's stronger. It's a violation. Even if we drive too fast it's the same or there's a social adjustment, it says, but you have little income, and we'll charge you less. It's not like that. And we don't agree with that. This is a warning that this is a crime. But you didn't answer my question about the amendment we're putting in. Is the government also in favour of literally expelling craftsmen and entrepreneurs from the highway to carry out this activity? I didn't get any answers to that. I will not ask the MPs of the coalition, because of course they have returned it to the marriage and I have nothing to ask them. I am interested in the government's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u210	I can't agree that these are redundancies and that it doesn't make sense. A company that has 100 million revenue and that we claim that, say, 100, 200, 500 or 1,000 euros, that it has the same dissuasive effect so that it gives it the same lesson to a 100 million company and to a local craftsman, I cannot agree with it, and I believe that with some approach, we have the same effect on all economic operators, but on the other hand, we do not put them above all, particularly the weaker entity, I think that this is a much better approach. As far as the amendment is concerned, this was an amendment from the parliamentary groups. However, from the professional point of view of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Government does not have a special position on this part. Therefore, it will be crucial that the removal of all damaged vehicles and damaged vehicles be carried out in an appropriate manner and, as soon as possible, that the professional provision of the services is appropriate and I believe that both can be done in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr Rudi Medved would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u212	We are already used to such situations, in certain cases when coalition members are jumping by law with some impossible amendments, and then what are completely separate worlds. One is the Members, the other is the Government, but when you say that you are defending the position that, of course, the reaction or removal must also take place in these cases when there is a need to intervene in the transport of vehicles, that safety must be taken into account and, in the first place, absolutely both of us agree there is absolutely no dilemma at all. But was this put into law now on the basis of any results that the regime that the government is now causing, then I don't know, is reducing security and so forth? Because I would, in this case, be silent and in this case determined by the law at all, if, of course, there was something to justify that, so I am speaking practically in this case in fact on behalf of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, who, of course, will be significantly disadvantaged in this way, because these interventions are not little, despite the fact that we have the highway police after the new. I drive 50 kilometers in one direction every day on the highway or every day. We have a highway police, but it is true that there have been so many unfortunate highways as there have been in recent years, but I have never been driving for a long time in all sections, and we have highway police. I've never seen her before. I've never seen her intervene before. Ever since we got the highway police, I haven't seen the police on the road before. However, you have a decent director of the highway police that is true, but he is probably still setting up a working group through consultation with colleagues. So, I am not satisfied with such a flat-rate response and I must say that, of course, in the LMŠ and also in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we absolutely oppose this solution and believe that as soon as we have the opportunity, because of course now this will go through this Parliament, no matter what, but as soon as we have the option, we will go against craftsmen and entrepreneurs and we will certainly exclude it from this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and also the 99th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.12.) (The sitting resumed at 16.60)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u214	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The national assembly will vote in the following order: paragraphs 10, 8, 12, 1, 2, 9, 3, 7, 4, 5, 6 and 11 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of the Status of Students in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 6 April 2022, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the Groups of Non-Aligned Members, LMŠ, SD and SAB to Article 32. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, for 65, for 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted in second reading or third reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 68, against no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – third reading of the proposal for a law on the provision of financing for investment in sport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia from 2023 to 2027 under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the legislative and legal service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members, 58, against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 12th item of the agenda – the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Conversion of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering Novo mesto. In the second reading, no amendments to the proposed decision were tabled. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted, the proposal for a decision would not be harmonised at the meeting of the home working body. I also inform you that the assembly on the draft resolution under consideration will not decide at this meeting, as a proposal for an advisory referendum has been tabled with regard to the content of this motion for a resolution. In view of the substantive link between the two proposals and taking into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum should decide before finalising its decision on the draft decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda – second reading of the Proposal for an Law on Electronic Communications in the framework of an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 6 April 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 115. The amendment is linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 116. If this amendment is not adopted, that amendment shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ Group to Article 115 has not been adopted, it has become an amendment of the same proposal to Article 116 irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. In the second reading, the proposed amendment was not adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the bill would not be harmonised. I also inform you that the assembly will not take a decision on the draft law on this matter, as a proposal for an advisory referendum on the referendum has been tabled concerning the content of this Bill. In view of the substantive link between the two proposals and taking into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum should decide before finalising its decision on the Proposal for a Law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda – this is the third reading of the proposal for the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of Dars, d.d., from credits and debt securities leased or issued to finance motorway projects of up to EUR 392,44 million under the emergency procedure. Since, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the domestic working body of the bill would not have brought me into line. We're voting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Željko Cigler.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. I explain my opinion, my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u216	Anyone else on behalf of the emissary? [[No, no, ……]] Then you have your own. [[background votes]] You have your own name. You have the floor to explain your voice on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u217	The third development axis is necessary as soon as possible to connect, because it is its purpose, regional, economic centres, Slovenia Gradec, Velenje, Celje, Novo mesto, Črnomelj. And that the Korosks, the Zasavci, the Belokrans arrive as soon as possible with a secure flow of fast connections to the highway network. But I will vote against it. Why? Since I am taking into account the Court of Auditors' audit report, which has identified an inefficient management system by the Ministry of Infrastructure on this route from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac, that the Ministry of the Environment is partially putting the route ineffectively in place, due to the non-professional selection of the route, the non-compliance with EU directives, the lack of respect for the opinion of the public and local communities, and in particular the Ministry of Agriculture and the government expert commission, the co-financing of the project by the EU is virtually unlikely. Since the route, which is professionally inappropriate, irreparable, destroys agricultural land, forests, requires the demolition of more than 40 houses, families in Podgora, in Šmartnom, destroys protected habitats and, above all, removes water resources in Šmartno ob Paka. Since it is unacceptable from the point of view of public finances that the guarantee law will confirm the route from Arje village to Slovenj Gradac, which will cost €1 billion, the expert opinion and expertise which prepared the modernisation of the existing regional girl from Arje village to Slovenj Gradac would cost €270 million. It is practically the same as in the Income Act, where the parties, because of the negative impact on public finances, the opposition parties, rejected this law. This law will also practically result in damage to public finances of EUR 800 million or more. The Carinthias and the Belokrans will be waiting a long time for this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Housing Guarantee Scheme for Young People, under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. [[advertising from the hall]] Please be quiet. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Passenger Traffic Management, as part of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 6 April 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 29. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill, as part of the urgent procedure. I note that the assembly adopted the amendment to Article 29 of the amended bill for the second reading. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted to the second reading, the draft law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Dusan Šisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u219	President, I have no explanation for the vote. I suggest you speak very quietly to take off your mask, because after that microphone, no one will be sitting behind you, and we will hear better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u220	Okay. I agree. Exceptionally, there may be a last session. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Roads, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 6 April 2022, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the LMŠ and the Non-Aligned Members to Article 7. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Rudi Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u221	Thank you very much, President. Ambassadors and Members of the ruling coalition are truly masters of solutions with which you can anger people. And in such an innocent law as this Roads Act, there was once again a subjugation, how I already hate that word, and it must be repeated again and again. In view of what is wrong with the current regulation, the assistance on motorways and fast roads, the removal of damaged vehicles or carmbolized vehicles. DARS has a so-called monopoly on the transport or regulation of this area when it comes to heavy trucks, those with a total mass of over 3 tonnes and a half, and that is fine because we know that in the past there have been various irregularities, almost mafia transactions. But why drive off the highway and fast roads when offering this service to craftsmen and entrepreneurs, the Auto-Moto connection of Slovenia, because after your planted amendment you must now also for a vehicle weighing, I don't know, 700 kilos or 1 ton, the operator must have at least 2 vehicles with a weight for transporting 3,000 500 kilograms of heavy vehicles, and one vehicle for 7 thousand 500 kilograms and another vehicle for 44 thousand kilograms of total weight. So entrepreneurs, craftsmen who come to help when you're in trouble on the road, are now driven off the freeway. You say it's a matter of public interest. No, it's sand in the eyes. This is absolutely again a matter of defending the private interest of some companies, perhaps already agreed upon in advance, which have forced such an anomaly. That is why we have tabled this amendment together with unrelated Members of the LMŠ, because it is still possible to correct this madness in practice that has emerged in marriage. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Even government people here had no idea why this happened in marriage. They don't have a point of view and point to you that you've just filed this with the coalition MPs.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Market Regulation Act, within the framework of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 31 March 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 1. Mr Siter, explain to the vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u223	Yes, thank you very much for your word, President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. In Slovenia we have one set of pensioners, almost 100,000 pensioners living below the poverty line, 97 000 is the correct number. These are people who can't survive with pensions who can't tie the beginning of the month to the end of the month, who can't put a piece of bread on a table that can't pay all the bills. The current crisis, the energy crisis, the other poepidemic crisis, has affected them even more. The numbers on poverty between pensioners and pensioners are rising. And the pensioners can bizarrely go off to work if they can't survive with their hard-earned pensions, which they've worked for for 40 years. They can turn to the Institute of Retirement Work, just as students can do and work in the course of their studies. And these are pensioners, respected colleagues and colleagues who are not willing to work, but pensioners and pensioners who are forced to work are forced to survive, forced after 40 years of work, instead of enjoying a well-deserved pension, to put items on shelves, perhaps a factory, some family business, one way or another. Retired workers to work. And that is why, if we are to tolerate this as a society, we must at least make sure that their work is paid at least roughly. Or at least paid as much as the students and students are paid for their work in the framework of the student work. And all we do with the proposal you have with your colleagues and colleagues on the table is to equalize the pay of student work with the salary for retirement work, because there is no reason that pensioners should be paid 75 cents less per hour than students and students could be paid for the same job. So we only call after equal treatment of students, students and pensioners and pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 35. (For the vote was 28.)(against 35.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. (For the vote was 65.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – secondly on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 31. 3. 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 18. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present and 39 votes against 4. (For the vote was 39.)(against 4.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 6. (The vote was 41.)(against 6.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 18 and 21 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent. I also inform you that the assembly on the proposed law at this meeting will not decide, as a proposal for an advisory referendum has been tabled with regard to the content of this bill. In view of the substantive link between the two proposals and taking into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum should decide before finally deciding on the proposal for a law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – the second consideration of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 31. 3. 2022, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third reading law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. I also inform you that the assembly on the proposed law at this meeting will not decide as a proposal for an advisory referendum has been tabled with regard to the content of this bill. In view of the substantive link between the two proposals and taking into account Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum should decide before the final decision on the proposal for a law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 31. 3. 2022, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 10 in particular. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 12 in particular. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 19 in particular. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and, in particular, Article 62a. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and Article 67 in particular. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted in the third reading, the draft law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament? My friend Korazi.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u225	President, thank you for your word. In this mandate we have proposed five times in Levica a ban on fracking, which will also actually happen today with this adoption of the law, and in fact we have always been on the side of a small person or on the side of nature, it is said that fracking is prohibited and also that Prekmurje is allowed to have a better and better quality of life, as fracking itself also causes various health problems or serious diseases, as the region of Prekmurje is known, unfortunately, because it is the region that is the most affected by cancer or the most cancerous disease. We will support this law in Levica, precisely because it is definitively regulated to prevent fracking, but it is true that the law is not perfect and that there are still things that need to be done better or written, even when it comes to these mines and we will be very careful in the future, and we will also look closely at you, whatever you want to accept or whatever you want to put into the national assembly procedure, so is legislation. As it is said, once again, we will be in Levica because of the fact that it is being deleted or the fact that the cracking itself is being abolished, this law has been supported, and I would also like to point out in the end one fact that was at the time that this law was adopted or, even as we have suggested earlier, that it should be removed. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I please? [[advertising from the hall]] I'm talking Prekmurje, and they're laughing there, I mean, hello?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u226	No one's laughing, please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u227	And even the MP from Prekmurje, well, what did I say? [[…]] [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Now be quiet, okay, okay. Well, as it is said, it is also to protect itself as Prekmurje itself, and even then, we do not know who or why it was spreading some, I will say, nebulosis or also “fake news” after Prekmurje, in the sense that Levica wants to ban geothermal energy or just use, which she does not. We're in Levica for geothermal energy, but of course we're against [[sign for the end of the debate]] and strictly anti-freaking, what you wanted to achieve earlier, but then you saw that due to a vote that had already taken place at the previous meeting, that you would not achieve it and you also had to give up. And I'm happy for Prekmurje and I'm happy for Eastern Slovenia that we finally did something smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name, Primaj Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Well, we all understand that the centre, the content center of this law, is therefore a ban on fracking and I personally support in any case any effort towards abandoning fossil fuels, but as Sasavcan here, I must congratulate Prekmurks on his journey at such a good step, because the acquisition of fossil fuels, colleagues and colleagues is harmful at two levels. One, because fossil fuels, Co2 releases and all the insufferable and climate chaos that comes with it, the other is only the acquisition of fossil fuels; not only the use, but the acquisition of fossil fuels in the region, which requires its tax, which destroys not only the ecological region, but, as a result, the destruction entails its social map, economic and so on and so on and so on. I think that Zasavje is a fine example of this, after decades and centuries of mining, still looking for a new regional identity after twenty, thirty years of abandonment of fossil fuels, and asking what to do with the economy that is grazing, what to do with tens of thousands of people, with their jobs, [[sign for the end of the debate]] with their social status? And this is the question of a fair transition in practice that we have to ask ourselves in Zasavje, Prekmurje, in Pomurje or anywhere in Slovenia and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-04-06-SDZ8-Izredna-99.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present for 54 votes against none [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 99th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
