ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 95th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 20, first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Predrag Baković, Dr. Franz Runczek, just Bevk by 2:00, mag. Meira Hot until 11:00, Masha Kociper, Ferenc Horváth from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Carmen Furman from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Nada Brinovšek from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Suzanne Nice Šimenko from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Franz Jurša, Nick Prebil from 17 p.m., Jani Prednik from 12 p.m. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 95th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 11 February 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 4. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the agenda of the 95th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE INCOME OF THE LAW REFERENCE ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE ORGANISATION FOR COOPERATION IN THE ARRANGEMENT GROUP ON THE USE OF THE BOXER PROGRAMME WITH THE COUNTRIES OF OCCAR. On the basis of Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, a proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Tonin, Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, dear Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! In those days, the whole world is dealing with what will happen in eastern Ukraine. We deal with whether reason or emotion prevails. If he can overcome his sanity, of course we can avoid war. If the Russian leaders are going to use emotion, then we have an unpleasant situation that will affect not only Ukraine but the whole of Europe. That is why all together, the whole alliance of NATO is putting great effort into taking advantage of all the diplomatic opportunities that exist to achieve peace. Peace is our first and fundamental priority, and we also subordinate all activities to it. Armours purchased by the Slovenian Army are necessary for the safety of Slovenian soldiers. A lot of people wonder why, why. Slovenia is a responsible member of the international community and as such must ensure peace and security not only in its own country, but also in our wider and immediate surroundings. Slovenia, as a responsible member of the international community, is active in many areas, particularly in the Western Balkans, as well as in the Middle East, North Africa, as well as in Eastern Europe. Our soldiers are present in these areas because they want to contribute with their knowledge to the consolidation of peace, to the enhancement of security and not least, because this is also the way the interests of the Republic of Slovenia are realized. It is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia that peace in the Balkans, peace in North Africa, the Middle East and also in the East of Europe, because whatever happens in these areas, has direct consequences in Slovenia, first with migration and then with economic problems. It is therefore in our interest that our soldiers contribute to the preservation of peace in the wider and nearby environment. Of course, they must be well equipped and adequately trained. As far as skill is concerned, there's no problem. As for equipment, there has been a major problem in recent times. It is therefore essential that the process of modernisation begin and that this Slovenian domestic army is also adequately equipped. And the purchase of these 45 armored men is in this spirit and in this sense. The third indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the ratification laws of international treaties. The Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the OCCAR on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR is a law on the ratification of an international treaty between the Government and the organisation. Taking into account the legal basis mentioned above, the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the laws on the ratification of international treaties is not admissible. Therefore, the Government has also proposed to the National Assembly that it decide that the referendum is not admissible. This has also been clearly defined by the Legislative and Legal Service, which has very high quality and well justified the reasons why the referendum on the ratification of this international treaty is not admissible. The proposed initiative of the Left in view of the above is the exclusive abuse of the Institute of Referendum, which aims to prevent the modernisation of the Slovenian army, and another of the attempts of the Left to prevent the further development of the Slovenian army, and in the long term to ensure that the Slovenian army is fully expanded and eventually abolished. At the same time, it is most worrying that Left is in such an important area [[sign for the end of the debate]] As the defence of the country, it serves all possible instruments to prevent the modernisation that the Slovenian military urgently needs by stalling. Dear Members and Members, you can prevent this by voting as necessary in accordance with the Constitution and by allowing the modernisation of the Slovenian army.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everyone. At least we have these reasons in Levica why we will not support this decision. And I'll start where the Secretary of Defense started. Now the dilemma of an approaching war is, of course, serious and is a matter that needs to be carefully looked at. But I'd like to point out one key point here. I think that the crisis in Ukraine or this battle between these two imperialisms (the same Nate and that Russian) is talking about exactly why Slovenia's membership in the NATO Pact is wrong. Because if anything threatens us, it's just membership in the NATO Pact. Now we see the real consequence of what might happen. This concern of Minister Tonin is said to be a conflict that could lead to an escalation of the situation, could also involve Slovenia in this situation. And as Minister Tonin said, Slovenia, as a member of the NATO Pact, will send our soldiers to foreign battlefields with boxers if they buy them. And of course we don't want that. So that the purchase of such senseless iron, which is essentially not useful for the defence of the country as defined in the Constitution, is not meaningful for some principled reason. Second reason. We live in a time after two years of visible crisis, which is a strong principle not only of the health system but also of the social system, which is the principles of an educational system which is practically the principles of all public systems. Last week we were able to watch a sentence in health and social protection, a sentence in education is being predicted, people are facing darlings. Food prices are rising, energy prices are rising. What has the government done in these two years? One of the first steps was to adopt a law to spend 780 million euros on arms purchases. This was one of the first measures at a time when we had just begun to deal with the Covid crisis and, of course, it was continuing. What we are witnessing today is the question of whether we are going to buy some 50 armored 8x8 for about EUR 400 million, and this price is rising and exasperating, is something that is completely absurd and confused with the basic task that the state should perform. That is to say, not by all matters, to worry in the first place about the state's weapons capabilities, but to justify the State's role in its social and public functions. Thus, at this time, we should take care of the social state, public health, public education and, above all, citizens and citizens. Throwing €400 million into 8x8 armor will in no way help people to pay their bills more easily at this time, so that they can afford food, so that they can continue to train their children free of charge in the long term and still come to the doctor free of charge. And this leads me to the third argument why this decision proposed by the Government should not be supported, and this is essentially this international agreement, as they call it, far from being an international organisation. This is a consortium of countries that have joined together into a formation that will buy exactly one model of armored vehicle. If this is an international organisation that could be compared to, I don't know, the United Nations, the European Union, or if you want to go to the NATO Pact, it's totally absurd. So it's not an international agreement to connect Slovenia to some serious international organisation, but it's essentially some consortium of countries that are going to buy these armored persons. So this reasoning, that the referendum is inadmissible, because it is an international contract, is made of rye, but it speaks of how the Government operates. The government is afraid of people, we have seen this several times in these two years, and the governments that fear their own people are bad governments. So in Levica we advocate to make such important matters, [[sign for the end of the debate]] Like spending nearly half a billion euros in money on pointless arms purchases, people have to decide and give them the opportunity to do so, so we will vote against this decision to prevent the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Horvat for the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, Members of the New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms (OCCAR) on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR. Why should we vote in favour of this proposal for a decision? Because we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or more specifically, because we respect Article 90 or more precisely the third indent of Article 90 of the Slovenian Constitution, which states that there is no legislative referendum on the laws on the ratification of international treaties, and in this case this is a school case of an international treaty. Constant attempts to decommission the Slovenian army, ladies and gentlemen, by the candidates of the referendum, according to the Left, are practically confined to the national edition. National edition is also an unconstitutional act and this must be condemned and in this House, in the National Assembly, to do everything to ensure that this does not happen. We have heard many times that we are not threatened and so on and so forth, various factions, of course, this moment, this hour, maybe we are not at risk, what in an hour, what in a day, what in a month. All signs show that Russia is planning a large-scale attack on Ukraine. Ukraine is our second neighbouring country to the east, if Hungary is the first, Ukraine is the second. It is said that in some ways a war is being waged within the reach of the hands. Some say the largest on European soil after 45. God forbid that's gonna happen. It's not a dilemma for health care, it's not for the military. Thank God this moment is going well, ladies and gentlemen, and we have enough budgetary and other resources to give for the army, of course, because for a few years or at least a decade we have not equipped the Slovenian Armed Forces. We are also doing well because we have provided record funds for the health system. We have provided for the next decade almost two billion and a hundred million for investments in public Slovenian health. We have provided record funds for investments in kindergarten and primary education infrastructure. Yes, we also provided record funds, budgetary resources for Slovenian culture. And the talk was about strikes, because we expected it, just like in 2008 now. Left-handed activists strike. But they strike, interestingly, those who are advocates of low wages because they oppose the income law, which brings higher net wages for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u8	Your Honor! At the beginning of the month, 44 votes in favour and 35 against the law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms in the implementation of the BOXER programme were approved in the National Assembly. There were also votes against by all 6 members of the SAB Group. While the Institute for the Inadmissibility of the Referendum's Invitation is at first sight acting as an intervention in referendum law, we must be aware, at the same time, that there are other very important constitutionally protected values in parallel with this right under Article 90 of the Constitution. For them, the right to request a referendum must be withdrawn and the Constitutional Court has also attached itself to it. What we think about the purchase of 45 war vehicles Boxer and, above all, what we think about the amount that Slovenia should deduct for this purchase we have already said when we consider the proposal to hold a consultative referendum on this topic. Our position on the purchase remains unchanged for a month. We continue to argue that it is essential for the purchase of any defence security system equipment to be transparent, rational and efficient. In a specific case, we have doubts about the fulfilment of all three items. From the beginning, unreasonable expensive vehicles are now almost three times more expensive, and we strongly doubt that no one has taken advantage of them or seen opportunities to benefit from them. In this light, we are therefore not convinced by the Ministry's argument that the whole process ensures the avoidance of potential corruption risks and does not detect the transparency of increasingly concentrated nebulas. Finally, the public is alarmed by the fact that, at this stage, data on the projected value of the project only jumps up and down. So we are not at all fond of the project. The second question is how we feel about the call for a legislative referendum. Laws on ratifications of international treaties are those on which it is not permissible to sign a referendum. At first glance, then, things are quite simple. The considerations of the content of these Treaties and their non-constitutionalities can only be invoked before ratifications and it is true that, in a specific case, no proposal has been submitted to the Constitutional Court for an opinion on the compatibility of this Treaty with the Constitution. However, we believe that in the case of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms, this is not the most typical example of an international treaty. These are crucial for the establishment, regulation and deepening of international relations, and it is difficult to say that this agreement specialises any of these. The deal is business and not any of it, it is the biggest arms deal in the history of Slovenia. It also delivered its opinion on the proposal for a decision by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and attached its opinion to the drafters of the decision. Regardless of what our substantive concerns about the proposal for a law are, we must be aware of the limitations imposed by the Constitution on the invitation to a referendum. When weighing one and the other in the SAB Group, we decided not to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Group of Members, in particular, we do not want the defence area to be the hostage of the daily policy and of the internal political pre-election conversions. Unfortunately, however, the Party of the Left and its Members are just defences, which has become one of the key national resources that has become a very popular political pre-election range. The rhetoric of the Left that Slovenia is not militarily threatened and that this investment in arms does not come from a completely wrong assumption that security is self-evident. Proof that this is not the case is the last monthly increase in tension and attempts to change security architecture in Eastern Europe, so in our immediate neighbourhood, we really regret that the destructiveness of the Left has no limits and that they do not choose resources for their political struggle. In spite of the explicit constitutional prohibition of the referendum on ratifications of international treaties, this is enshrined in Article 90 of the Constitution, and Levica has taken the initiative to apply for a legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an international treaty governing the relationship between the purchase of eight wheeled armoured vehicles Boxer, so there is no doubt that the purpose of the party is only a time delay without hope of eventual success and they have chosen an extremely inappropriate security strategic moment when not only the European public as a whole but the whole of the world is concerned to observe the event in Ukraine. It is clear that it is either the instigators or the renegade political judgement or the deliberate abuse of the referendum institute. Recall, a mistake has already been acknowledged and a proposal for a consultative referendum on the Law on Income was withdrawn days ago, where they illogically advocated the rejection of higher net wages. Today, we are considering a government proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum on the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Slovenian Government and the OCCAR organisation on the purchase of eight wheeled armoured vehicles Boxer. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum is based on the third indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution and is also supported by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The prohibition of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the ratifications of international treaties is based on the very nature of the conclusion of such international treaties and the possible concerns about the content of such treaties and their possible non-constitutionalities can only be enforced before ratification, so our Constitution provides. The second paragraph of Article 160 provides that, on a proposal from the President of the Republic, the Government or a third of Members, the Constitutional Court, in the process of ratifying an international treaty, shall deliver an opinion on its compliance with the Constitution and shall be bound by this opinion of the Constitutional Court. But the key fact is that, in a specific case, no proposal has been submitted to the Constitutional Court for an opinion on the compatibility of the said international treaty with the Constitution in the process of ratifying this international treaty. It is obvious that the incentives in Levica have not been used in a timely manner by all legal means or that they have lacked legal knowledge and have only mastered valued populism and manipulated the will of thousands of citizens who have contributed to the initiative without knowing that the Constitution does not allow such a referendum. In the Group of Members, in particular, we will support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of this referendum because we want Slovenia to remain a legal and secure country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u12	A good day to all of you, especially you, and Mr President, of course, the Minister of Defence! We have a professional army in Slovenia. The defence of the State is also constitutional matter, which is, in Articles 132 and 124 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Our country is also a member of the NATO Union. Article 90 of the Constitution provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be declared on the laws or ratifications of international treaties. This is just a few indisputable facts that need to be taken into account in such a matter. All other facts are facts that are not but merely about the implementation of the political agenda of certain political options. In 2013 you changed the Constitution in this particular part where it is determined which matters of the referendum cannot be described. At that time, our party was said to have not been in Parliament. The SNS also strongly opposed the entry into NATO and also advocated this position at the consultation referendum on the entry into NATO. I don't know what is expected of this year in 2022 from the current call of the National Assembly. As I have already stated, the facts are one and the appetites are obviously completely different. The fact is also that the Ministry of Defence started more intensive activities to implement the 8x8 procurement project already in 2017. Even then, the SNS was not part of Parliament. The Boxer programme aims to provide these vehicles to the forces of the participating countries and thus enable them to carry out their tasks, transport, support, fight for the needs of the countries themselves and to operate within the framework of the Alliance. The adopted defence resolution also provides for the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces with war vehicles 8x8 as a basic platform for the construction of a medium-sized battalion fighting group. Unfortunately, we have obligations to the NATO Union, and by this decision we fulfil our obligations. Who would have thought last year that the situation at the Ukrainian border would escalate to this point where they are today? The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is also very problematic. Geopolitically, the situation can change very quickly, within a few months or earlier, so it is impossible to predict what the situation will be in the coming years. It is right that we have a professional army capable of fulfilling our mission. More than equipment, we are concerned about the human factor because we believe that it is a big question if we have employees of so many soldiers who will be able to carry out all this equipment with all this powerful technique. And here's a real problem we should be talking about. The left option where he argued that there would be no money for health care, for social services, for education, but I would only ask him to stop lying about things, or by lying. The facts that I have stated as well as the fact that the health, education and social sectors in the last two years have received the most money and have been privileged by these sectors. Of course, the effects in these sectors could be discussed. But the change under the left option was nothing, even a setback, and I'm only guessing in what interest. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u14	Good-bye to all of you! Security is one and indivisible, and everything when there is no security, it doesn't mean much. We've heard about social, education, health, what you think in the countries where they're now being broken down by war, where they're exposed to threats and things like that and other things that matter to them. They're fighting a little. Everything without security is nothing. Therefore, security in many countries is the subject of consensus and we would like to see it that way in Slovenia. Especially because security is today also a development component. Look, people, the most productive parts of the population, businesses, money, move to those countries where they feel safe. They would never have believed, 30 years ago, that people from Sweden would move to Poland, but this has been happening and the richest families are moving, entrepreneurs are moving, young people who want to raise their children in safe conditions. All of this is a reflection of security, of security as values, which is the foundation of everything else. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, the security of the Left is always the subject of such and different instigations and demagogies. You know, the most common fairy tale is about right-wing guns, invaders and all the other insults we hear from year to year. What is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? The first to commit Slovenia to additional weapons was Tone Rop, SD and LDS. Then this commitment was repeated by the next government led by the SD at several meetings. Alenka Bratušek has confirmed this in writing as President of the Government, with a special commitment, a statement, and in her time it has also begun to choose in which areas and with which weaponry this will also be realized. And in her time, according to available information, the armored ones we're talking about today have been chosen. And then point to i – The government of Marjana Sarca was created solely and solely because of the support of the Left, which then also led the role of the one who coordinated the Government and actually decided its fate, which eventually also proved to be a great deal. And it was Marjan Sarec who finally sent a commitment to the international community on this purchase and on additional weapons. So, all the key facts, all the key decisions, all the key projects, all the key processes were carried out in the time of the left governments when it comes to arming the Republic of Slovenia. And now that the government of Janez Janša is faced with the fact that, because of the credibility of Slovenia as an international partner, it will do so, but it will be hindered and sabotaged in all possible ways and it will undermine what left-wing people have done and will do and will do if ever they have the chance, the government of Janez Janša. The way this is happening, you can see it well with this initiative. See, when the constitution on the referendum changed, if it were in my opinion, there would be a Swiss model of referendum, a permissible referendum on everything, even on the very stop under strict conditions, without any restrictions. But at the request of the left, the left-wing men, from the first to the last, all of them, came into the constitution of limitations. And today we have only a confirmation referendum and a ban on the referendum on defence, security, international treaties and so on. So when you went to collect signatures, ladies and gentlemen, you literally made a fool of people, you pulled them by the nose for a matter you once established and demanded, and today you're turning it back on. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth. The truth that tells a lot about you, about your relationship with the people you're making a fool of, you don't care about their safety. But it is to us, because we want people to live safely. And the collective security that we are defending under NATO allows us to have only one part of that weapon that would otherwise be necessary, because it is cheaper because it is more beneficial, because it is safer and, most importantly, is developmental and good for people. That's why we're going to support the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Nik Prebil will present the views of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u16	Dear President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! We have before us a new government decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. The fear of our country's citizens is obviously very strong with coalition parties and its satellites. In order to be able to explain the above and why this matter is disputed for LMŠ, I must first touch the content. This decision today is due to too expensive and also to inadequately planned investments in the Slovenian military. This is about two laws that have already been passed. First, the Act on the provision of investments in the Slovenian Army in 2021-2026, which provides for an amount of EUR 780 million from the Slovenian budget. The second is the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces until 2035, where we cannot predict at all how much military investment will cost the country. And like a book, it's not possible to judge by its cover, nor can we judge by its title. The fact that the rule you want to ban a referendum by the coalition, the title of the law on ratification, does not mean that the content of this regulation is the nature of an international treaty - for which the Constitution prohibits a referendum in the 90th Article. This agreement certainly does not involve such ratification of an international treaty, so the attempt to ban a referendum initiative once again represents your abuse of power and the malicious use of a normative basis. Well, this agreement, which is not law-abiding, also foresees the purchase of a boxer with a value of €412 million. And under this government, things are more expensive in our country - and so is this one. Two years ago, the same agreement provided for the price of EUR 207 million. And, Your Honor, that's 100 percent more today than it was then. The worst part is that at the Ministry of Defence, Members are easily declared that the final price is not yet known because they do not yet have an offer. And I believe that this is, of course, still today, when the government is taking the constitutional right to a referendum. Let's look at another fact. Within the framework of the joint arms organisation, only three European Union countries are members of Boxer. And at this point in LMŠ, we are again asking why Slovenia, as one of the smallest, should become a member of such a programme, not a very large financial range when we are talking about financial investments in the military. What are we going to get out of this, and what are people going to get out of it? Even if we take the experience from these three countries, where the boxers came too late, the supply stalled, then arrived without the equipment, had problems and, of course, the costs jumped. Nor should we, with respect, forget that the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia today is more than €40 billion. And this is essentially more than two years ago, so it is necessary to think about where we invest these limited financial resources. And let me remind the public again, and of course those of you who like to forget here, of one more thing. The Slovenian army has been undernourished for a number of years. And she was fed just because of the former Janša government when she blocked both technical development and military staffing with ZUJF. And that is why, of course, in the previous government, the government led by LMŠ, first after 2010, we have raised funds more significantly for the Slovenian military and military investments. For LMŠ, however, the military is an essential element of each country. It is essential that we respect it and also respect time appropriately, technologically and humanly, of course, with a clear plan and without the satisfaction of certain sectoral interests, we are also developing. But, unfortunately, there are always finances that are limited. And even if under this candy government, if I may say so, it looks like money's falling out of the sky, that's not the case. This money will have to be returned someday. And today, this decision will be decided on by a clear political issue. And that's certainly not an army issue. So we're going to let [[sign for the end of the debate]] The possibility that at the time of almost half a billion purchases of military equipment, for which we still do not have the final price, people can express themselves at the referendum or this right will be revoked. We're in LMŠ on people's side and on the side of what's right. We will therefore vote against this government decision. We fear, however, that despite our votes, a coalition with its non-cooperational partners from the opposition will once again deprive people of the right to a referendum, the right to a referendum. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The expression of will. But on April 24th, there will be the biggest referendum so far, which I regret for you and thank God for you in the coalition you cannot ban. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President. Minister, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members! At its 29th regular session, the National Assembly ratified an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms, so-called OCCAR, on the management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR. Under this agreement, Slovenia is expected to purchase 53 armoured Boxer vehicles for more than EUR 400 million. We voted against the ratification of the agreement, although the initiative to conclude the agreement was prepared by the Ministry of Defence in 2018, under the leadership of Minister Andreja Katič at the time, but we voted, as it were said, against the ratification of the agreement because, from the initiative given from 2018 until today, when we already have a ratified international treaty between the RS Government and the OCCAR, the circumstances and conditions of the purchase of Boxers have changed significantly. The initiative to conclude the agreement initially envisaged that the Ministry of Defence would have an open possibility of negotiating that could further reduce the price of the purchase of armoured 8x8 but now, with respect and respect, this option is lacking in the agreement adopted. Moreover, what we are even more concerned about is the fact that the projected price of purchasing one armoured vehicle from 2018 to date has even increased from the estimated EUR 4.8 million to EUR 6.2 million without VAT. In addition, in the debate on the ratification of this Agreement, we drew attention to the current poor dynamics in the production and delivery of Boxer armoured equipment, as for example in Lithuania. While Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be declared in international treaty ratification laws. The government has now proposed that the National Assembly should adopt a decision on the inadmissibility of a referendum on the ratification of an agreement with the OCCAR aimed at purchasing Boxer armoured vehicles. The Constitution also provides in Article 3 that the power of the people is vested in Slovenia, so people should be able to decide at the referendum on such an important issue as the increased purchase of weapons worth more than EUR 400 million. It is the right to direct democratic decision-making of people about the future, which is totally self-evident in other democratic countries. Citizens and citizens should be given the opportunity to decide for themselves at the referendum what they would prefer. Are these large-scale purchases of weapons or investments in health, social protection, education and development projects? With the proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum, the government and its ruling coalition simply want to avoid the possibility of people saying what they actually think about 400 million euros in heavy arms purchases in such a difficult time that many still feel the severe economic and social consequences of the health crisis. When health and social workers clearly and loudly warn that they are not enough to be exhausted and tired of the Covid-19 epidemic. At a time when many need more than 150 euros in aid because they are unable to pay the heat and electricity bills. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the decision by the Social Democrats on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum on an agreement with the purchase of Boxers, because we believe that the Government, in its haste with the ratification of the agreement just before the regular elections, is literally forcing the purchase of armoured personnel at an entirely inappropriate time when we have even more important priorities ahead of us than the purchase of weapons. The ruling coalition should thus take political responsibility for taking away the opportunity to tell people at the referendum whether they agree to purchase weapons worth more than EUR 400 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. I would like to inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members of Parliament who have been invited to the debate is shown on the screens in the Chamber, the entire order of the panellists who have been notified is shown on the website of the National Assembly, under the heading of the list of panellists. During the course of the debate, the order of the panellists declared may change. First of all, Mr. Minister Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I think that a few questions will have to be answered in the introduction to the debate, which have very often also occurred. First of all, is security at risk or is Slovenia at all? Yeah. Look at Ukraine, look at Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Ukraine, things have been happening in recent days that may be heading towards conflict. As we say in the Alliance, then we do our best to prevent this conflict by diplomatic means, but there are violations of the diameter by shelling, explosions, Russian forces at the border and all of this speaks for the sake that some conflict can happen, despite the fact that in the 1990s there were numerous assurances to Ukraine about its security. [[Incomprehensible]] When Ukraine gave up nuclear weapons in the 1990s, Russia was also the one that guaranteed its security and territorial integrity. It hasn't been 30 years and look where we are. Bosnia and Herzegovina's politicians, for the first time in years, are clearly talking about a possible new war. All these things have direct consequences for Slovenia. First in terms of migration and then in terms of economic consequences, higher food prices, higher energy prices, therefore, whether Slovenia is at risk because of all the developments in our immediate and given surroundings. Yeah, she's in danger. The second question is, is Slovenia really too dedicated to defence? Last week we had NATO defence ministers meeting in Brussels, where we also reviewed our defence expenditure. Despite the Investment Act and despite all efforts, Slovenia remains 25th among all members of the NATO Federation, after defence spending. According to investments, Slovenia ranks 26th. So much for how irrationally and too much is spent on defence and security. Some Eastern members of the NATO Alliance were justified in criticising that countries that are economically stronger than they give to defence and security than Slovenia and that foreign taxpayers also pay for security in Slovenia, that this is simply not fair. For example, the comparable state of Slovakia will buy us not 45, but 400 armoured men and buy 14 F16 warplanes. That we know roughly what kind of investment other countries are investing in and what investments Slovenia is investing in. The third question and the criticism that we're only doing this because of Nate, that we're only buying it because of Nate's needs. The answer is no. Slovenia and the Slovenian military are also present in the operations of the European Union, the United Nations and not only NATO and our soldiers are present on these missions, because they provide security and peace, because it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the people in whose countries our soldiers operate and these vehicles are needed to ensure their safety and survival if anything goes wrong. Thank God the Hambi armored vehicle saved the lives of our soldiers in Afghanistan when they were attacked. Why is Boxer also a number of critics. Ten days ago, the British Secretary of Defense visited me on an official visit. He said quite frankly that for years they had been thinking about which vehicle to buy either American or Finnish or any other in the end they decided to boxer because it was the best vehicle. It is a top-notch vehicle and because Slovenia buys these vehicles not for the next two, three years, but for the next 20, 30 years it is essential that we buy the best that the market currently offers. If this vehicle is good for the United Kingdom, if it is good for Germany, the Netherlands and Australia, and Lithuania, then I believe it is good for Slovenia. The price he's manipulating. Please be honest enough to tell us what kind of price you are talking about. Whether you are talking about a large vehicle, whether weapons are included in this price, whether VAT or spare parts or training are included in this price, that is five different elements that can determine the price. And to compare at a flat rate some price where our ministry fights for integrated packages, that as many things are involved as possible, and to compare with the prices of my predecessor, who talked more or less about the price of naked vehicles, is simply unfair. And the price will be rational, so we're buying in consortium with other countries together, because if we did 45 vehicles, it's a completely different price than if we did more than a thousand. And because some of these countries have joined together, the price will also be more favourable and lower. However, it will certainly be higher than it was in 2018. Due to the blackmail of the Left and because the Government of Marjana Sarca has agreed to this blackmail, the price will be higher than the basic elements were encouraged, and as much as the labour price has been undermined. For these two elements the price will be higher today than it was in 2018. A mockery of the fact that the price is unknown. Do you know when the price is known? The price is known when the contract is signed. And until we have ratified an international treaty in this House, we cannot sign a treaty. And only after we sign the contract will there be a known price, and negotiations are under way by then. And we are negotiating to get, of course, the best package that will include as many things as possible in this price. Why is that ratification? Look, I know my words are bob against the wall, but let's read this third chapter of the Legal and Legal Service. You rely very much on them, I think they've done very well this time on how things are. Read their opinions and you will find out when ratification is taking place. So if I sum it up, I'd say it's a huge measure of politics. The last four prime ministers promised – Bratuškova and Cerar – that by 2024 we would have 2% of the defence spending, Prime Minister Sarec reduced it to 1.5%, Prime Minister Janša confirmed it. And now all we're going to do to achieve this, those of you who have supported it in the past, decisively oppose it, you have a series of problems that are attracted to your hair, and only for one simple reason – if you fail, we can't succeed either. But we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is ironic how lawyers buy weapons by measure and for the purposes of the union then do before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, where we know that our friends and allies within the Nato Pact were the ones who took care of the violent change of power and are the ones who have been moving their eastern border against the Russian Federation for 30 years now, they promised otherwise. But, of course, the current government is nothing sacred, and it is in its best interest to ensure that it purchases 412 million euros in armour, including commissions that are more important to them than democracy. In this case, we can listen to a double argument. On the one hand, the art of intimidation before the Russian Federation is to justify the purchase of armoured men who are in fact inappropriate for any defence of the country and are bought for the purposes of Nate's missions abroad. However, the second argument that we can listen to is how is the OCCAR Accession Agreement, through which Boxer 8 times 8 armored persons are to be purchased, the international treaty and that, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, people in this country do not have the right to vote, so there can be no referendum. But, ladies and gentlemen, what happens to Boxer armored 8 times 8 is not an international contract, but a group arms purchase called OCCAR. And that's why we can't just take people's rights to a referendum. We cannot ban the referendum, no matter how much the Government of Janez Janša claims it is an international contract, while we all know that the whole country knows it is a normal arms deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Andrey Chernigoy has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Matthew Tonin, the esteemed choir! New Slovenia restores the dignity of the Slovenian Army. I believe that taking into account all the achievements of the current government and the Minister of Defense of Mags. Matthew Tonin of this in this hall and outside, no one can deny it anymore. On the one hand, the state-of-the-art and commitment to all the promises made in the past also as members of the NATO Union, on the other hand, the desire of Levice to abolish the Slovenian Army and their opposition to the modernisation of the Slovenian Army due to its own partisan interests for its own visibility or the increase in the number of chairs in this esteemed National Assembly. Their current arguments in the introduction confirm the very above-mentioned thesis. Their arguments about what they would solve or did proved to be true when they were a supercoanist. Citizens and citizens have received nothing but less from their leadership of the country. Their leadership of the country, or that the kidnapping of a state as a supra-coaliciary party has brought no more to citizens and citizens, nothing home for older citizens, no housing for young people. On the other hand, NGOs, one of them Rog, were very well paid. And we can expect that from them in the future. And they're not hiding anything from us. Self-proclaimed rescuers from Levice today are expected to represent all the poor in Slovenia and only some after the elections. How? I've seen it. On the other hand, the government and all coalition parties build homes for older citizens, build homes for young people, build schools and kindergartens, build roads and invest in health care. On 9 July 2021 and 13 November 2022 in the National Assembly, the agreement was ratified at the 29th ordinary session 2. 2. On this point, the Left immediately launched an initiative for a legislative referendum, and on the same day the Government shall adopt a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. Therefore, at least on my behalf, I can say that the abolition of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the escalation into the almost cold war in Ukraine between the West and the East borders on the issue of their own country. Unacceptable and, in my personal opinion, malicious. In New Slovenia we want a safe and ready Slovenia, so we need a well-armed Slovenian Army. As I have already mentioned, the malicious use of the Institute of Referendum comes from our colleagues on the very left side, is reflected in their fraud of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in collecting signatures because they themselves know that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow such a referendum. It is useful, however, that Levica legally collects the personal data that they will later be able to use in the electoral campaign for citizens and citizens. I will not support the referendum initiative alone, so I will support the government's decision to ban the referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u25	Miha Kordish replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Clearly, Mr Montenegro did not understand me very well, but he obviously did not understand the beginning and the end of his sentence and his argument. On the one hand, we can listen to Levica betray her own nation and want to cancel purchases of armor because of our opposition. On the other hand, we should do this because we want to collect data from citizens and citizens. I mean, let's figure out what's going on with buying this weapon and what the left one wants to achieve. We listen 5 minutes ago to Mr Grims from the SDS, who says that all weapons were purchased by the left governments, on the other hand, the representatives of Nova Slovenije claim that Levica forced the government of Marjana Sarca to save people 350 million euros and cancel the purchase of Boxer armor. I mean, you don't even know what's really going on with each other, because you're defending the purchase of weapons with everything you can, including lies. Your commissions are more important to you than democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u28	Thank you, President, for your word. Hello, Minister. Colleagues, colleagues. Yeah, there's been a lot of talk on this subject, and maybe in time it would be really nice for a Member to think about what point he's talking about. I'm not gonna talk about it. Now, Minister, you said something about another subject like that once. After the memory, I'll say it now. That people know better how to spend their money than the state. I think there was a talk about the Income Act back then. You know what I'm gonna tell you? That people should say at the referendum or want over 400 million spent on armored people coming to Slovenia, I don't know, 2026, in a few years. And all the things you've been explaining here today about these tensions in Ukraine and Bosnia are, of course, true, only with these armored people in Ukraine today and in Bosnia they really can't help themselves, because they're not here yet and they won't be for a while. And we don't even know if they will. We hope they don't. Now why did you jump into the luft as soon as the referendum on this arms purchase was announced? Because you're obviously afraid of people. Which would make it very clear to you, I am sure, at this referendum they have said that they are not to give so much, more than 400 million money for some armored personnel. Because it's simply about an arms business. Which we've seen before in the past. Secondly, because you are obviously afraid of people, because so many of the referendums that were banned under the government of SDS, NSI and SMC and all those lost sons in this National Assembly have not been in the history of Slovenia. You have banned a referendum on almost every law, but definitely on every PKP. I know, you saved lives like that. You saved lives, so today we have over 6,000 people dead, and that's why you bought those little better golfs, and that's why you bought those serviette masks. And I'm not going back to all of this. And what you're doing here today is nothing more than: a) abuse of power, that's what you're doing today, and secondly, a malicious application of the legal norm, which allows for a ban on the referendum, as it is written in article 90 of the Constitution. That's what you're doing with this law today. Why? Because you want to do the arms business. Simple. End, end, end, end. And that's what you have to say. All that nice talk about how we're going to get together and buy it together, but if these armory's good for, I don't know, Germany and I don't know who everything is – yeah, great, good, business is business, weapons, yours. That's what this is about. And yes, when you mentioned earlier what all the former left-wing governments had done. The LMŠ programme, which we have also written down, clearly states by 2026 that we are committed to investing in new technology, because in today's world they pose a security threat mainly to cyber attacks and hybrid wars. That is why we have a proposal in the LMŠ for you instead of buying these armored men who will do what they will do, and they will come to Slovenia as they will come, so we prefer to invest in cyber defence. I don't know, in drones. I'm not an expert in this field, I can't judge, but I suppose those who deal with cybersecurity know more about it. Let's develop something of our own. We have enough tech companies, we have enough knowledge. And here we go first. I don't know why we should be buying armor. And we're gonna stop it, I don't know what, and we don't even know where. And we know they're going to be worth over 400 million, but we don't know exactly what's going to be in them, and we don't know if there's going to be maintenance or not. Speaking of which, when we had this debate on the committee, we didn't answer these questions. In short, I would seriously suggest that you consider this very much in the coalition and all those who support this coalition. In fact, we all know that you do not have that majority, so at the time of the adoption of the law, I don't know if you remember, you Minister of this, if you were here at the time, but no matter how much we accepted the novel, which now allows the ban on the referendum, we warned in LMŠ that in the case of a sufficient majority, abuse could occur. That is why we have also proposed in the LMŠ that the ban on the referendum should be adopted by a majority, the same as the law establishing the referendum initiative, and we have proposed that the majority should not be abused. Why? Because we have a hanging Parliament today because the coalition does not have a solid majority, and because you are trading in votes, and so will today in this vote, and that is how it has happened to all the PKP and all the laws you have proposed, which we have opposed in the opposition, but you, of course, have run us over as a bulldozer. Because you've been taking us to the dictatorship and taking us to the dictatorship for the last two years, move by step every day. Because now you've allowed nightclubs to open, and kids still have masks on their faces, and we still have them here, and people are making fun of why we have them. And then every day, they write why I don't throw it down. You know, you lost your compass in this government. Therefore, with such a downside as you have managed to produce in this government, you explain that we urgently need over 400 million boxers or armored men. This is the most urgent investment we need. Well, we do not agree with this in the LMŠ, so of course we will vote against it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u29	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u30	So that we don't get the wrong story and make the impression. We don't go into an international treaty to avoid anything. This is an international treaty for the accession of OCCAR, and this has also been done by all other countries, from the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany, and here Slovenia is no different. However, it is nice that things are being cleaned up if we know that in Levica they are for the abolition of the Slovenian Army, at least Ambassador Kordish said that the referendum was for the military to disband and join the security and rescue system, but today we know that the LMŠ is that the army is transforming into a gendarmerie because, according to your assessment, it is not the right time for armoured personnel, the aircraft is still the wrong thing, in short it will be an army without any serious power. But you're in favour of investing in cybersecurity and drones. And let me tell you, that's exactly what we're doing. We have started by reshaping the system to centralise and bring together all the forces we have within the Ministry of Defence for Cyber Defence, we are building a special centre, so we are not changing a special asset. We also make special drones made by the Slovenian company, Darstral, we renew them, we update them, even more, four different Slovenian companies have made a special drone that takes off vertically and flies for the ship Triglav. It's called a seagull. We do a lot of other things. We also equipped the army with good footwear, with weapons to buy new guns, to renovate the rest of the weapons, to have stabilizing, safe, and fire-fighting equipment. We're doing all of this. But in the end we can do this and do it and modernise it, but it is good to know that the LMŠ is from today to transform the Slovenian Army into some kind of gendarmerie where they will have only rifles and uniforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. A replica? Lydia Wildyak Mirnik. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u32	Mr. Tonin, I would politely ask you not to lie here. I know that NSI works as it does, that you are the most two-faced party that exists in this House at all, but I politely ask you not to lie to yourself about something, because I am talking about some gendarmerie and I do not know what transformation of the Slovenian Army I have not talked about. Thank you so much for being right.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u33	That wasn't a replica, sir. Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Look, it seems to me, nicely said, unworthy, indeed, that in the time of the biggest health crisis, which has eventually turned into an economic crisis, at a time when the government of Janez Janša managed to produce 40 billion deficits in the budget, not because it was taking measures that would actually help people to cope with the crisis, but because it was taking measures that were mainly helpful and liked by their friends and that they were actually trying to buy votes. At such a time, the government of Janez Janša decided to initial the arms purchase agreement, literally for the arms business, amounting to EUR 400 million. Do you think that's acceptable? I find it absolutely unacceptable. And after the opposition demands that they say the last word of the voter and the voters in the referendum, the government tries to tell and show in every way possible how unacceptable the referendum is. Yes, Your Honor, the referendum is absolutely unacceptable to you and is a threat. That's what turned out. The referendum is a threat to the government of Janez Janša. In the summer, it turned out to be a case of a water referendum. It's a big threat because you're carried away by people, literally, and so it turned out in the water referendum, and so it would show up at the 400 million-dollar referendum, at a time when people don't have electricity, when the state doesn't have to pay nurses, when we're sinking into deficits, so that our grandchildren can literally return it, and at that time you decide to buy some Boxers, and then you're talking nonsense about defending ourselves against the Russians and the Ukrainians. I mean, don't talk nonsense, please. So, look, please, smart in the hands. Please, really, smart in hand, and let's set our priorities as a country, even in these difficult times. Whether there are priorities, I'm not going to say that I'm some friend or advocate of heavy weapons, but I understand that every country needs an army, but I need to set some order of priorities, and I think at this time to throw 400 million for some Boxers, armored men, is absolutely unacceptable. [[…]] While you vouched for us when we passed the law on the construction of 10,000 new rental apartments, there is no means for this to be resolved otherwise, so that this market will be saved and so on. So, yes, on the one hand, you are taking unacceptable and unreasonable measures for these difficult times, on the other hand, you are afraid of citizens and citizens, and on the other hand, I think that this decision will be voted today, as it has been several times in the PKP measures, but the hour, the truth comes, or you know, 24. 4. is approaching and this will be the main referendum which will tell which direction citizens and citizens of Slovenia want it. Whether they agree with the concept of governance, as it has been in the past two years, the true authority of corruption, “clientism” and chaos, or whether citizens and citizens want Slovenia to focus on the future, on some normal democracy that we decided at the end of 1991 at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! 90. Article 90 of the Constitution provides for a referendum not to be permitted to be published on the laws on the ratification of international treaties. I can do it again, can't I? The referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on the ratification of international treaties. Thus, if the National Assembly allows this referendum, violates the Constitution and dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the KUL Coalition, I can say that you are many times full of the mouth of the Slovenian Constitution. Many times you wave this Slovenian Constitution to all, I will tell the Members, who are part of the government coalition, but today you are clearly and directly opposed to the Slovenian Constitution. Indeed today it has been heard this is the abuse of the referendum and the impeding of the development of the Slovenian Army, the impeding of the development of the Slovenian Army. We know what the situation in the Slovenian Army was before we will tell you before Minister Matthew Tonin took over the Slovenian Army and we are not aware enough of the importance of defending the country. There was talk today about the situation in eastern Ukraine that we want to contribute to the consolidation of peace and security, because what quality for man is the highest? To live in peace and to feel safe in all areas. And don't say that Ukraine is far away and that Slovenia will have no consequences. Every war is far away and every war has consequences for every country. I can say that the word that membership for the NATO Pact was attached or membership in the NATO Pact was that it was a wrong decision. Yes, for someone, it may be true, but I think that for someone who wants the good of his people, you certainly can't say that, because I remember too well how we supported the accession of Northern Macedonia to the Pact and also to the European Union, that these countries of the former Yugoslavia want to see a real opportunity for peace, for the security of their countries in joining them, to join the countries in the NATO Pact and, of course, the European Union. It is said that the policy of the Slovenian Army and of the Slovenian countries is right at the moment not only of Northern Macedonia. All former countries of the former Yugoslavia want this membership and I do not understand how some might object. It has been said that the constant attempts of Levice are so strong that they break down the Slovenian Army with comparisons that we do not provide people with health care. 2 billion – historical – is devoted to Slovenian health care. Slovenian education, kindergartens and culture and compare, and in a way or not, someone gets something like losing yes of course is abuse is an obstacle to the development of the Slovenian Army. I myself want to live in a safe, free, peaceful, just Slovenia and I think that all citizens and citizens and that the Slovenian Army is one of the foundations of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u38	Thank you. Safe, free and fair Slovenia has not been at least 2 years since you were in power, to which you have basically destroyed the whole system. So that if someone threatened something, threatened and actually failed to break down some system, if we talk from health care to the media and so on, your government was super successful. As far as the state of the Slovenian Army is concerned. You all repeat this lie that the Levica for the abolition of the Slovenian Army is a fact that on the other hand Minister Tonin has a somewhat over-ambitious view or a little over-blown, changed views on what the actual situation is. If they leave you a bomb attack a few times in the polygons, but you're a little bit driven around with tanks and Americans with an F-16, that doesn't mean that the Slovenian Army will become an army in a relationship like, I don't know, another European army. The problem is that even if we buy these 50 boxers, it still won't be something that will serve the defense of the state. We are all well aware of this, even you, Minister Tonin, know that these armored persons are not suitable and suitable for the actual fulfilment of the constitutional role of the Slovenian Army, and this is the defence of the country. So it's a stretch, excuse the expression. Well, you've been muddy since the beginning of this term trying to start up as much money as possible for the purchase of senseless military equipment. Another thing about tension in Ukraine. See, very simply, it is a pure geopolitical game between two giants, the United States on the one hand, the Russian Federation on the other – what in Ukraine? – control of natural resources. Ukraine is one of the last key sites, or a country rich in coal, gas, oil, etc. And here is essentially the battle between who will oversee Ukraine, who will have access to these natural resources. And you advocate that Slovenia should participate in this looting. I mean, I don't understand. And this is the problem of the Nato Pact, this is the problem – Then the Pact is nothing more than one platform to promote the geopolitical interests of Western nobles and another platform to service the arms industry, and we know that the American is one of the greatest. So you really don't have any serious argument here when you enter the current situation in the Republic of Slovenia into the equation. If you're talking about security, you're talking about freedom, you're talking about justice, let's look at the situation of nurses, nurses, nurses, social workers, what kind of situation teachers are working in, and what people face when they get 200, 300 euros for electricity, for heating, etc., food, for 200%, and so on. And in these real situations, you still manage to defend without a hint of bad conscience that almost half a billion euros should be launched for the 50 armoured men that Latvia has been waiting for years after they have already paid and bought them. The argument on this international treaty also. Look, the constitution has to be read in content sometimes. And this isn't about any international organization that would carry out some multi-lateral tasks, as I said in my position, in the comparability of NATO or some other form. This is simply some way of finding the dealer of these boxers a platform, this consortium of several countries that will sell these vehicles to them. It is only one model of a vehicle that is sold to different countries. And this is definitely not an international organisation within the meaning of some international cooperation. It makes sense not only to buy, but also to ban the referendum. As it is said, the government that fears its own people is a bad government and in fact points primarily to its powerlessness and fear of losing its power.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. Good day from this side! It bothers me that the party to which the minister belongs has always objected to the exact implementation of the referendums, and now that is exactly what he wants. So, you're under the impression that you want to do business in any way. We all know that there is a lot of milk and more cream, and it is justified to fear that it is just some vote even after somehow this cream comes at the right time. But what bothers me most is that the exploitation of such a gravely neurological and very painful topic as Ukraine and the threat of war, which could happen at any time, is now being used to convince people, first Members, and then people that it is now necessary to buy these boxers. That's a lot of money, and that's why we're going to be in even more debt. It is therefore necessary to say whether this is really such a necessary matter, given that your mandate is expired and to the uncertainty of whether or not you will have it again. So, wouldn't it be better to use this money to save the health care that's really on the dog, or maybe to deal with the epidemic, because we don't know what form it's going to appear next week or next month. We also want the development of the Slovenian army in the SAB, of course, but we are not sure or fully convinced that buying these armoured personnel is not the most appropriate momentum for the development of the Slovenian army. These vehicles are more suitable for other areas. And if you imagine these tanks coming from Radovljica to Ljubljana or I don't know what, I mean, only if you put the idea of moving these vehicles through our country and how it would work in the war does not look like the most appropriate solution to me. But I allow myself not to be an expert on this, of course, but it is that we have many other options and this is really not the best. But to whom a debt must be paid or a promise fulfilled, that is another question. We from other parties have always been in contact with the ambassadors of the countries of NATO, and those most prominent in this organization, when each new ambassador arrives, it is a serious question when you will start more money for NATO. So there is already a clear tendency to make an express desire to do business, not some sincere desire to develop our military. And if you've been paying attention today, the minister is really trying to justify it. Of course he said in his own way “We have arranged the shoes of the Slovenian army and now the boxers”. Good thing we have nothing in common between shoes and boxers, that this army expands, develops and improves, but that we must now walk from shoes. By being here, you can see that something simply has to be problematic. Of course, Minister, I understand you say, "The price is incomparable," but it always jumps more and tilts to the height or to the sophistication of these Our spaceships. And you'll practically be in a box if it works out that way to sign something and then make a deal about what it's all about. The referendum is therefore the best answer to what is the idea of this widest number of people. Therefore, the attempt to prevent it cannot be patriotic, it cannot be fair and in any way takes the basic democratic component of what the referendum is intended for. In this respect, you must understand that we will vote against it in the SAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u41	There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u42	The referendum is not forbidden by the government, but by the Constitution. And you, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very simple question for you. Then you tell me what you would buy for the Slovenian army and when.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u43	He's got the word. [[…]] A replica of who? Comrade Rajic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, but I'm challenged. I'd buy helicopters, like, sooner. Because people are waiting to get out of the inaccessible parts of Slovenia. [[Incomprehensible]] This is the most necessary. In Maribor we have an occasional helicopter available and many times the problem is not to mention that there are many athletes, many climbers, many people who have an accident, patients who need an emergency procedure that they cannot reach from Gorička to the clinical centre in Ljubljana. So the question is very short and the answer is even more: helicopters at a comparable price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. If there's still time.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u46	We buy helicopters and we also buy helicopters. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We are investing 30 million euros in the renovation of existing helicopters. So we're working intensively on the helicopter fleet.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u47	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u48	Thank you. Obviously, we've had a number of misinterpretations about helicopters. I'm sure we need helicopters, including military personnel, to use them to protect and rescue. The helicopters bought by the current government are the same as armored aircraft. Their purpose, use for the purposes of the then Pact, specifically for special forces within the NATO Pact. And these are not helicopters that would be primarily designed to protect and rescue and use at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u49	Thank you very much. You don't have time to regret it. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Security is a fundamental human need, a false dilemma of bread or weapons. Without security, there will be no bread, no wages, no pensions. The country is actually defending itself physically, not with flowers like, for example, many years ago, when we were teenagers, singing a song about how it will no longer burn, or heaven, how there will be no more countries, because then there will be no need to fight for anything and how it will not even be owned anymore and that we will all be one. This may have been good for teenagers, perhaps as a youth we believed it when a famous singer sang it from his multimillion - dollar villa. And the song is Imagine. As I have seen, for the first time in this composition in Parliament, as I have also looked at the data and the writing of newspapers, Minister Katičeva has already been involved in the purchase of Boxers. We also have international treaties, we're in NATO, and we've actually been on the verge of the worst conflict since the cold war. And, of course, who today does not support our defence, the defence of our country, which as a wider frontier begins at the edge of the EU border, is indeed living in teenage years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Slovenia's interests should primarily be to resolve the conflict in Ukraine in a calm manner and to remain a regional conflict, not to grow into a pan-European war, as has been the case in recent times with various media. Anyone who thinks otherwise does not live in teens but lives in dangerous illusions. And the dangerous illusion is that by buying these armored Slovenians and Slovenians, Slovenia will be safer. She won't be any safer. Bracelets are purchased exclusively for NATO missions abroad and we will pay a huge price, which has doubled in six years since this purchase began. The initial price, if I recall 212 million euros, is now EUR 407 million. So 200 million euros is lost in the middle. We'll get even less vehicles for this money than we thought. And thirdly, what Minister Tonin says and why we have this debate today and vote is simply misleading. Slovenia shall not join any international organisation. The OCCAR is not an international organisation such as the OECD, the EU, the World Bank or anything like that. OCCAR is a mere consortium of countries that will buy weapons together. And that's all. Why are we talking about this being an international organization? Only because Article 90 of our Constitution states that referendums on association with international organisations are inadmissible. And that's why Minister Tonin is hiding behind the facade of an international organization, even though we all know it's only about buying weapons. If there's anything else in the OCCAR organization like buying a weapon, I'll be happy with your explanation, Mr Tonin. We will, of course, vote against this undemocratic and senseless decision in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u54	Thanks again for saying that. Today we are in the role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fulfil the commitment made before the international community by the left-wing governments of the Republic of Slovenia. If we go in order. The first commitment was made by Tone Rop, then repeated by the next government led by SD, then by Alenka Bratušek sent a clear statement that she was committed to an increased purchase of weapons, and also by which systems had been decided at the time, and in the end the government was in which the key left was, since it allowed its creation and was, in fact, a superior party, that was the government of Marjana Sarca, who had sent a final commitment to purchase this arms system into the international community. And today this same Levitaker is pursuing a condescending demagogy, a lighter immortal soul of left-wingers than the true Watsava Havel circle for history and pretending as if this was the decision of this government and that this government itself has invented to go into the purchases of weapons systems. This is, of course, also evidence of how the low-level relationship in Levica has to the security of people, since it is a matter of implementing international treaties. Once again, I'm alerting us to whom the leftists, including the Left, committed us during the time of her government. And on the other hand, how little does credibility mean to them. However, credibility is high, especially in the business world. If you're not credible in the international community, people avoid you, and it's credibility in this case. Of course, it is much more than anything we have talked about today. The army is a pillar of statehood, and some are just pretending to destroy the country, to destroy Slovenia and the elections that are ahead of us will be a choice between those we are building and among the leftist destroyers you are destroying. Here it is decided to re-establish one of the key systems of the country in order to re-energise this pillar. But it is a scratch to know that this is only the first step, because the Slovenian Army needs at least two more, it needs to be properly rewarded, so that people will decide for the military profession and, of course, it will be that, because it may be even more relevant to the evaluation of society, that patriotism will be the real value to which everyone will follow, that patriotism will be the value that children will be properly taught in school, but not what LGTB plus cultural-marksist, ideological nonsense to which some try to rape. Domesticism is what all the Presidents of the Republic of Slovenia referred to from its creation, from independence to today, and it is not only in words that patriotism is realized in action. Today is an opportunity for this, today, to allow us to take the proposed decision, the first step towards re-energizing the military as a pillar of statehood, at a time when international experience, including the story of illegal migration, massive, 2015, 2016, has clearly learned that in practice we can only rely on ourselves in certain cases. However, when it comes to general collective security, we need to know that these things allow us to save a lot of money in the truth, because we simply maintain one of the systems in which Slovenia is committed to the international community, the other much more expensive than, say, those countries that play for neutrality, but we do not need to, we do not need to have our own aviation, we do not need to have full military aviation and all that costs very much. It is therefore important to be aware that this is a smart investment, a rational investment, and above all an investment in development, because today the world is so capable that the most capable, young families, businesses, capital, move where people feel safe. But security is that what we have Slovenians and Slovenians under the Constitution has all the right, which is every citizen's right, and it is our duty to ensure that, also by exposing the demagogies as you did when you collected the signatures, you were well aware that on your proposal, on your request, it was stipulated in the Constitution that there was no permissible referendum on international treaties and on systems relating to the security and defence of the state, not personally, your predecessors, but the left-wing people demanded it, and you have drawn people by their signatures and collected their signatures. Which means not only are you not concerned with the safety of people, but you also have a negative attitude, in your own words, and you make a fool of them. This says a lot about you, unfortunately it also says a lot about your attitude towards the homeland of Slovenia, and in fact, when we decide on these fundamental things, it is precisely because it is Slovenia that I personally want this to be the fruit of consensus. Unfortunately, there is always a need to talk rationally for consensus. In these stories, as we have witnessed in the past weeks, there is not much obedience and readiness in this National Assembly when it comes to the left. We are far away from consensus, but I hope that one day the composition will be different and that consensus will also be possible. When it comes to foreign policy, when it comes to security, because it would be good for Slovenia, good for Slovenian citizens and citizens and it is really about them.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The replica is not possible because you no longer have time. But the fact is that all the debaters you wanted got the word and that the time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, does anyone else wish to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes, I'm gonna trigger the list. Please sign up for those of you who are interested. Applications are under way. Since it's less than a minute to the debater, there won't be a time-sharing. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 30. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AN INTERVENTIVE MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE MARKET, IN THE framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposed proposal for a law on intervention measures to support the labour market provides for a single time-limited derogation from the applicable provisions of the Labour Market Regulation Act with regard to the Institute for Temporary and Temporary Work of Pensioners. A derogation from Article 27c of this Law is proposed by law. The rapid increase in Covid-19 infections has and continues to result in a large absence of employees, either due to the disease stock or due to a certain quarantine, which causes business disruptions, but also poses serious difficulties in organising the work process. The problem of such absences can at least partly be addressed by increasing the permitted level of temporary and occasional work of pensioners regulated by the Labour Market Regulation, as it is often for pensioners who are former employees who are already qualified to work and can be most rapidly involved in the work process or for persons who are well acquainted with the process and who work in companies through the Institute of Temporary and Temporary Work of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u57	Your Honor, please be quiet. Really, if you have to say something, whisper or go to the lobby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u58	The draft law on intervention measures to support the labour market therefore proposes an exemption from legislation, in the form of an increase in the monthly and annual permitted amount of temporary and occasional work carried out by pensioners, with effect until the end of 2022. Under the current legal regime, a pensioner may perform temporary and occasional work up to a maximum of 60 hours per calendar month and the proposal for an intervention law shall increase to 90 hours per month. Under the current regime, a pensioner may also work for 90 hours a month, but at most three times a year. This maximum height shall be amended by a proposal for an intervention law to a maximum of 120 hours. Finally, the Labour Market Regulation Act also provides that a maximum of 3 000 hours of temporary and occasional work of pensioners may be performed in the employer who employs more than 2 000 workers. With the intervention law under consideration, it is proposed to introduce a new category, with a employer who employs more than 4 thousand workers able to do a maximum of 7 000 500 hours of temporary or temporary work. Any proposed amendments in the event of the adoption of an intervention law would apply until 31 December 2022 without the possibility of an extension. In the event of the adoption of the law, the Ministry will also adapt the new provisional legislation to the provision on the level of the hourly rate and the amount of income for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners. The amount of income to be paid for this work in the calendar year shall be increased by an order in the event of the adoption of the law, in proportion to the increase in the clock fund proposed by the intervention law. In this way, regardless of the proposed increase in the Hours Fund, the minimum hourly rate for the work done will be maintained for pensioners. We would also like to point out that the proposal for an intervention law for pensioners serving on a temporary and occasional basis does not impose an obligation. It is either a free decision by the pensioner or it will benefit him or not. The intervention law makes it possible only to increase the number of hours worked within the Institute of Temporary and Temporary Work, and this obligation is by no means imposed on pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. I give the floor to President Eva Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. At its 72nd emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for an Intervention Measures Act to support the labour market submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by a proposal for an urgent procedure. A number of materials were first provided to the Committee. Representatives of the proposer, the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia Pergam and the Union of Free Trade Unions participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the proposer presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Commission of the National Social Protection Council, and the work, health and disabled, presented the opinion of the Commission and said that the Commission supported the proposal of the law. On the basis of the debate and all information received, the Commission also adopted an additional decision calling on the applicant to consider in or after the continued legislative procedure the possibility of taking into account the comments of the Pensioner's Union of Slovenia regarding the raising of the hourly rate for the temporary and occasional work of pensioners to 6,17 euros in the amount of the hourly rate for the work of the students and, on that basis, to harmonise the content of the order on the level of the hourly rate and the amount of income for the temporary or occasional work carried out, including ensuring that pensioners are adequately protected as particularly vulnerable groups of the working population. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It did, however, comment on Articles 1 and 2. The Committee also received proposals and comments from interested and professional public, which welcomed the proposed text of the law in the majority. The Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia, Pergam and the Union of Free Trade Unions, pointed out that prior to the social dialogue, we should first agree on the level of the hourly item under the changed conditions. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee considered that the idea of reactivation of pensioners in the current situation was a legitimate proposal from representatives of the interests of employers and pointed to possible negative effects. Some stressed that the change in the law was welcome because the labour force was actually missing, while others felt that it was too late. The Secretary of State said that it was voluntary work by the Government, as well as remarks that the purpose of the law was good and time was too late. On the contrary, it considers that the content of the law was not possible before because the elderly were among the most vulnerable and right, so they had not previously been included in the labour market. As amendments to the Labour Committee, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities have not been adopted in the draft law to the National Assembly, it is proposed that the draft law be adopted in intervention measures to support the labour market in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. As a result of the spread of Covid-19 infections, which has resulted in large-scale hospital absences of employees in companies, there are business disruptions. The absence of employees in a particular company poses serious difficulties in organising the work process, which may lead to further disruptions in supply chains. Due to the lack of workers in the labour market, especially workers in health care, social protection institutions, nursing homes and care workers, we have decided to increase the amount of work the pensioner can do in the framework of temporary and temporary work within one month from 60 to 90 hours per month. By the end of 2022, we propose that the pensioner in the calendar year may spend 120 hours per month for a maximum of 3 hours instead of 90 hours and that the maximum allowed number of hours per calendar year increase to a thousand 80 hours. A pensioner may carry out work with several employers at the same time, but the sum does not exceed the prescribed limits on the number of hours and the amount of income. It is also temporarily possible for a employer who employs more than 4 thousand workers to carry out a maximum of 7 000 500 hours of temporary and occasional work during the calendar month. The results of the survey, the professional barometer for 2022, announced a deficit for healthcare, information technology, education, construction, transport, catering and non-industrial working methods groups. Among 177 professions, there are 108 such where a shortage of staff is expected to exceed the labour market supply needs of employers. The work has always been respected in Slovenian society. With new technologies and technological progress, there are opportunities for us to do our work according to human measure. The starting point of the current mandate is promising. Our decisions and actions at the time of the crown pandemic today result in considerable and sustained economic growth. We have record low unemployment and a record high number of employees. We have provided people with a better payment for the work done, and we have increased the minimum wage. We enable the development of competences and skills that lead to better quality and better paid jobs. The main objective of the bill is to mitigate the consequences of the shortage of labour resulting from the high employment and general shortage of workers and, due to the large hospital absence of employees as a result of the Covid-19 epidemic. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Alenka Bratušek Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! The occasional and temporary employment of pensioners allows work under a civil law contract to preserve the possibility of individual participation and can also provide for additional earnings. Under current legislation, a single pensioner may work temporarily and occasionally for a maximum of 60 hours per calendar month and not more than 720 hours per year. Nevertheless, the fact is that more and more pensioners are thinking about more active participation in society and consequently reintegrating or entering the labour market. The number of pensioners who opt for such a form of earnings has soared before the epidemic occurred. In the SAB, we have been advocating all the time that pensioners can work without restrictions. Accurate data on what forms of occasional and temporary work are most likely to be affected by pensioners are not available, but data are available from the Statistical Office, which shows that the most pensioners are employed in health care. The proposed amendment to the temporary work granted to pensioners allows this measure to be up to date in full employment and foresees the activation of ex-employees with an individual employer who are already qualified for work and can therefore be reintroduced as soon as possible in the work process or for persons who are already familiar with the individual work process and are already working on the basis of the institution in question. According to the new proposal, pensioners will be able to work for a maximum of 90 hours per month and the sum of the annual repurchase must not exceed 1,080 hours. We agree that the draft law thus recognises their potential for contributing to society, particularly when, at the time of the covid-19 epidemic, because of the many restrictions that have been imposed on them, they felt quite different, to which we have also consistently warned in the SAB. Before I conclude, I should also like to draw attention to the SUS calculation, which says that, in order to reach a higher annual quota of hours at the unchanged annual earnings limit, the amount of the item will be lower than the currently valid amount of 5,5 euros. Therefore, we join the call for reflection on the increase of the hourly rate also at the legal level. In the SAB, we support the proposal. We stand by ourselves, irrespective of the circumstances that post-retirement work is not limited or prohibited, as it gives many people life energy and others the means to survive normally. The pensioners are our treasurer of experience and knowledge. Their work and efforts have provided us with solid foundations for today's work and future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The Government's intention to, indirectly, through the State Council's initiative to mitigate the consequences of the shortage of labour due to large-scale hospital absences and the absence of quarantines from staff due to the incident of co-adventure is, in the opinion of Members of the Desus Group on the ground, therefore, to support the intervention law. On the basis of this proposal, pensioners can be active for more than 30 hours with the assistance of the Institute of Temporary and Occasional Work. In the Desus Group, we regret that such a measure as an aid measure to the economy or to employers in the public sector had not been envisaged before, together with other measures in anti-Korona packages, as it would in due time alleviate the shortage of labour at least in those activities that were not closed. For example, in the field of public life, in social and health activities and in education. However, in the Desus Group, we are aware that this measure, even though it might once become permanent, will not, of course, address the broader problem of labour shortages facing Slovenia in the last period. Demographic trends, the main feature of which is the growth of the older population as regards the availability of labour for labour market needs, are not encouraging. The Slovenian labour market is one of the lowest in the European Union. We have 965 thousand insurers and 624 thousand pensioners. Indeed, the number of people over 60 who are active is gradually increasing. Potential workers between the ages of 15 and 29 have been reduced by as much as 100,000. Pensioners who remain active or reactivate after retirement are rare despite the various possibilities. Only around 1.5% should be of the kind used for temporary and occasional work provided by the Labour Market Regulation Act. Approximately 2,2 % are those who remain in employment even after they have fulfilled the conditions for retirement and receive 40% of the pension and about the same percentage are those who are partially retired and partly active. Even if those who work under other civil law contracts were included, there would probably not be a 10% share of all pensioners. The shortage of labour is not just at the moment, the problem is multilayered. Thus, for example, it will not only help to raise fertility or to exacerbate pension conditions, for our workers are simply fleeing to places where they are better off, but workers from countries where employment conditions are even worse than ours. The future political set will therefore have to take a firm bite into this problem. The rescues won't come overnight. There will be a need for serious intervention in several areas. Certainly, however, it will not be necessary to think first of all about the system of wages and more appropriate remuneration of work done, more appropriate social climate within businesses, more respectability [[sign for the end of the debate]] employment and the future of education processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings again to all present. When including retired nurses, it is necessary to take into account the fact that they belong to a group with a higher probability of serious covid-19 disease, and therefore we believe that solutions for additional medical personnel should be provided, in particular, in the group of medical and healthcare students and with the redeployment of healthcare workers and co-workers among healthcare providers. Those words were addressed to us by the Government in response to the parliamentary initiative. As early as last November, we proposed a solution to the government's lack of staff, including pensioners in the work process. The fact is, not only in health care, but there is a shortage of labour everywhere, and it is a logical decision, a measure to invite to work those who already know how to work, because there is no time to introduce. In the government's response, we were surprised, because it's somehow clear that if there's a shortage of labour, you're not dealing with who's responsible for this, but you're looking for a solution. We thought it was a measure to recruit pensioners who are willing to trade their deserved rest for night work and save lives very much on the spot. As mentioned earlier, we have been taught that this group is most susceptible to the difficult course of the disease, but it was not a suitable legal basis. We are very pleased in the Slovenian National Party that pensioners are no longer a group that is more susceptible to difficult progress and that the Government has only found a way to regulate the possibility that they will now be dealt with in a difficult way also with retired staff. Maybe the marriage proposal is not the best, but given that we receive daily requests from people who cannot see doctors to take care of them or everything else, or that they have to wait up to 5 days for transportation because there is no one to do it to them, the proposal is just a step in the right direction. I think it is clear to everyone that there is a lot of work ahead of the government in the next term. There will be a lot of mistakes in the past if we want to work for the good of the Slovenians. It is very urgent, and it is essential that in these three bad months at least then we lay good foundations so that the new composition will be easier. For the time being, however, we can only be grateful that there are people who are willing to work and help the country operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u69	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues have a nice day! The amendment in question increases the quota for possible working hours within the framework of the Institute of Temporary and Occasional Work of Retired Persons. We have known this form in our legislation for several years and have not proven to be problematic, on the contrary. It allows for the further work activation of those pensioners and pensioners who wish or are able to do so. Of course, the current regime contains certain restrictions or safeguards so that such an institution does not distort the labour market. Epidemics of the virus’s crown have greatly affected the processes, especially in the last wave of mass infections, when a chronic deficit in the presence of employees in the workplace has occurred due to certain isolations and quarantines. Therefore, the decision of the proposer of this law to increase the scope of the temporary and occasional work of pensioners is logical and reasonable, particularly for those pensioners who are already using and participating in the work processes within enterprises and for former employees who would like to be reinvigorated. But the marriage comes too late or we miss it for at least a few months. More than today, it would be needed when the number of infections due to omicron was rapidly increasing. Today’s numbers, or epidemic situation, are fortunately more optimal, even in the phase of anti-Corona action. This is more than a sufficient indication that the main train to achieve temporary replacement of the workforce has already been delayed. Of course, we must also be prepared for the coming autumn and winter, because unfortunately, the model for the development of new versions of the virus cannot be predicted. The problem that arises before the adoption of the law is to harmonise or increase the hourly rate for the occasional and temporary work of pensioners in order to be comparable to related institutes such as student work. This has already been discussed at the meeting of the home working body and a new law on labour market regulation has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure on Friday, which addresses this issue and addresses it accordingly. We support unrelated Members to deal with this legal change as soon as possible and to raise the clock as soon as possible. We support unrelated Members to deal with this legal change as soon as possible and to raise the clock as soon as possible. We expect the government or the department to do its part. Unfortunately, it is also difficult to avoid criticism or the stepfatherly attitude of this government toward the pensioners who were sent a few months ago for forced retirement, if we recall, after one of the anti - crown laws. The Constitutional Court retained this decision by the legislator until the final decision. Let us also remember that the government coalition has adopted such a solution and advocated in total absence or ignorance of social dialogue. Nevertheless, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we estimate that, at the substantive level, the proposed solutions are meaningful and necessary and do not violate the rights of pensioners to a decent pension and a peaceful life in retirement, but give those pensioners who wish to do so the possibility of additional work activation. Let each one decide according to his or her abilities and needs. This also shows intergenerational solidarity in these challenging epidemiological social times, which we all like to stress. Of course, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u71	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u72	Respectable. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal of the Law on Intervention Measures to Support the Labour Market, which has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure. We have the highest economic growth and at the same time the lowest unemployment, which, of course, we can be very proud of. That is why further efforts are needed to ensure the continued and smooth functioning of an economy that is a driving force for development and prosperity. Here in particular, I stress that the main objective of the bill is to mitigate the shortage of labour resulting from the large number of hospital absences of employees and the absence of many employees due to quarantines that are determined either by them or by their family members, which is, of course, the result of covida-19. I also stress that this is a temporary measure that will apply until 31. 12. 2022. Article 27 of the ZUTD Act now in force provides that a pensioner may carry out temporary or occasional work up to a maximum of 60 hours per calendar month, with unused hours not to be carried out within the next calendar month. Notwithstanding the above, the pensioner may carry out temporary or occasional work for a maximum of 90 hours in the calendar month, but not more than three times in the calendar year, with the number of hours of temporary and occasional work performed during the calendar year not exceeding 720 hours. Article 2 of the proposal of this Act proposes an exemption from that rule in such a way as to allow pensioners to perform a maximum of 90 temporary or temporary work or a maximum of 120 hours in the calendar month, but not more than three times in the calendar year. The Joint Fund for Temporary or Occasional Work at Annual Level shall not exceed 1080 hours. Under Article 2 of this Act, it is proposed that a maximum of 7 000 500 hours of temporary and temporary work may be performed in the employer who employs more than 4 thousand workers. This is an exception that will not affect the labour market, as only five such companies, which employ more than 4 thousand people, are registered in Slovenia. As I said in the introduction, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u73	Thank you, too. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u74	Dear Prime Minister, Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague. We have before us the Law on Intervention Measures to Support the Labour Market. The aim of the bill is to mitigate the consequences of the shortage of labour resulting from the large number of hospital absences of employees and the absence of certain quarantines for both employees and their family members, as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic. This is expected to be achieved by increasing the level of occasional and temporary work of pensioners. The measure would apply until the end of this year. In LMŠ, we are aware of the consequences that the rapid spread of the coronary virus and the increased number of certain quarantines or isolations leaves on the labour market. As a result, a number of companies face a shortage of employees, jeopardising the functioning of business processes. We believe that action is urgently needed in this regard. However, we must point out at this point that the government has come back very late or even too late by means of measures. We've been seeing an increase in infections since the end of last year. Already on 3 January, the Minister of Health expressed concern about the increase in infections and, consequently, certain quarantines, which could lead to the collapse of work processes due to the lack of employees. Today, however, we are in a situation where the government has virtually released all measures and from one extreme to another. However, it is not until 21 February that we decide on a law that will mitigate the consequences of labour shortages in the labour market. Too late. However, we can all agree, and in the LMŠ we have already repeatedly warned that the Government should have pre-prepared proposals for measures for different situations, even in the fact that this is not the first wave of the epidemic. It is unacceptable that competent authorities must be repeatedly alerted and called for assistance for individual sectors. It should also be noted that the proposal for a law does not adequately address the situation. The period during which the restrictions on the temporary and occasional work of pensioners would apply is too long. The Coronavirus epidemic in our country has lasted almost two years, and in both 2020 and last year, the number of infections declined in the summer months, which is very likely this year. The draft law also does not specify any specific conditions when it is possible to increase the number of hours worked by pensioners, which in practice allows for more work by pensioners regardless of the reason for the lack of workers. This was also pointed out in the Pergam Union Confederation, where they stated that this form of work could be extended to this extent in order to quote: “began to distort the labour market and that this form of work would become unfair competition under the employment contract to be performed by persons who were supposed to have social security provided from another address and would therefore be willing to do a job for which the employer would otherwise have to hire someone under the employment contract for a substantially lower cost of work.” End of story. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment to the LMŠ and the SD to replace the duration of the measure by 30 June 2022 with the possibility of an extension. The government came too late with the law, which is significant, but the law was not re-examined in the context of social dialogue, despite the fact that the proposal interferes with the areas that should be addressed when the social partners are actively involved. With such actions by the Government of Janez Janša and also by Minister Janez Cigler, the King clearly points out that he does not want to establish social dialogue and the reinvigoration of the Economic and Social Council in order to exclude social partners, especially trade unions, from all forms of cooperation in the preparation of legislation and other measures that directly or directly affect the social life of the inhabitants of Slovenia. The social partners have great experience and practical knowledge that they can help with the preparation of proposals in a qualitative, professional and practical way. This could be done in addressing all anti-Korona packages, which would prevent a number of uncertainties and questions that have arisen in practice, as well as in addressing today's bill. Social dialogue [[sign for the end of the debate]] Indeed there is no legal obligation, but, Government, respect for social dialogue indicates its attitude towards democracy. Otherwise, we will not object to the proposal of the law in the LMŠ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, given that the Government has today released most of the measures concerning quarantine and so on, I am afraid that this law will actually miss the goal. But still. Social Democrats are aware that, at this unpredictable time of epidemics, there are a number of problems in covid companies with the organisation of work processes. Many companies face large numbers of absent workers due to isolation, quarantine, disease. And, of course, for the protection of children. The actual shortage of workers has been particularly critical and is in this last wave of epidemics, where omicron prevails, which is a particularly contagious version of the virus and has caused the largest number of infections so far. We therefore believe that this intervention measure, which solves the current crisis, is a lack of labour in some way an answer in the right direction. However, as I have already said, on the one hand we are releasing measures, on the other hand, the Government is putting the law into consideration, which will in fact no longer help in this situation. It will, however, allow companies to employ more pensioners for a greater amount of temporary or occasional work. In this way, companies will also be able to temporarily employ their former workers, who already, of course, have work experience to do a particular job and do not need a longer period of introduction into their work processes. However, as I have already said to the Social Democrats, we ask ourselves, or I must say, that we appeal to the Government, that it has reacted in some way too late in view of the current situation in the country, so it is not acceptable for us, too, that a law that interferes with the labour market and also affects the position of workers in the legislative process without any social dialogue. No one will convince me that in times of crisis it is not possible to call the social partners for one table and if we are all realistic and if we all assess the direction the country is going and what it needs, then I think it is possible to achieve this social dialogue, but of course not the Government is doing everything alone without social dialogue. We would like to point out that in laws that affect the economic social situation of workers, it is necessary to maintain the actual scope and nothing will help us not to know what kind of billboard to cry if we simply do not have those grounds to talk to the social partners. I have to say that with LMŠ, what my colleague said before me, we have also tabled an amendment on the working body to limit this law or that the pensioners can work 90 hours a month to 30 hours. 6. because this is an intervention measure, but this amendment has been rejected. I am sorry, but nevertheless, the Social Democrats are aware of the situation, we are behind schedules and will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. With the present law, the ruling coalition wants to enable companies to make more use of the work of pensioners than they can benefit today. The reason why this law has been brought into the parliamentary procedure is that employers' problems to deal with all infections and quarantines with the lack of working ability are said to be employees who can do a certain job, but as soon as we go through the law, we can see that this explanation is somewhat attracted to the hair. For starters, the law does not distinguish between employers who have a real problem with infections, quarantines and so on and their manufacturing processes under this heading are also behind everyone else. What does that mean? That, through the thumb and with the aim of further exaggerating the labour market and establishing unfair competition to regular employment contracts with all the labour rights attached to these regular contracts, the Government is expanding the possibility of working for pensioners. So we are not talking as much about the topic of the epidemic intervention as we are talking about the Government's intention to further burden the pensioner. And these are already in a very invisible position. After a man has served his 40s, he deserves to live and enjoy a peaceful age, but as we know, poverty among pensioners is great, pensions are very bad. Instead of taking care of a safe age in which people can participate as they sing their heart and not being forced to work for the wage, the government is engaged in pre-harvesting the labour market. The hourly wage for the work of pensioners is shamefully low even lower than the student hourly rate and amounts to 4 euros net. That is precisely why, following the consideration of the current draft law at the competent working body of the National Assembly in Levica, we have tabled a new Law on Labour Market Regulation, comparing the minimum hourly number of pensioners to the net amount of that hourly item received by students. This is a raise from €4 net to €5.21 net. We hope that this initiative will be adopted. After all, on the Committee, all of the representatives of employers to representatives of the Government spoke in favour of this increase or the equalization of the hourly work of the pensioners with the work of the student. But this problematic ambition of the law that we are dealing with today does not really change anything. People should be allowed a safe age, not that the authorities are drafting legislation in a way that will force more pensioners instead of enjoying their old years of deserved rest, forced to lay down and fill shelves in their local Mercators to break their backs in production halls. This is totally wrong, it is rejected and it is unfair to people who have already contributed to society and deserve to be given a safe age by society. As you can see from my words, we will, of course, oppose this bill in Levica. We want a safe age for people who are retired and we want a fair pay for those who are active in work, but not that at the expense of age, which is not in any way socially safe by expanding the work of pensioners, the extent to which regular contracts in our society are in force today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u79	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the final provision have been tabled. Since no amendment has been adopted by the original working body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 22 in line with the meeting’s time frame. 2. 2022 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Secondly, the proposal for a law on emergency measures to ease the consequences of the high price effect of the energy within the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Jerne Vrtovac, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members! At the Ministry of Infrastructure, before we coordinated this law, we also inter-resorted it, also coordinated it with other stakeholders, and in particular made a thorough analysis of why this crisis occurred with energy prices. In this context, as the EU's Presidency Member State, we have also convened an Energy Ministers' Summit in Luxembourg, and we have indeed discussed thoroughly, analysed the situation that has affected not only Slovenia, but the whole European Union. Now, the reasons for the crisis, for rising energy prices, are certainly different, but the main ones are the rise in gas prices, the reduction in gas stocks in the territory of the European Union. Furthermore, CO2 price rises, emission coupons. You know, the emission coupons have grown from 20 euros in the last year to almost 100 euros. At this point, the show ticket is just under 100 euros. So there are a lot of factors, but there are also specific weather phenomena, low water quality, which also makes our hydropower plants difficult to avoid. Finally, some reckless moves about the so-called green transition, thus increasing electricity prices, with increasing electricity consumption, are happening to reduce our energy independence. In this context, the Government has prepared short- and long-term measures, very responsible. However, since we cannot only look at today, today, it is important that we also address long-term measures first, it is said what will happen to the energy independence of Slovenia and Europe in the coming periods. Certainly our support for the European Commission's decision on taxonomy, which includes nuclear technology, is very much on the ground, and we welcome this decision by the European Commission. Accordingly, we have also issued an energy permit at our Ministry for the second block of the nuclear power plant in Krske. In the short term, we have pursued two objectives. The first objective, assistance to the most vulnerable groups, are certainly recipients of a 150-euro solidarity allowance, pensioners receiving a pension of less than 1,000 euros, socially disadvantaged persons, large families, these are very burdened groups of people, recipients of child allowances up to the sixth income class, foster parents and disabled people. All these persons will receive €150 of the supplement, the so-called energy voucher, which will be paid by April 15th. The value of this measure is €106 million, which is not a burden on the budget, but in line with the European Commission's toolbox, these funding from the Climate Fund goes. You will say yes, but this fund was intended for our green transition – yes, but it has allowed and specifically recommended in the European Commission's toolbox. However, since we said it was important to place this burden on all citizens and citizens and to relieve them, we have reduced the price of deposits by about 35% for all households. We're not charging the budget again. But on each item, divided into three parts, there is also a contribution in one part to renewable energy, excise duty, and for the next three months a contribution to renewable energy and also excise duty shall be deleted. However, the specific part that we have addressed to all consumers, all households and all economic customers, is a network that is also deleted for the next three months. So the average bet is going to be 35% lower. All the people, all the households, will be burdened. So, with two measures, we are helping the most burdened and vulnerable and, finally, by reducing the price of the bet for all households and all economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u81	Thank you, too. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Bojan Pod oblast.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, for your word. Honourable Minister Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure, with co-worker, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 53rd emergency meeting, 16. 2. 2022, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the impact of high energy prices. On behalf of the proposaler, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure Blaž Kosorok stressed that, due to the rise in social pressures of the population, the Government had prepared a proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the impact and impact of high energy prices in the field of energy, social protection and rights from public resources and had presented the key measures set out in the proposal. In the debate, MEPs and members of opposition opposition groups expressed the view that the estimated amount of a single solidarity allowance of 150 euros would not be sufficient to mark the pressure of the most vulnerable, since significantly more expensive rates mean [[?]] since December or throughout the whole winter. In addition, many who are not entitled to it will receive the supplement. For example, it has been pointed out that all families that are eligible for an allowance for large families will not receive an additional supplement under the law, nor are they in a unique social situation. On the other hand, the selection of beneficiaries does not contain some criteria which they believe should cover as many as possible, and they have highlighted some of the active population whose income is lower than the first risk of poverty and young families or pupils. With regard to Article 5, however, the concerns of the Chamber of Employment with Real Estate regarding the equivalence of the position of the floor owners were highlighted. In their discussions, MPs and members of coalition groups stressed that the current government has been facing criticism from the very beginning in adopting measures to help the population. This was the case with all intervention measures related to the fight against covid-19 epidemics. The same is true now that the population wants to help to cope with the emotional irritations of energy. In all these cases, the opposition government has been criticised for being overly and recklessly indebted. At the same time, however, every time, even in the case of this proposal, the opposition has tabled amendments aimed at extending the range of measures and beneficiaries, thereby increasing the cost of the measures. They also submitted, submitted an international analysis showing that Slovenia is at the very top of the efficiency and management of the covid-19 crisis, and the effects, the criticisms, were not justified. As a result, they expressed the view that the measures in this intervention law had also been taken by the Government to give due consideration. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment to the 4th Article of the Committee and the left-wing group at Article 5 and then voted on all the articles together and adopted the law by 11 votes to none. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u83	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The views of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u84	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members and Members. The energy crisis has threatened Europe since last summer. Of course, Slovenia is no exception. If so, we were exceptional only in terms of passivity and non-action. Despite the extraordinary impressions that some citizens have experienced, the government has not done anything or, above all, promised and predicted. For too long, we have remained among a handful of countries of the European Union that have failed to respond to the energy crisis. We have tried our best to relieve the citizens of the crisis. All our suggestions came across a deaf ear. We have also tried four times in the SAB Group in order to prevent and tackle the scale of the crisis to extend the possibility of using so-called tourist vouchers in a way that could also be used for energy costs. We believed that beneficiaries who had not yet made use of their vouchers should also have the right to cash this right for the purpose, which would certainly alleviate the hardships of the people. Of course you didn't hear us either. However, this also did not appear to the government to be an effective measure. At last, we were just waiting for the marriage and very disappointed. The law certainly does not solve the problems of those most affected. Undoubtedly, there are beneficiaries of aid. Of course, that makes us happy. But help will also be given to individuals who do not really need it. These include those customers who have not been raised by energy suppliers, the trading chain, banks, and in short, companies that operate with high profits. In the SAB Group in general, we see the biggest problem of law. We believe that it should be a fundamental guide and, at the same time, the main criteria for determining beneficiaries are this tendency to reach those individuals who have actually been raised by the price of energy and have been seriously affected by the crisis. We do not agree with the Government on the provision of financial resources. In the record debt we have witnessed over the past two years, it seems unacceptable that funds for the implementation of the law are provided from the Climate Change Fund. The fund, which is most intended to care for the green future, is a fund for which we have saved for a very long time and, above all, for a clear purpose. We thus take EUR 106 million to solar power plants, railways, e-mobility, public transport, information, digitalisation, maintenance and upgrade of the undernourished electricity system. Do you have any idea how much money we've taken from the green future? Half of what we've been used to in the past few years. In fact, even more than half and you'll take all that green transformation. Taking into account the three-month removal of the network for all consumers, households and businesses, the concern for the green future is even more threatened. This measure will put all electricity distribution companies in an extremely disadvantaged position for three months. During this period, there will thus be no euro of income to cover its basic costs, salaries for employees, but investments that are the basis for achieving the green objectives and for maintaining and upgrading a sub-fed network that does not meet the needs of users after the installation of solar power plants. [[Incomprehensible]] And until they reach them, the realization of energy climate commitments will be impossible. The achievement and achievement of renewable energy-related objectives continues to be a long way off in the future. Our proposal is that instead of a network, the state temporarily reduces or removes the VAT paid by all those who receive a power, gas or remote heating bill. This was done in a neighbouring country, for example in Croatia. In this way, the country takes on the burden of the energy crisis. That would be the only way to solve problems. Because we are looking forward to the SAB and because we care about the future we have prepared feasible plans, we give the floor to establish a third green energy pillar and thus speed up the green transformation of our cities. It is simply not fair that tenants in multi-housing buildings do not participate actively, with residents paying hundreds of thousands of euros and more in many housing blocks in the support scheme. We will therefore facilitate the construction of solar and wind power plants. The government should therefore cut down on other measures, and even less take measures that will bring about a green transformation of society, so we will not support the bill. However, since the constitutional complaint against your marriage is already being announced, you will also have to take on your shoulders the fact that the euro of aid does not reach people because you stubbornly insist on a solution that is not good. Too bad you can't hear us.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Days ago, we were able to read the data published by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which shows that inflation has increased significantly in January with rapid rises in energy, food and services prices. In view of the rise in energy prices, which has had a strong impact on the social and material situation of some peoples, we are today considering a proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices prepared by the government. Despite all possible problems with what is wrong with the law, it is necessary to say that the law answers the current situation and that it solves a number of hardships for people who have found themselves in the grip of uncertainty especially now in the second half of the smoking season. The bill provides for the payment of a single solidarity allowance of EUR 150 for pensioners whose income for the month of December did not exceed EUR 1000, disabled persons receiving disability benefits, recipients of cash social assistance or a protective allowance, beneficiaries of a child allowance up to and including the 6th income class and beneficiaries of a large family allowance for 2021. All those beneficiaries, who are also entitled to a large family allowance for four or more children for 2021 at the same time, are entitled to an additional allowance of EUR 50. Until the above-mentioned supplement of EUR 150, the foster parents who had at least one foster contract concluded in December are entitled. The allowance would be paid to the beneficiaries by 15 April of this year at the latest. Some controversy on the Committee resulted in a solution relating to the temporary exemption from the payment of the contribution to provide support for electricity production, high-efficiency cogeneration and renewable energy for final customers, low-voltage demand groups without the measurement of power and household electricity consumers. This introduces a legal basis for temporary exemption from payment of the contribution, since it is a one-off decision that applies only for a certain period due to the emergency situation in the field of electricity prices. The bill introduces two other important solutions. One relates to the reduction of the tariff items for the calculation power and the taken-over labour force and the profitability of the electro-operators, with these tariffs being reduced to zero. The second, and also a very important solution, relates to the equalisation of the rights of all domestic natural gas customers. According to the latter solution, the floor owners of individual dwellings in multi-housing buildings, which heat their apartment with heat from joint combustion plants to natural gas, where household customers are co-owners of joint boilers, are allowed to have all rights in the purchase of gas for these joint combustion plants in relation to the purchase conditions of natural gas, such as those of domestic natural gas customers buying natural gas for their own use. At the meeting of the working body, we also adopted a supplement according to which this measure could apply from 1 January 2022 onward. The proposal for an Emergency Action Act to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices will be specifically supported by the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u87	Thank you, too. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues. Concerned that in Slovenia, 10% of households with the lowest income spend on average a quarter of their heating income and the remaining energy consumption at home. The crisis has driven these indicators into the sky, which is particularly painful for pensioners and pensioners and, of course, for other vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we understand very well that they are in the area of so-called ‘e.g. Energy poverty needs intervention measures by the country that will ease this crisis. As a result of the rise in social pressures of the population as a result of the impact of high energy prices, today, on our benches, the proposal for a law with urgent measures, which provides for the payment of a single solidarity allowance of 150 euros for pensioners with pensions of less than 1,000 euros, further for beneficiaries of disability benefits, for recipients of cash social assistance or a protective allowance, for beneficiaries of a child allowance of 1st to 6th grade and for beneficiaries of an allowance for large families and foster parents. The deadline for payment of the supplement is indeed April 15th, which we also consider to be late in the DeSUS Group, which is why we are pleased to explain to the representative of the Government, who on the working body said that the date mentioned is the extreme possible date of payment, because it is necessary to check the justification of the individual categories before this payment, which will require a certain period of time. On the basis of this explanation, we can reasonably hope that the funds will be in the accounts as soon as possible. From the point of view of the lower costs for households, it is also important that a measure provides for the exemption of the payment of the network by both connecting power and electricity consumption for all consumers for three months, from 1 February to 30 April this year. Together with the lower excise duty on electricity, the amount on the stand will decrease by around 30 % during this period. These are measures that refer to all citizens and citizens. The bill also provides for the equivalency of all domestic natural gas customers, i.e. those with individual hens as well as those with common boilers. On the basis of the amendment adopted, these rights shall be guaranteed for an indefinite period from 1 January 2022 onwards. As a parliamentary group that advocates the rights of the elderly, we will support the bill as it also addresses some 465,000 pensioners who have less than a thousand euros in pensions. We are aware that a single supplement does not mean a systemic solution to the eradication of energy poverty, but the epidemic has shown supervisory weaknesses in other systems, and only these will need to be addressed in the future a great deal of activity and, above all, a wider operation for the common good. In the Desus Group, as we have already said, we will unanimously support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u89	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister! Energy prices have been rising for some time, essentially the prices of all services and products. It is true that, due to the epidemic, we have been less attentive to price increases now that we are all slowly calming down, this growth has hit us like a lightning bolt. The fact is, as a result, prices of services and products will continue to rise as energy prices rise. I'm not going to go too far in saying that last September the competent minister explained that the price increases for energy will not affect the other prices. I also do not intend to elaborate that the government has written a law before the elections. People are in the cold, they need help, and so are businesses and, finally, farmers. The 150 euros the country will spend on people is not much, but it will help many to breathe more easily. I certainly agree that not all recipients need it because they deserve enough. However, I find it unusual that no one has infiltrated the sixth paragraph of Article 2, which states that this allowance received is not considered to be an income in the exercise of public funds rights except in the case of exceptional social assistance. I don't know if you know, but with the help of extraordinary social assistance in these difficult months, a lot of us are not talking about sloths who are exploiting social transfers, but also people who have jobs, people who served you coffee in the store this morning have charged you the goods they bought. In fact, this way they could have bought wood, oil for heating or paid their bills. The condition for extreme social assistance is not that you are a recipient of financial social assistance, but that your monthly income is so low that it does not allow you to live a normal life. This group includes a large proportion of pensioners, workers who work for a little more than a minimum wage. So now, because of 150 euros, they will lose the opportunity to receive about 600 euros in emergency social assistance. I believe that this is more important than the fact that some ministers will also receive the solidarity allowance. 150 euros and a temporary exemption from the payment of a contribution to support energy production are only a patch to the wound caused by the epidemic and we were not paying any attention to it. Believe that there are many areas where people urgently need help. Perhaps now we could start thinking about solidarity contributions during the new school year, where parents will find it even harder to buy school supplies for their children. Perhaps another medical area where it was almost impossible to reach a doctor or specialist who could detect the disease at the right time during these two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u91	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u92	Since the government has preferred to deal with the impact of rising energy prices in recent months, it has taken matters into consideration by the opposition, which has prepared and put in place a proposal for a law on temporary measures to prevent energy poverty in the last year. But, of course, the coalition did not support the opposition proposal, but now, six months later, the government brought a similar proposal to the table. The government proposal for a law is prepared in such a way that around 710 000 beneficiaries are entitled to a single solidarity allowance, whether or not they have been affected by rising energy prices. The government would spend more than €106 million on this, with only €150 per beneficiary. This is half less than some individuals have increased the monthly amount for heating costs. For example, nothing has changed for users who have an electric company for their supplier, which has publicly stated that prices are not and will not increase by at least half this year. The following is the case of those who warm up to trees and who also feel no difference. On the other hand, the government has forgotten the majority of the working population, which lives in residential blocks and students in rented apartments. The result of the distribution of vouchers across the board, therefore without specific criteria, is that the aid will also be received by those who do not actually need it and, on the other hand, those who receive it insufficiently or less than they could with the same amount of funds. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have proposed an appropriate amendment in the course of the consideration of the law on the home working body, so that the beneficiaries of the single solidarity allowance will be those who have actually increased their energy price. Since this would reduce the number of beneficiaries, each of them could receive 300 and not only 150 euros, which is significantly closer to the height of the increase. We added an even faster payment to this amendment, in March, because the government proposal envisions April 15th as the date of payment, just before the elections and after the end of the heating season. The fact that the government is exploiting price increases and the pressure of people to campaign is totally unacceptable. People need help right away because they've been getting high heating bills for four months. It is also problematic that the Government will draw money for the solidarity allowance from the Climate Change Fund. The funds from this fund are intended to mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change, to increase energy efficiency, to decarbonise and to build renewable energy facilities, and these are measures for energy independence in the medium and long term, which is what we need if we are to avoid such effects of future prices. We therefore believe that the funds from the Fund must be spent in accordance with these purposes and that the money for the energy voucher should be allocated from the budget. In the situations in which we are in the field of energy today, it is our belief that medium- and long-term strategic measures should be identified and adopted as soon as possible, which would contribute to affordable energy for all households and businesses and strengthen the resilience of the Slovenian energy market in the future. This is the only way to prevent such a surge in energy prices and, as a result, the rise in energy poverty as a result of global market imbalances.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honourable Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, with co-workers, colleagues and all those accompanying today's meeting! Due to the increasing social pressures of the population due to the impact of high energy prices, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Infrastructure have prepared a proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the impact and impact of high energy prices on energy, social protection and rights from public resources. With a view to improving the social security of vulnerable groups, the bill provides for the payment of a single solidarity allowance of €150 for the purpose of eliminating the consequences of preventing energy prices. The intended beneficiaries of the allowance shall be persons who are identified as beneficiaries of the social security allowance referred to in Article 67 of the Act on additional measures to prevent the spread, easing, control, recovery and elimination of the effects of covid-19, which for the recipient for the month of December 2021 amounted to a thousand euros or less. The beneficiaries of the disability allowance for the month 2021 under the law governing the social separation of persons with disabilities; the recipients of the cash social assistance or the allowance for the month of December 2021, the beneficiaries of the child allowance from 1 to including the 6th income class for the month of December 2021; the beneficiaries of the large family allowance for 2021 and the foster parents who had at least one foster contract in December 2021 in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the implementation of the breeding activity; the beneficiaries of the large family allowance for four or more children for 2021. An additional €150 eligible for an allowance of €150 is estimated at €106.5 million. The allowance shall be paid no later than 15 April 2022 and the funds shall be provided from the Climate Change Fund. Other measures constitute a temporary exemption from the payment of a contribution to the provision and support of electricity production in cogeneration with high efficiency and renewable energy sources for household consumers and for customers of low-voltage power grids. This is a contribution to be determined by the Government by providing for a method of determining the amount of the payment of the contribution and by the Energy Agency merely calculating their amount on the basis of contributions, criteria and regulation. The contribution shall not be part of the network determined independently by the Agency, but shall be made by the Agency by an implementing act following the implementation of the Government. As a result, the suspension of the payment of the contribution is hereby adopted by this Act, since it is a one-off decision on the temporary non-payment of the contribution for a certain period due to the emergency situation in the field of electricity prices. As a third measure envisaged, the reduction of the tariff item for the distribution and transmission operator for the calculation power and the energy taken over by the Agency for all customers, the customer group in a three-month period. In the average account of the customer, such a discount will be expressed in approximately 30% of the lower rate. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has appropriately weighed the measures in the intervention law. However, there is another evidence that international analyses at EU level have shown that Slovenia is at the very top of the COPID-19 crisis. In the SDS Group, we will guarantee with great responsibility all 26 votes for the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u95	Thank you, too. The positions of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Edward Paulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. More than four months ago, the European Commission adopted a set of measures to help its citizens and the economy with rising energy prices. Among other things, current price increases require a rapid and coordinated response, 20 Member States have taken measures or are planning to adopt them. On the same day as this recommendation by the European Commission was issued, our Minister of Infrastructure had a press conference where he said before the entire Slovenian public: “No panic is necessary, the situation in Slovenia regarding the energy market is stable as regards electricity and gas prices, we are on the safe side.” In October last year, 20 Member States had already planned or even adopted measures and the Minister of Infrastructure was selling us a story on stability. And if the Government has taken the right to take measures to prepare for four months, despite the long-standing need for assistance from citizens, they would rightly expect the measures to be communicated with the social stakeholders and to address all social groups in a fair manner. And none of this happened. The fact is, not everyone has been affected equally by the stimulation of energy. For example, earth’s gas has been irradiated significantly more than electricity. Citizens who are heated through joint boilers or who are heated through remote heating systems without the possibility of a supplier being selected are significantly more affected than those who are heated by wood or not electricity, such as through a heat pump system. It is therefore obvious from the outset that the government proposal does not refer to all social groups. The government has forgotten about the young again. On the Home Committee, we tabled an amendment to the LMŠ which would extend the eligibility of aid to students and students who are entitled to an allowance under the law on scholarships. Unfortunately, the coalition rejected the amendment because it apparently believes that students and students are immune to the stimulation of energy. Unlike students and students, there will be four ministers of the current government, for whom we estimate in the LMŠ that they are not exactly in financial distress. The government also discriminates against foster parents who are or will conclude a foster contract this year. These will not be eligible for aid. If some ministers have granted a special allowance because they have four or more children, the foster parents who have four or more children will not receive this supplement. If I touch the heating problems over the joint boilers. The Government shall not duly address domestic consumers and shall grant them the right to domestic energy consumption until 1 February or after the adoption of the amendment on the home committee as from 1 January of this year. The Government therefore respects the decision taken on one of the previous committees, which we have proposed in the opposition. The decision was confirmed by both the government and the coalition. He urged the Government to prepare a legal explanation by which household customers are heated through joint boilers eligible for household allowance already under the applicable law. The government proposal gives them this right only from 1 January of this year, which is consequently interpreted in such a way that they were not eligible until that date. And if it took the government four months to come up with a proposal for marriage, it is incomprehensible that citizens will not receive assistance until two months after the adoption of the law. Of course, this deadline is not randomly set. The government obviously thinks that helping people will come more just a week before the elections than now when we really need it. [[sign for the end of the debate]] In LMŠ we regret that the government coalition on the parent board did not confirm our amendments with which we wanted to help both students and students and foster families. We also proposed an immediate payment of the aid. However, this coalition should give priority to the resolution of people's pressures, not to the accumulation of political points.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The positions of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u98	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues. Since last summer, signs and indications have begun to indicate that there might be a rise in energy. If, at the end of last year, only some of the energists felt the impression, we feel them from the beginning of this year’s year. Energy irritations are happening all over Europe, and already in mid-October, the European Commission has done something that we are not usually used to. It has issued a special set of possible measures that can be implemented by countries due to energy efficiency. They have explicitly highlighted direct support to vulnerable households. This move by the European Commission was a sign of exceptional circumstances and that we are victims of an exceptional increase in energy prices, which will be the most difficult to cope with and that, to this end, we will also have to cut down on direct subsidies and other measures to protect consumers. The Slovenian Government, which chaired the European Union at that time, has not responded to this problem. The Council of Ministers only called on this issue on 26 November, a month and a half after the European Commission had already decided on possible measures, and almost two months after it had faced the first questions in its domestic Parliament that it had answered with cynical advice on the exchange of tenderers. In the opposition, we have called on several meetings of the competent committees to find out what, if any, the Slovenian government intends to do. We only got one concrete promise, and it was that the government would help the most vulnerable with 150 euros in energy vouchers. However, the legislative proposal is to be considered at one of the future meetings. As no government activity has been detected by the government by the month of December, the Social Democrats, at ever lower temperatures and higher energy prices, have prepared an appropriate law on their own to provide the legal basis for the rapid realization of at least the most basic aid to the most affected. We have prepared a legal basis for a measure announced by the government, 150 euros of energy credit for the most endangered households, and more than that, we have followed the good and working solutions designed by this government. But unfortunately, this government is not about people, it's about prestige and power. Of course, our marriage proposal and the solutions we have proposed have not been supported by the ruling coalition. And now it's clear that this winter people had to get to know each other. The government simply let them down. Only after the pressure of the opposition, the extraordinary meetings of the committees, the questions sent and the marriage proposal tabled has the government drawn up a law that will help the most vulnerable in our society. The objectives and solutions are similar to those proposed in the above-mentioned law, but this time it is a matter of the law that we are considering today, government and not opposition. All comments, amendments and dynamics and discussions at the parent committee's own meeting are evidence that the Government's legislative proposal is weak and questionable. In the Socialist Group of Members, we ask why the government brings solutions to the National Assembly only in the second half of February. Why will payment of the aid be made only in the spring months? There is also a question on the ground whether it is again a pre-election maneuver of rulings, because if they really cared and really wanted to help people, marriage solutions would have been brought into consideration at the beginning of winter and not on the threshold of spring, when the smoking season is also slowing down. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that certain solutions to this law are urgently needed and must be adopted, and some solutions remain questionable. Although we support some marriage solutions, the question remains why the government reacted so late or, rather, almost too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u99	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! As early as October last year, it was clear that a number of households would be plunged over the edge of poverty, and those households that already live there would face a dilemma — to freeze or starve. We in Levica have already requested urgent measures from the Government four months ago to mitigate the effects of energy consumption. Nothing happened. At the beginning of this year, opposition parties and I proposed the Energy Vouchers Act for the most socially vulnerable. The coalition turned him down. At the end of January, the Government proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Emergency Action Act to mitigate the consequences of high energy prices, which will give some levels a voucher of 150 euros, which they will be able to spend on anything in addition to paying the bills. In addition, those who are not poor and who have four children will be entitled to the supplements. But the money will be split a week before the elections, when the winter will be over. For another pre-eminent bonbonier, the government will draw on the Climate Fund, where the funds of large greenhouse gas pollutants are collected and designed to mitigate and adapt to the consequences of climate change. The fact is, the ruling parties of the poor have allowed themselves to be frozen even in winter, although energy prices, as it was said, have been raging since last September, October. The fact is that, at the request of the Left and opposition parties in October, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space sat twice at emergency meetings, but the Government remained deaf for our calls for immediate action - Minister Vrtovec had everything under control at the time. As we have already learned, the government has also turned this crisis into a good one and abused it for the purposes of the pre-election campaign of coalition parties, which we all are paying for. In the hard winter, the poor government left the choice to freeze or starve. Now there are suddenly pre-election gifts, including for some ministers. Energy wolves will be distributed quite randomly, they can be used for anything. Due to the naturality of the coalition, ministers with four children will be virtually on the same basis as pensioners with 300 euros of pension. Money will also be given to those who are among these two extreme beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries is determined arbitrarily and it can happen that a household with two pensioners whose pensions are higher than the minimum wage is entitled to a maximum of EUR 150 twice, while a household with two minimum wage employees will not receive a cent. Of course, money will not go out of budget; there is already everything reserved for the purchase of Tonin's armored, aircraft, missiles and other military gallantries. The money will be taken from the Climate Fund, most likely never to return. The perverse thing is that the deadline for payment is April 15th, nine days before the elections, when the radiators and ovens are no longer needed. What else is this as an abuse of public funds for the pre-election purposes of the coalition. In Levi, we have proposed that the energy vouchers be distributed within 15 days of the entry into force of this law; that they be divided according to the real income of the household and not all things; that the money be taken from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is taken to help the economy and agriculture. The coalition overrun those amendments. We are pleased that at least our amendment has been adopted on the Committee, which will reclassify all household customers as of 1 January 2022, who currently pay for the business practices of suppliers and managers of multi-housing buildings to domestic consumers. But since the second half of the season is not April 15th, when you give people your vouchers, the law in the name of the poorest, that any help they need for their survival is still bloody, we will not object in Levica. Then back up your election campaigns. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We won't all be at the expense of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u101	Thank you, too. The positions of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for an Emergency Action Act to mitigate the impact of high energy prices seeks to provide assistance to people whose material situation is threatened by high energy prices in the form of various temporary measures. Thus, the proposal for a law for the most vulnerable groups provides for a single solidarity allowance for the elimination of energy poverty of 150 euros, which is not subject to income and will be paid by 15 at the latest. 4. 2022. The beneficiaries of the single cash assistance will be pensioners whose income for December 2021 is EUR 1000 or less. The beneficiaries of the disability benefit under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities and the recipients of the financial social assistance or the allowance for December 2021 will also receive one-off cash assistance. Single cash aid will also be granted to beneficiaries of the child allowance, beneficiaries of the large family allowance and foster parents who had at least one foster contract in December 2021 in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the implementation of the fostering activity. Thus, the Single Cash Aid Bill provides for the payment of €106.5 million by some 710 000 beneficiaries. The payment of this amount will be fully burdened by the Climate Change Fund, which, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, allows the use of funds when it comes to financial support related to energy poverty. The draft law also provides for a measure of temporary exemption from the payment of the contribution to provide support for electricity production in cogeneration with high efficiency and renewable energy sources for household electricity consumers and for low voltage consumers without measuring their power. The measure shall apply from 1 February to 30 April 2022. By the way, the average customer now deducts 5.7 euros per month for renewable energy sources. The next provisional measure envisaged is a reduction in the net capacity of accounting power and labour taken over as well as the profitability of the distribution operator, which will apply to all energy consumers. Thus, the Energy Agency will be in the period between 1. Two and 30. 4. 2022 reduced tariff items for distribution operators for all withdrawal groups to zero. However, this means that the distribution companies listed will be three months without revenue, but the applicant explains that the volume of the expected revenue shortfall is the same as last year's profit, so the liquidity of these companies should not be a problem. The bill also aligns the rights relating to the price and the relationship between household natural gas customers and the floor owners of individual dwellings in multi-housing buildings, which heat their dwellings from shared boilers to natural gas. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are betting on common good and solidarity. Social security is one of the foundations for the protection of human dignity. It is a condition for the internal peace of every human being and thus also a basis for economic efficiency. Those who are no longer able to care for themselves because of age, disability, illness, or unemployment must rely on the solidarity of others. That is why Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the Article and the amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The first one gets the word "magic." Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot to say about this marriage today. I'm glad today we have a minister who wasn't on the board. However, I must make it clear that we have asked quite a few questions on the committee, and we have not received an answer to any of them. That's why I'm going to repeat them today. First of all, I'd like to know why among those lawmakers, you're listed only as officials at the Ministry. Not a single person who would sign professionally under this proposal. Does this mean that experts at the Ministry of Justice do not support this proposal? And I want a very clear answer. Then I had a question, how long are you going to make a mistake or reduce the climate fund? Of course, in the meantime, I was able to find the numbers myself, and I'll tell you that by more than 50%. More than half the money you'll take green futures, green transformations. To what all of us are full of mouths, green, green, green. Half of that, you'll take more than half of that for what this law provides. Not to mention that it's the wrong title of the law at all. This, if it should already be the address of solving social problems. Sharing pre-elections or now you're just electoral candy or you're using the whole word candy. Also on the question why you're not doing this right now. I think two days ago I read your minister's tweet about how we oh and in general and ah in the field of digitisation, information technology and so on, some 7, 6th in the world is supposed to be, and now the country needs two months to make money from the day the law is passed to people. It doesn't work together. And that can't be true. You can only choose April 15th because there are elections and that people may remember that you want to buy them with this in the elections. I even told the board that you should put this on April 22nd, and my colleague reminded me that it was not because there were early elections and it was necessary to remind people before that that that government should give them something. But you're giving them the money you took from the future. As long as you will leave it behind, no government has left EUR 40 billion behind. You have deposited EUR 40 billion on the Slovenians' shoulders either each of us or each of our citizens has more than EUR 20 000 in debt on their shoulders, and this is the picture you leave behind. This is the pure truth on my part I will say with great regret that you have managed to do so at nearly 7 percent of economic growth this history will write much about these two years. One of the things you've been warned about and threatened even by constitutional judgment, and of course they will, again, blame others for not coming to people, have made it clear that, because you're reducing networks that are not only state-owned, they're from companies that are not in 100% of the country's property, they're predicting a constitutional assessment of the law of temporary detention and constitutional judgment. And you, the only one, will blame the people in this energy crisis for not getting anything because you can't hear. Our proposal, which we have tabled and I have also said on the committee, is that instead of a network that will reduce the resources needed to rebuild infrastructure today, we have people who want to finance solar power plants themselves, but because of the poor infrastructure they cannot and will not be able to do so for you for the next years and years. In short, we propose to avoid and avoid the constitutional judgment of this law and the retention of the State to reduce VAT instead of network. Other countries did the same. This is what neighbouring Croatia has done, and this is what the state is doing to give up its own resources, not problems or as you call the solution to put on someone else's shoulders. This is our amendment to Article 4. Maybe for people it means a little less reduction in the rate, but it also means that we're going to leave the money for the future and that's exactly what it would be. Not people on minimum wages, not students, not students living alone from your own, or your candy will be very bitter for them because they won't get the money. It is true that more than half of the ministers of New Slovenia will receive this. Now is it right to support large families your policy is that I can agree with the question is whether it is right to call it an energy voucher. No more or no less cold than the cold of a single pensioner in an apartment who may not get this supplement of yours. Yes, on one side of the big families this year you might give them, on the other hand, due to your income legislation next year you will have to abolish that basic supplement. In short, this marriage is very unfair. It doesn't solve the problems you're addressing in marriage. I'm aware it wasn't easy to put together this kit. I'm aware of the difficulty of the situation. Slovenia is not the only one facing these problems, but we should take a little look around, see what other countries have done before us and that much before us, and perhaps I will put some of this more into saying the normal thing to collect that money really comes to those who are most affected. This candy will be given to people who have not actually been harmed. If they are provided with electricity by a company that ensures price stability by June, and if they are at home or perhaps even on electricity, it is said that they do not know anything. And they'll get it anyway. On the other hand, there is a remote heating of apartments in Maribor in Jesenice, where there has been a double or more increase in the number of apartments. But you'll give them no promotion in April. In the meantime, it's going to be five points five times higher. So, no, no, they're not real things, they don't hit real people. And I believe that on April 24th, or April 19, 20 and 21, on the prematures, if that was really the goal, this candy maker of yours will not help them very badly. Once again, I suggest you think about the matter that will burden the marriage and make it to the Constitutional Court. Of course, then you will all scream again at how the Constitutional Judges do not decide as you wish, but you have been warned in time. You were warned in time, you could change things, but no, put your head in the sand and move on. It is time for you to think about it, and it is time for you to replace the net that you are lowering to reduce the value added tax, and the burden of this crisis is on the state budget, which is the only right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u106	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Look, this is really hard to look at. That's the trick. I mean, we have begun to give an intensive warning, as I said in the introductory position, and for the last time on the committee, to give an intensive warning in October. We've asked for the government to act. To recognize the hardship of the people. To understand that winter is beginning, which may not be soapy, and that people will be truly on the verge of a dilemma, those who were already on the brink of poverty, and such are huge in this country, that actual people will face a dilemma, or open a radiator, smoke a furnace, or simply perish, to stretch their bread from their mouths so that they can pay their bills. We've asked for you. And you're unconscious. Without a shred of emotion, you've turned it down. Even more, Minister, you said everything was under control and so on. In short, you drove literally all of us together as usual thirsty over water. Then things got tough. Prices, we know how wild they were in the world markets. We know how to tease energy. We all feel it. Now imagine how those who actually date a few hundred euros a month feel. I know that you don't know this, and that you can't imagine, which is sad, that such people, who can't even imagine about it, end up deciding the fate of those who live it. Well, when this happened, in the opposition we prepared a bill that would immediately alleviate these difficulties in January and be targeted at those who really need help. Of course you didn't. You hit it pretty hard, too. Shameless, arrogant, without a shred of news, without a shred of your Christian grace, Minister. And then you produced your own law, which is only now under consideration and where you hear nothing again when we remind you of things that need to be corrected in this law in order to be good so that you can really help people. Let's say what we proposed in Levica with an amendment, which, of course, you smoothed out as a roller, as you do to implement the law within 15 days of the law being enforced. And no, I'm sorry, nine days before the election, as your colleague told you before me why nine days before the election. Because they're early elections at the time. I mean, embarrassing. Shameful, sad, transparent. We all see it, and it's a waste of what you're doing. But of course you're doing it at the expense of all of us. You're paying for your pre-election campaign in the most pathetic and wasteful ways. You take for bait, as said, from the Climate Change Fund, the Climate Change Fund, where nothing would be wrong if you systematically address energy poverty resolution, but in a systematic systematic way. Not as a social measure. This fund is not intended for social measures, mitigation of social pressures, this fund is intended for a green future and, of course, this fund will be fairly uprooted and you will not take the money out of the budget, from which you have spent all your time taking intervention measures to help the economy and agriculture. No, you won't do it this time. Why? I don't know. Even though the amendment and I have proposed this to you in Levica. No, you're just not going to do that, because of course not, because your attitude towards the green transition, we know what it's like. Your prime minister, who runs this government, doesn't even recognise climate change as how it would be, because it makes sense that you think it's just one fund that takes a little bit away from it, doesn't it, if you don't, take a little bit because there's some money there by chance? Then further, the fact that you are going here, into this social measure, push your “natality” too close inside, about supporting some large families again, even if these families are rich, such as the families of ministers. I mean, it's a shame. This is not a measure to support the nativity of the nation that is supposed to be, according to your projections, so [[?]] Three million, if we listen to Minister Restoration, so, I don't know, in 10 years' time probably, this is a measure that would alleviate the social distress of those who really need it, not those who don't need it, or just arbitrarily a little bit, and as I said before, with this law, the whole mess will end up getting pensioners who have pensions higher than the minimum wage, let's say they are two pensioners, two times 150 euros, and those at the "minimum" are nothing, let's say. [[…]] And they'll get ministers, and so on. I mean, it's really I don't just can't believe it anymore, but let's leave all this, if you're such poor ministers, and let's pay it back, because you feel sorry for me, because you probably need a different radiator shut down or ask yourself whether you're going to buy bread or milk. [[…]] [[…]] But, look, the fact that you've simply overstepped the amendment, which requires you to give at least now immediately to people, when we're still a little bit of heat to the furnaces and radiators, because outside at night the temperature is still very low, no, of course not. April of the month, I'm sorry, we don't smoke radiators most of the time, unless one of the bad ones freezes for a few days. Let's hope not, because then the crops will go for mushrooms. In short, it's really incomprehensible to me what you're doing, and it's surprising to me, I think you've made a mistake, but I hope that you'll still be able to accept at least one of our amendments at the time, is that you won't be more people, poor people who aren't business customers, but ordinary people who live in their apartment are cutting off prices that apply to customers for energy prices. This, after some miracle, I don't even know how it's going to go through, which is probably going to happen by mistake, because you're already in the "default" right now, you're automatically hitting everything the opposition is proposing, even if it's still on the ground, well-intentioned and for the benefit of the people. I don't know who you actually are, of course, you, what you're doing, you've now thought of putting some additional pre-election transfusion into your veins before the elections, because you're in mortal fear of losing this power after April 24th. And I hope you do. Because what you're doing with this country, with public finances, with people making fun of you, with everything you're destroying everything, all the subsystems, all the grinding and grinding, and you're really worried about people, it has to stop. And I hope this time really is April 24th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u107	I see that interest is still in the debate, so I am asking for an application. Here you go. The procedure is underway. Eight Members and Members of Parliament have been notified. Boštjan Koražija gets the word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Look. At the time when Minister Vrtovec said that it is essentially not just candy or that it is a real candy maker for those who freeze is actually shameful or humiliating because we are actually talking about the weakest in our society and the poorest. And to give candy to those who don't, you can't talk because you should basically make sure that these poor and even during the winter of even freezing old people and old women who live in these apartments and decide between the fact or the bread or the radiator, they decide a lot of times, it's that basic, it's called bread. And a lot of these older women, especially widows, are still actually frozen in these apartments. If you want to admit it or not, it's just a fact. With regard to these reminders that took place at that time or were foretold. Yes, in Maribor I think there were even 170% at the beginning of the possibility of an increase in heating. Even in Ptuj, including Jesenice, including Ljubljana, in fact after all these places, whether the mayor, when you always like to say left or right, has actually hit everywhere the weakest and poorest in our society or our municipalities. And yes, in fact, given that a directive has been or has been given from the EU or the European Union, that the matter can also be regulated or otherwise resolved, it is not incomprehensible that you come today or have come before when you were not here, but your representative and you are offering us, I will not say sand in the eyes of the truth. Since we are already talking about these embezzlements, then all of these should indeed cover the weakest and the poorest in full this difference from the amount they have previously paid, it is said that this impurity, which occurred in essence after November and December. And I don't understand why this didn't happen because we all warned you about it. Your Secretary of State, who has also repeatedly been on your behalf or on behalf of the ministry and the government as well, has been forced to promise that they will solve the matter or somehow resolve the matter, and these true solutions have never come to pass. Now with these amendments we have really worked hard in the opposition at the previous meeting of the committee and we offer you really, I will say not only one hand, but both hands, that things will try to get in or out as best as possible in terms of finding the best and even the most effective solutions to alleviate this energy crisis or for these energy vouchers or for heating. And what was interesting was what the coalition on the committee rejected our proposal from the Left, where the amendment proposed that, in fact, in order to make the addition, this solidarity allowance, the payment should be linked to household income. In fact, according to the head of the household, or in order to obtain the poorest or weakest financial power of the household, it would be the most and also actually after the person per family, and in this case a large family would receive even more of this supplement than you suggested or as you suggest. I'm not going to get involved in this, either you're eligible ministers or you're not. The answer, of course, is no. Because of this ethical aspect, moral, I think that in this case you can also publicly and exceptionally cancel these solidarity sheep, love that they belong to you by law, because then you really raise doubts about people even more, as if you actually wrote it for yourself. As it is said, unfortunately, this assistance, which is as it should be higher, should be more effective, should be earlier, it should be said, at least four to five months earlier, and you will have to face it even before the elections and even during the elections or in the campaign because people on the ground are demanding answers and we want to give them answers quite often, but we cannot, in fact, because we are not the Government and you, as the Government, are responsible for the leadership of this country and also for all the decisions you have made and which you will take, and if these decisions are unfortunately bad or have negative consequences for our citizens and citizens, then you cannot expect people to applaud you. And once again, I warn you, it's a shame that it didn't happen before, that you didn't get this solution before, or that you didn't know the problem itself, which then just accumulates like some snowball that ended up in a big snowball and unfortunately the consequences of this injustice, or even the time-consuming slow action, are already felt by those who should be the first on your lists, and those who don't have and are the poorest and also who are basically here to help them first. And I think the government is also here to basically help everyone, but in the first place they should always be those who don't have and who fight for that basic bread, in which case they even fight for a piece of warm radiator if they can afford it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Minister Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 710 thousand people, in a framework, will benefit from an energy voucher. You say, no, that's not enough. Inside these groups of people are pensioners and certainly are pensioners among the most vulnerable, and this time it is not the limit of 740 euros as was the first addition of December month, but it is a thousand euros. Another time. 67 thousand people, socially at risk, about what Mr Coražija said now, will receive them. 67,000. All those who are recipients of social assistance. These are the most vulnerable groups, I'm sure. However, the most burdened families are those who receive child support up to the sixth income class. In a way such as the opposition here today treats families, to recipients of children's documents, I expect something soon to amend the law on income relief where families have a number of children, i.e. a certain relief. And the government has assessed and here certainly, on the basis of all the initiatives that we have received, in this case, those people and those groups of people, i.e. large families that are entitled to an energy voucher. Eyewitness. The Climate Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, this House adopts legislation and we ourselves have adopted Article 129 of the Law, which defines the climate fund, paragraph 9, the financial resources to be allocated (quoted): "For measures to provide financial support to address social issues in low-income households or middle-income households." And here's the legal basis for energy vouchers to be paid out of the Climate Fund; that's the first part. Part two, the European Commission wrote the Climate Fund in its toolbox, in its toolbox. But anyway, because if you told me, no, the Climate Fund wouldn't, and you'd put it out of the budget, it'd be obvious again, yeah, from the budget, and you'd burden the taxpayers again, you'd charge them for the next generation, they'd pay hey, it's never right. [[…]] Let's ask ourselves what we need to do to make it right, because whatever we're going to do, it wouldn't be right. So if we took it from the budget, would you say you owe us – does it? However, if from the Climate Fund, which, by the way, is filled with emission vouchers that were at this time of €20 last year, today are €100, only at the expense of Teš will there be about €150 million in the Climate Fund next year or during this year, only at the expense of Teš. Yes, but you have to read legislation that you adopt in Parliament. About the green pass. As much as this government has done for the green transition, in the past, no government has made or earmarked financial resources. In the last two years, we have passed two laws in Parliament, the Renewable Energy Act, the Energy Efficiency Act, which are in favour of further changes in the direction of green transition. There was a mention of money for the railroads. This money comes from the budget, as well as from the Climate Fund, also for the purchase of new trains, for the construction of railway links along Gorenjska, now in Primorsk, Brezovica- Borovnica, Borovnica and then on. It is said that the green transition from the Climate Fund is an effective large number of money. And once again, only Teš will make a lot of money in the next year or this year at these CO2 prices. Finally, of course, CO2 price increases boosts electricity prices. It's the same again with the network. Here you can see this difference, money to businesses or money to people. We have decided on a different story — that the money from this title goes to the people. Do you know it's 31. 12. The Energy Agency issued a decision without the Ministry knowing to raise the network by 10%. Nowhere in Europe has any agency done this during this crisis, only in Slovenia. Why? Not because we want to help people, probably, but because they wanted to help companies that create every year – Maribor, Ljubljana, Celje, Gorenjska, Primorska – 50 million euros in profits, last year 52, 2019 53 million, 2018 Hold, nice profits, but forgive, in particular for the case of one of these distributors, the infrastructure is extremely poor. [[…]] I prefer to wonder where these profits go. SDH must also decide on this. And now we have two policies – a policy of high wages for these directors, a policy that we do not know where these profits are going, or we have a policy that we advocate that this money goes to people in this crisis. However, if you did what you suggest, VAT, you would say again, yes, no, and that will be too little money in the budget, you again owe us for the next generation. Once again, whatever we do, it's not right. And these companies are gonna make it. For such gains as I have said, infrastructure has been very poor in the last three years. Is that right? Look what we have in Maribor! That's what the predecessor said they can't do with the sun's trailers because it's too weak a network. But it's not this government's fault, it's not this wolf that we're giving now, it's not our fault that we're going to break the network for three months now, it's the bad business of these companies in the past. And they'll make it. Look, these are companies, owned by the majority of the state, and I believe that SDH, regardless of which government is going to be, will be very accountable to the EDPs. And also the awareness that we need a stable robust network is also present through this government. I'm particularly disappointed with the Energy Agency. At a time when the only one in Europe was not needed, we raise the price of the network. Why? Because this government was fed up in the middle of a crisis before the elections. And if the Constitutional Court judges, I cannot say what will be the decision of the Constitutional Court, or you already know that some initiatives will be made to the Constitutional Court, I will not prejudge the decision, but this institution can undoubtedly reach into the fact that people, unfortunately, would not receive financial assistance from this law, but the burden of this decision will be on the Constitutional Court. Last but not least, the toolbox also says about the unloading that costs can be deducted on the counters and other contributions. That's it. We have made this package of legislation following recommendations from the European Commission toolbox. In the beginning, one fellow Member said that it was obvious that they would receive an energy voucher or a lower rate, including those institutions that generate high profits. Yeah, there's a problem. They too will be given because the European Commission has explicitly written down that the same vats are used. And we had to do the system as far as it was concerned, but this should apply to another law for the economy, so that the same vats could be used. The government has forgotten one, the other, the third, the government has, once again, highlighted the most vulnerable, pensioners. The help was recognized — not true. First aid came to the pensioners in December. PKP-10. Pensioners under EUR 740 received assistance. Finally, the minimum wage has been aligned with the rise in prices of living needs. More apartments, Maribor, Jesenice, Domžale, let's pour ourselves some clean wine, but seriously, who here made a mistake in buying gas and what happened in Domžalé, in Jesenica? In Maribor, the mayor reacted that there would be no mistake and things were arranged. But building managers, there's been a lot of speculation around here when someone bought that gas. Many cities have not made these mistakes, but they have bought gas in time. We're only talking about four, five places in the country. About others, not the spirit, not the way they did it. But even in itself, I think that Article 5 of this Act has created a legal basis for equating gas customers. So, too, this part of us that would no longer happen in the future, do so, but unfortunately it is not going retrogradely to adopt legislation so that this would apply to the entire heating season. But once again, there was a lot of speculation about the purchase of gas and on the other hand also about who the household is and who the business customer is, because they also watched what was cheaper during a certain period of time and then went the continuity forward and now it was more expensive. But that's also what we're doing with this Cardassian law. Another important thing that I did in the introduction of the principles. These are short-term measures. Long-term measures must certainly be the first part, building energy independence not only for Slovenia, but for the EU as a whole. This has also been the focus of the Energy Ministers at the extraordinary summit convened by our Presidency. I would like here to invite a strong discussion about the new technologies that are available to us, about investing in innovation, in development, in storage, in batteries. We have excellent experts who can help us here. Another important thing is nuclear technology. We issued an energy permit for the second block of the nuclear power plant in Krskem, started all procedures. If we were to look at what is worth the elections, we would certainly not have issued it before the elections, but we did it because we are doing what is right, and I do not imagine Slovenia, an energy independent Slovenia, without the second block of the nuclear power plant in Krske. Yes, yes, renewable energy certainly, the sun is our future, someone says. But at this moment, we create less than 2% of electricity from the sun, which is our future. Less than 2%. Taking into account what the times are like, for example, in the Ljubljana Cologne between November and April, and what the solar potential is. But yes, we have to invest more. We have to invest more. And these companies also need to invest more. So long-term measures are certainly renewable energy sources. More money in renewable energy, for example. [[Incomprehensible]] Definitely. But without new technologies, especially new technologies, nuclear technology will not work in the long term. That's why I'm stressing again. Slovenia supports the European Commission's decision on the delegated act and taxonomy, because it is the right to meet energy objectives in the long term. In particular, nuclear technology is, if we compare it with gas in particular, much more so, I will not say green, but without, with a smaller CO2 footprint for sure. So, if we do not dare, invest more in innovation, not only in Slovenia, but also in the territory of the European Union as a whole, we will be very asleep on this goal and climate targets and targets for green transitions. At the same time, what this government also stresses is a green transition. Absolutely. Absolutely. But look at what happened, say, in summer in Austria because of poor wateriness. So this green transition must be considered, not too fast, to see where those real potentials are, but without new technologies, this part of the green transition will be difficult. Especially in Slovenia, when we always have a problem, where we will build something, where we will build a windmill. We only have two in Slovenia. Every single one of you, every single one of you where there's a windshield nearby, is against it. Once again, we have 2%, less than 2% of the sun. Windmills, two, we're dealing with the lower Sava, with the Mokrica hydropower plant. We don't want anything on Mura. In Austria, they have 14 or something. So we're going to have to decide whether we're going to want to have a refrigerator that works in the summer, an air conditioner, a heat pump, we're going to have to heat up the electricity, we're going to have an electric car, but on the other hand we're going to have to sacrifice something for it. Otherwise, it will be impossible to be against everything at the same time all that I've made up is impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Replica Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u112	Look, Minister, you've mixed everything up a little bit. You said we gave the pensioners December. But these things aren't all about the same things. We know that in addition to energy, food is infuriated, that inflation is rising, and that that aid was intended for some others, that it was another social measure. But you did not answer the question why you had not listened to the opposition for October, and why you did not act. We haven't heard that answer right now. As we have not heard the answer, why this will not be paid until April 15th. When actually winter is over, the smoking season is over. Next. You say that in the climate fund it is possible to pay money in this way. It's not like that. In the climate, you can eliminate energy poverty, of course, but this is a systemic, systematic measure. Which means, let's say I don't know poor households go to some resources that aren't that expensive and here the Climate Fund helps them and so on. This is about completely different things. This is not a social assistance fund. It may be partly for the eradication of energy poverty, but with systemic, systematic measures not for one-off intervention as we are dealing with in this case. Don't fool around. The fact is that the Climate Fund is dedicated to co-financing for mitigation and adaptation to the effects of climate change and to the payment of a solidarity allowance cannot be paid from this title at home. And it's not clear why it would be. After all, you have parked, I think, a billion and half 500 million dollars in the state budget to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic crisis and look at this energy crisis and these food prices that fly into the sky are partly due to the epidemic crisis. This is all related to each other these things are not completely separate, so it would be logical to take this from the budget. I would really like to ask for answers to two key questions: why haven't you responded as early as October when we warned you why you overstepped the opposition's proposal in January, which could be improved together, because it wasn't optimal, and why didn't you pay up until April 15th and not before when people who really need it don't need ministers because you have enough money?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u113	All those who report to the replica would kindly request that you stick to the interferences set out in the Rules of Procedure for the replica, if you do so, then forward to the debate and it will be much easier for everything. So this question why the minister didn't answer doesn't say you weren't misunderstood. It's needed by the state, colleague. Boštjan Koražija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u114	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u115	You're giving up. Alenka Bratusek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u116	Thank you. If the Minister would listen to us, we would not now hear a lecture on Slovenian energy, but we would hear the answers to specific questions. The Constitutional Opinion was announced by small shareholders on the Committee. Not just anyone like the minister is insinuating something from small shareholders. It seems a serious threat is that this law will go to the Constitutional Court, that it will be detained and that people will not get anything. Why? Because you don't want to hear it. I agree with the minister on the unnecessary rise in these difficult times of the network, but I believe the Minister has already heard of the Price Control Act, where he could define this should not be raised. Not here in this chair crying about what happened to him because someone wants to tease the government. Come on. These are concrete measures that the Minister could have taken if I did not have to say so. You give money to people, oh oh. People are going to pay hard for all of this. They will receive €150 and some have increased – themselves – by €200 per month. So in three months of winter plus 600 euros, you'll give them 150 euros. You, not you, people will give them because what is in the budget and even if the climate fund is not yours, it is from the country or people. The only company that announced that it would not raise the price by June and that it had been gone for four months without administration. Do you not know whether you are so incompetent that within four months you cannot provide the largest or the company that provides the cheapest energy to the Slovenians? No, you've decided that old leadership isn't good. Okay, so you have this right, but come on, then name a new one. Four months to leave this company unattended, and then you knock on each other's chests, and we have those who give electricity to the Slovenians at a price. Are you kidding? You're making fun of people. And 106 million, however you turn, you've taken the green future. Green future. You've got 400 million, 412 or 418 million for armor, but you don't have 100 million from the budget for those candy you want to split. And you've made up your mind. I also said on the committee, yes, the European Commission made such a recommendation. “Maybe,” she said, “let's let it go,” but Slovenia could say “No. The money that has been raised in the climate fund will be earmarked for the green future." You're the one who made a different choice. And don't point your finger at anyone. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u117	Colleague Alenka Bratusek, your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u118	To anyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u119	Time's up for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u120	If [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u121	Time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u122	And I didn't hear any noise.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u123	No, no. He's gone. Because it's been so long [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u124	In short, there is no answer to the question why not before April 15. Why isn't he here? Because you just don't have it. And we found out why it wasn't until April 15th. And if not.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u125	Thank you very much, please. I would ask you, too, to apply for the debate next time because it wasn't a replica. The next one with a word is Edward Paulic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u126	Thank you, President, for your word. Now I will essentially tie myself up in this debate to the reply of the minister, who in some way has shown us that in the opposition we are not for the pensioners to receive these supplements. And by doing so, he is misleading the entire Slovenian public in some way. The fact is, we're in the opposition for the extras, but in a fair way. And what my predecessors have warned about, I'll say, is illogicality in this law, injustice. I will now give one example to make it more clear to the Slovenian public. If there are two pensioners living in a joint household, each has a pension of 900 euros, a total of 1,800 euros, they will receive 300 euros in allowances. If one pensioner lives alone in a household and has a pension of 1,000 euros, he does not receive an allowance. If a living family rents an apartment, they rent an apartment, it has an income of 2,000 euros a month, it doesn't get an allowance. We are talking about the fact that the measures in some way are unfair. Another case like this is when I'm really sorry that on the board, when we amended this case in LMSH, the coalition didn't support it. Ministers with four or more children receive another special supplement. Whether they are eligible financially or not, the fact is, ministers with four or more children get an allowance, foster parents with four or more foster parents don't get one. I understand this in a way that foster parents, foster families, are not equal to the families of ministers. I can't think of anything else. And I am very sorry, despite the fact that the government representative has also said that this amendment is meaningful and logical, but the coalition has not supported it. I would like to ask the Minister why you did not correct the title in Article 2, which speaks of a solidarity allowance to address the effects of energy poverty. I mean, if 150 euros is the amount by which this minister will eliminate energy poverty, then I propose him as a finance minister because he does miracles. 150 euros not intended to alleviate energy poverty, and those 150 euros will be, I will say unfairly distributed. The minister also talked about the toolbox. Now the fact is, 6 months will expire from when this toolbox was adopted at European Commission level until the aid is paid. And I looked at this document again. The fact is that the reduction or exemption of the payment of the network for 3 months, as you suggest, is not part of the toolbox. And I'm afraid that the small shareholders who predict constitutional judgment here are quite right. And it would be a shame that at the end of the day the marriage falls due to things that are not in line or potentially, I will say, they are not in line with European rules. So I join my opposition colleagues who had quite a few questions for the minister. Now, if I see it correctly, there was no ministry representative in my debate, so I hope he listened somewhere in the guest room and will answer these questions. Thank you, President, for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A number of interesting debates have already been on this topic today on energy vouchers and all other measures that will help people and the economy and, of course, agriculture, Slovenia, which is of course essential. Now, somehow I would also like to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already previously, with various anti-korona measures, helped people to prepare many aid measures, both for people and the economy, that people and businesses are easier to come through, even now, at the moment that energy prices have also gone up, but these prices have not gone up here, as they try to show by the opposition only in Slovenia, but they have gone up all over Europe or the world, now I am somehow listening here, and if I draw from these discussions I know, it seems that somehow I would like to prove to people that they are only in Slovenia, but it is not, it is all over the world. This is a global issue, a global problem. And I can say that few countries in Europe or in the world have taken it as seriously as Slovenia has done here, with so many aids in different forms. We know that we are in fact in the first place and also all the praises that come from Europe, we are, Slovenia is commended that it has acted effectively during the epidemic and has also helped people that they have also been on this present treasure, which, of course, is not the way you have shown it or you want to show it that people are better prepared for the economy. Now, you keep stressing the poor and so on. Of course, it must be said, and you are also aware of it, and people are aware, people are aware that you have created the poor in fact. Just the ones that usually fill your mouth. You have created the left governments of poverty, of course, but now we need to keep talking about the poor, about energy poverty and so on. You created energy poverty yourself. You haven't done the right thing in time, nor have you done the right thing, and of course, now that this darling has come, the same as in health care, because, at the time of the epidemic, we would say, some kind of stress test as they do in banks, stress tests, we have experienced a stressful test both in health care, because of the epidemic and also in the field of energy and the willingness of people and the economy to induce, we have experienced a stressful test, and we see what kind of skeletons are flying out of the closet, what was the situation, how it was taking care of this area so far, and now you are expecting and you want to prove to people that this government, despite the epidemic that could be dealing with the epidemic, very seriously, every day, after 24 hours a day, that it could solve all things in a year and a half or two years, everything that was brought forward. Yeah, that's not how it works, is it, even though a lot of things have already been fixed, changed, gone for the better, but in a year and a half or two, you can't get all the things you've messed up in the right direction. I'm sorry. And you can talk about it so much. And it was also said when the sweetheart began to prepare a comprehensive solution. And this comprehensive solution to this law is here before us. And of course, if we have a sense of people and the economy and agriculture, we will also support these measures. Not that we're going to go here now with some politics, fantasizing and philosophizing about anything. Things need to be put under the roof as soon as possible and supported. And here to listen to these discussions, you've been robbed, ministers, big families will get the extras. I mean, what level are you getting yourself into? On what level? I mean, embarrassing to the end. You're getting into families, you're getting into kids. That's the bottom of the floor. But it's important whose child it is or whose family it is. Today, Minister, there is no tomorrow. However, in order to make sure that some Members will also receive or receive benefits from the shepherds and so on and enjoy them, I do not hear about them. Not one of you who is now arguing that ministers will receive an allowance for, that is, an energy voucher, do not say that you have returned or that you have not spent it. That's what I want to hear. So I mean, it's really beneath every level. And about Christian mercy, about making fun, and pre-election transfusions, I don't know what. I mean, it's so important when we talk about people who need help, about an economy that needs help. We're listening to this nebulosis here. Fortunately, people are also monitoring this and will reward these things when the time comes. Well, there's been a lot of previous aid. That's huge. And also pensions and salaries are rising, and this is persistent, and also because of a well-functioning economy, which has also received considerable assistance from a country that has never before. Never before, because you know where you put your money. To the banks. To the tycoons. To different mobs and so on. paying off millions to your friends. Now money goes to people and the economy. And the general situation in Slovenia is improving, so that people and the economy will not now suffer so great these, I would say, consequences due to expensiveness. Now, as far as the energy agency is concerned, there have been so many comments about the network that they will no longer be able to survive, to get on their knees and so on. Here I think it is necessary to make clear what state the electricity system is in in certain areas. Despite the fact that people and the economy have paid regularly all the nets that are not low, all the nets have been paid regularly, and I think that when there is a crisis, so that the energy company can say, but if you have paid everything so far, we have not done to you what we should, we have not arranged for you networks as we should be, and then we will go to the agency now, respected people, citizens and citizens, a little bit into our hands, and we will do these three months when we do not get the grids paid, and we will go a little further. And here I think there could be a little bit more, a little more tolerance and even a little bit more against people at the agency. And here's where I think I'm gonna have to take a little peek at where the money went. If we look at these networks when we see how it is with a photovoltaic, how it is with solar power plants, when people connect, they say electric distribution companies, or at the agency they say. Yeah, well, we don't have enough network to hook it up. We don't. There's a young family who want to build a house in Šmartnem near Lithia. Yeah, he doesn't get consent because he's a shifter. You can't get it, I'm sorry, let's set up some sun or, I don't know, buy yourself some, so buy yourself some self-sustainment, I don't know, buy yourself some gas and buy yourself some gas and then we'll get some electricity. Yeah, it's not, it's not a good energy network. Please. We have rural tourism up on a hill without electricity, which we would like to expand and continue, in Dragoška, they have no electricity. I've said this a hundred times in here, and it hasn't moved a foot. It is said that things are not what they should be. Now to say that they will fail, but because of networks that people will not have to pay for the economy for three months, this is a disaster. If we were to reduce VAT on all this measure, of course, we would again be helping myself, especially Members, but I don't know who else you normally have. Why would a reduction in VAT help all those who might not be in need at this time? It must also be said that the promotions vary greatly across countries, ranging from one municipality to another, and this was highly dependent on the willingness of the municipalities or their municipal companies, for example, in the area of heating, as was the case with the purchase of energy. Some congregations have tried hard, or the administrators have made an effort to do things in time, as is necessary, and the prices have not simply gone up, but it is shameful that the network has gone up by the Energy Agency. I mean, it's a disaster, and in these difficult times, even that's what they wanted, and so the grids come to mind, you go up the grid for no reason. So some congregations have been well prepared, and some have not, and there are many different speculators here too. Of course, prices would have raised the country nicely and it was supposed to cover all of this. Where can this go? That's what you've done in the past, and you've covered things like this. That's speculation. You can't just raise the price unjustifiably, but you can't expect the state to cover your unjustifiable price rises indefinitely, for example, that's not how it works. You just have to do something real here. It has also been nice to determine which groups of people will receive this help that is a lot of people, huge and also clear by law to whom it belongs. Here to make some selections now we can talk here as well as the Member before me has found some cases we can go here on a case-by-case basis. No case is the same. Here we can now list various combinations of pensions, supplements, child support, social assistance, minimum wages for example we can combine and merge, but we are not here any service I don't know about social work centres, so that we will now deal specifically with each case or that the law will be written for every such special case. There can't be any special law. Here we need to look at the solution comprehensively and somehow try to capture all those who are in need and are all covered by this law. As with all the measures taken so far, we can say all Slovenians and Slovenians, so all the people of all those economies or agriculture and so on, who needed help. Here to say that no such aid was kindly said a little sad. That's it. If you are not in favour of helping people who are poor, socially vulnerable, businesses and so on, then make it clear that we are not in favour of helping them not to wrap themselves in cellophanes. I am in favour of helping them, and that is why I am also in favour of confirming this law and voting with great pleasure for this law, for help, for mitigating the effects of energy so expensive. I'll support it with great joy. Now, listen here on the one hand to how much money the country owes it to help who will pay it all back despite the fact that, if it already owes it to negative interest rates, what you haven't done in the past, but they were high interest rates, and this is actually the problem of who will return what you did, and the billions that you put in the banks, and the tycoon with the debt write-offs, that is the problem, and here you would be able to talk and ask, and I believe that you have a legitimate fear. Because this government has committed itself to people, to the economy, to agriculture, to a better position, to greater prosperity, this, therefore, does not have to be burdened by anyone. So, from the climate fund, we also heard the issues right away, and you stole from us a green future, etc. I mean, I don't know. If you're listening sometimes. It also seems very important to me that what the Minister has also said is that as far as the green transition is concerned is going on very carefully, gradually, and that we are also paying attention to what we are doing, and we also know that with some reckless measures, there can also be a lot of caution here, that is to say, this energy gem is also a part of the consequence of this, and therefore there is a great deal of caution. And that's all. When we simply do not come to Slovenia to make real use of renewable energy sources, because we were full of mouths here, even by the KUL opposition or coalition, or whatever else, we do not use enough and wind energy or water energy here. Now you have again on the Left I hear around you already have a variety of dedications and conversational dinners about how harmful it is to work hydropower plants. I mean, wind power plants don't, nuclear power plants don't, photovoltaics, when people do it, the network doesn't, allows it to be used as necessary. Yeah, how are we gonna use all the electrical appliances and fill the electric cars if we don't have enough capacity? So that I am once again truly glad that this law is comprehensive, that is, a comprehensive solution to help, to mitigate the consequences of the abuse, to help people and the economy, to help agriculture, to be ready, and that we will also confirm it in the National Assembly and go with all the help of people and the economy, with this help, to prevent people from feeling the energy value that has happened, and that, hopefully, even in the short term, it will end with this, as with the epidemic, and we will be able to work again normally and normally. Only this is really one such great desire, and of course this law, the amendments of the opposition, which I have read, which are proposed, but I will not support, and I will support the amendment of the coalition, which is further prepared and, of course, at the same time, the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, Natasha the Sukich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u130	Thank you. Ambassador, you've been so busy with Levica that I must, of course, react. Among other things, the fact that we did not create in the past poverty or energy poverty that you mentioned in Levica. This has created all past governments, left and right, which have implemented their grave neoliberal policies and, of course, allowed more and more citizens and citizens to sink to poverty. That's one answer to your execution when you just attacked us. Then you said it like we expect you to save everything in two years. No, we do not expect, but we expect that when such a situation occurs, you will act in a timely manner and that is why we invited you to this party last October, when it was clear that the prices of energy in global markets are flying to the sky and you did not listen, nor did you support any well-intentioned amendment of ours. But you say in the same breath that we don't want to lie to the poor. We have much more to do and especially to do this in a socially fair way and to give it to those who need it, but not, forgive the ministers and Members, I don't know how many children we don't need right now, because we have enough good income, I'm very sorry. And you can't compare our situation with those who actually have nothing. That's all I wanted to say when you were moralized and wised up here. Since it is obviously allowed to discuss the energy future, but the Member has gone back to Levico, look, you have not yet read our new programme. Maybe it's a problem who says we're anti-nuclear. We didn't say that. But we may be against knowing in advance that Westinghouse is doing this and not looking at options that may be cheaper. Have you thought about that? You're not. So please don't stumble into what Left said and what she'll say, because when you see the program then you come by, okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Look, I warned you before to stick to replicas, not debates. Also [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Look, it's a broader debate, but the amendment is very concrete. And those of you who have already spoken about the amendment spoke very little, except for Alenka Bratušek [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] . You, too, ma'am, were the first to speak to Alenka Bratušek. You weren't talking about the amendment either. You were talking about anything. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Look, don't argue with me. Don't argue! I've warned you for the second time that you speak if the amendment is an amendment, otherwise apply to the debate. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Procedurally, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u132	Look, presidents, with all due respect, please, if you are so consistent, it is only right that you are consistent, but be consistent with everyone. You have allowed the MP to even discuss what Levic represents as an energy concept for the future. And this has nothing to do with today's law, not about this amendment, not about anything, but you left. [[…]] And when I answer that question, you remind me. Please, come on, because I understand you want us to stick to the subject, but let's put this into effect for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I said earlier that a broader debate had been left in the introduction. And I didn't touch that part. But if you replicate where the provision is as it is, then replicate. However, if you want to discuss yourself, you can also continue to apply for the debate, there are no reservations and obstacles. Edward Paulich has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u134	Yes, of course I have a replica of my colleague Doblekar, who really didn't understand anything about my debate. He told us that we were not to help the poor and to say it out loud. The truth is the other way around. We are in favour of helping the poor, but not all on average, including ministers, who will be excused for the new supplement. Riddled with all logic. And my debate is that if the minister gets the supplement, he's called a minister who has four or more children or anyone else, why don't they get this supplement to a foster family that has the same number of children. Riddled with every logic. And I expected one of the coalition Members to explain this to us, to argue, but that is simply not an argument, so Members are discussing it the way they are discussing it. Of course, there is a solution to how to do this in a better, more transparent way. One very simple solution I have mentioned is to tie aid to household income. I mentioned in the debate earlier three different groups, which are in a comparable situation, some will get help, some not. And that fellow Doblekar didn't understand. But it is simply necessary to find a way and for four months there was enough time to find a way that will be fair and that will solve the problems of those who need help to the greatest extent. I agree that there is no ideal model, but certainly a model like this is not optimal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I think it's important, so I'm going to say that this amendment, which it is, I'm not going to support, but because there was a little wider debate, of course I'm going to try to point out a few things in a few minutes. [[Incomprehensible]] I ask you, fellow Members and Members, not to waste time attacking each other, but to help people in distress – let us help. And the worst thing that hurts me is that the opposition members of the opposition are two-faced. On the one hand, they say that it is necessary to help people, and on the other hand, they say that they will not confirm the law. I think that's double-crossing. I didn't mention any customers, so, every customer, the one who presented her position, knows what she said, probably stands behind those words, right? In addition, look, a hundred and once today I've heard from those who make you righteous, honest, and so forth, that this is, this law, the sharing of these pre-election candy. My dear friends, I said before, we're all aware that people need help. We can't do this after the election. Either way, you're throwing us half-naked that we're late with this marriage, and I don't know what else to do and now, because by chance, the elections before that, we shouldn't be helping people. Please, dear opposition parties, don't do this. Don't do this. We're gonna help people with this marriage. We've made up our minds, this government and this coalition. All the opposition parties, who will support this law, of course have an absolute right to their opinions, to their views, I will be very happy to see at the end of the vote who supported the law and who did not. But people need a solution. And dear colleagues, we will help with this law, and this law is addressed to 710 thousand people. And I'm asking you not to say that he's not referring to vulnerable groups. It addresses virtually all vulnerable groups, especially these pensioners with very low pensions, then the disabled, these with invalid pensions and so on and so on. And in the main solutions to this law, what does it say under point 1? You know what it says? The bill adopts measures to mitigate the consequences and impact of high energy prices in the field of energy, social protection and public rights. Now let's just say that one of you doesn't support it. Then we start talking about duality and those who don't support this marriage will be the first one to tell you how double-faced you are, how you try to manipulate. In fact, you appear to be someone who wants to help people, and on the other hand, when the real situation comes to the table, all of a sudden, for such and other reasons, you object to solutions that are important to people. I've talked to a lot of people myself, they've shown me the bills, I've seen that there's madness where the bills fly, and there's really a lot of people who can't pay for it, because if they pay the bill, the question is if they can survive and we want to help with this law. We have also helped when the government adopted PKP 10 and all others, if we look back, laws where we have always helped people with such and different approaches. And we are not doing anything else with this law, as we continue to do to help people survive from month to month, and that is why, dear opposition parties, I call you once again, on behalf of Slovenian people, those who have difficulty supporting this law – support this law – 710 thousand people are referring to this law. Please. And when there's a vote, we'll see if you keep your dick in your pocket or if it's about people. There's one word. You can't live off words. People need action. And that's what it's all about. It's an act. When the months, as soon as the matter is realized, are so far away, they will get the money on their account. It's an act. And then people can pay those bills easier, easier. It's easier to pay those bills. That's our job. The task of all of us sitting in this House no matter what political sides we are on and what political colours we are. And when I listened today to Mr Sukič's entire debate, the introductory debate. Look, please, the one you listened to in her last speech when she left Parliament, because it doesn't matter for any reason, she said a lot, a lot of things in her introductory discussion that I think are unacceptable. Attack. From one to the other. Go read what your fellow Member said in the introduction. And then you'll see what the real truth is. So I ask you to spend as little time as possible attacking each other as possible, but to support this law together as quickly as possible and the law will enter into force as possible. And then today, some of the opposition parties are already squandering to see this marriage go to constitutional review. So you have all the data, from where you know more than you do, and the law is not yet passed, and you are already smooching by not letting God give the pensioners, these vulnerable groups, to get the money in time. That's what you're doing. I mean, there's got to be something really wrong with you. So you'll do anything to keep people from getting the money. But I guarantee you they'll get it. At least this government and coalition will do their work with dignity, responsibility and in the interest of our people. Those who need help. But our job, as politicians, is to adopt solutions that will be written on the skin of these people. And this marriage is one of the laws that, as I said, refers to 710 thousand people who will be very happy with this money because definitely, when I talked to them, they showed me and I realized that they can't practically come from a month to a month. And there's something else about the grid. And these poor electric companies. I come alone from the congregation of Šentilj, from my Styria. I'll say, a year and a half, two, I had to stand up, tops, even post it on Facebook when my friends were hanging from wires. People invited me, Marian, the company is state-owned, what you're doing. And until I saved, absolutely, that pressure, nothing moved. And then they did it in an extreme situation, and in fact, you heard what the minister said today. In fact, they lie on 50 million euros in profits. I mean, what is it, and who has led to this moment of business? [[…]] This state, most of the electricity. You all know that. But I have no intention of talking about it today. This is about a solution that is urgently needed, and we need to help people. That's our primary assignment. And that is why, my dear colleagues, I will not speak to you again today, in this law, I ask you to come together, but at least, look, when it is difficult, let us show our dignity and vote to help people, not to talk a lot, but to do nothing or to do any harm. Of course, I will support this marriage, I will not support the amendment, I will also support our ready amendment, and I look forward to this marriage to be brought to life as soon as possible, and that this money will be in the accounts of those people who need it bloodyly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u138	Thank you very much, very good-bye. I agree, people need actions, not words. And deceiving 700 000 citizens 7 days before the elections to receive financial assistance knowing that the firms he is throbbing and the owners he is throbbing have announced disputes, and that the unconstitutional and illegality of procedures has also been brought to our attention by an independent regulator is simply a misappropriation. We have therefore proposed, instead, that instead of network interventions for a period of three months, VAT be abolished so that the rate from 22 should be reduced to 0% and this is a matter within the jurisdiction of the State and is in line with European legislation. We would also like these measures to be taken earlier in the SAB to be pointed out on several occasions and to propose concrete solutions also with the possibility of exploiting unused energy vouchers. I'm afraid that didn't happen. We also agree that someone will give it in due time twice. Given that the Government is conscious of this proposal to avoid helping people, of course, we cannot support it. However, I would expect the Government to obtain information from both GEN and Holding Slovenian Power Plants via SDH from both energy companies when the contracts with electricity suppliers expire and in what time period can they start to supply domestic energy to Slovenian customers at a production price without the margin of duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, to citizens and citizens, if I may, we are all under a great financial burden of energy. Thank God the social state is working very effectively with us and citizens who have found you or your families in distress and are hard to pay the costs for energy users we have a social assistance system in place in the country. We have a mechanism in place for an emergency social assistance system. In the event of an occurrence from regular costs and we are faced with just this case, such as extremely high costs, due to energy users who may cause material harm, an individual or family at the Centre for Social Work may apply for exceptional financial social assistance. Social work centres even advise that. Those with low incomes and increased energy and food prices may also apply for exceptional financial social assistance. That the system works prove the numbers. From September to January this year, 27 thousand 600 households received such assistance. 27 thousand 600 households in September, October, November, December, January 5th. What is the total amount of this extraordinary financial social assistance? The answer is the 12 million euro system works, so all of you who have these problems, and I know that it is a lot to call you, and I invite you to come to the nearest centre for social work and you will get help. On average, the monthly amount of this aid is EUR 370. That is what I wanted to say to all those who have difficulty financing this unreasonable rise in energy, as well as to those Members and Members who may not know or do not want to know. While Members of New Slovenia will, of course, unanimously support this Emergency Action Act to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices, let us recall that the first tranche of financial assistance has already been adopted in this National Assembly in the CAP10. We've already forgotten that. I regret that the debate went really low for a moment. Colleagues and colleagues, our political companions and opponents, we respect you, but, as we say, at times the debate was not respectful. If you're predicting a reduction in wages when you take power, if you're predicting an increase in taxes when you take power, now I see you're also predicting an attack on large families. Yeah. I explicitly repeat, you're predicting an attack on large families. And that's worrying. A little over 5,000 large families. I hope that's what these families have heard in the last few days. So you're predicting the persecution of large families. I've also heard that persecution is predicted. That's not the darkness, but that's what I heard. That's what I heard. The one who is now growling, reading a magnetogram or listening to a recording of his own statement. How did the matter start with the rise in energy prices? It was October 21st and 22nd, when the European Council took place and discussed energy prices. And the European Council has just addressed the high rise in energy prices and examined the consequences of rising prices for citizens and citizens and businesses, especially for our vulnerable citizens and citizens, and small and medium-sized enterprises that are trying to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Some of them haven't recovered yet. They've already hit high energy costs. A set of tools or so on. The toolbox, as said by Minister Jernej Vrtovec, presented by the Commission in its Communication on coping with rising energy prices, contains useful measures both in the short and the long term. And these solutions, which we have harmonised in the coalition, actually take into account the elements of a set of measures or mitigation tools, or mitigation tools, due to the impact of high energy prices. And so, yes, four months ago, the European Council called on the Commission, with the help of the European Securities and Markets Authority, to examine the functioning of the gas and electricity market and the EU market for emissions trading. And so on, I don't mention everything. The European Council called on the Commission and the Council to consider, as soon as possible, medium- and long-term measures that would contribute to energy at an affordable price for households and businesses, increase the resilience of the EU energy system and the internal energy market, ensure safe supply and support the transition to climate neutrality, taking into account the diversity and specificities of the situation in each Member State. And three or four days after that, the President-in-Office of the European Union, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, here, called. the energy summit, where they have made it even more precise that the tools available for what has been given to the Member States for action are available. Virtually all Member States are helping people and the economy in a very similar way through very similar concepts. Of course, I appreciate the opposition's efforts to try with some other concepts, such as this amendment to Article 4, which would abolish value added tax. Of course, there are no calculations here as to what financial effects would be, so it is probably significantly lower over the thumb. The network. Disengage the networks was very well received during the epidemic, when people actually felt at the polls specifically lower amounts and we are aware of what this means for electricity companies. We also know what their business results were, but we also know what the state of the electricity system or the network in the country is. I come from eastern Slovenia where citizens wanted to be self-sustaining in such a way as to install solar power plants on their roofs. No, no, there's no way, more than 4 thousand applications were waiting for one of the power distributors because the simple network is obvious, so at least it looks like a lay-down, I'm not qualified enough to do that. And now it's this government's fault, but no, that's what it looks like, the on-call guilty party. Okay. I'm not going to go into history who and when he ran some power company or power distribution company, it's not a dark day now. At the time of this amendment, of course, the proposer cannot out of her own skin, I can say, European skin, has immediately gone to the point that this Government has entrusted everyone, for what, 20,000 euros. That's amazing. What a fantastic public debt demagogy. It's no wonder we sometimes hear that we've reduced our pension by 25,000 percent. That's what we're listening to. If we speak, if I may, Mr Vice-President, only half a minute as to the evolution of the country's debt sector. Let's be precise here and look at the tables, according to the ESA 2010 methodology, just this methodology and no other methodology, we can talk. And let's not do the tables ourselves, but let's see, let's borrow tables, it's all done, Eurostat works for us, SURS, the European Commission, UMAR, etc. Year 2021. This is last year. Country debt 77.3% of GDP. At the time of the proposed amendment, Mrs Lidija Hren, RTV Slovenia, said, a legend, a journalistic one, which was 80.3% of GDP in 2014. When we left the government in 2008, Dr. Bayuk, Minister of Finance, 21.8% of GDP. This is a movement of the debt sector of the state. The next year's projection is to get to 77%, 2023, 76%, 2024, below 75%, if of course we are in power, if you are, the tables will be, I'm sure, slightly different. And you won't believe it, you won't believe it, you won't believe it, you won't believe it, but foreign agencies are giving us credit ratings, very good and owners are investing their assets in Slovenia's brand and even paying us. Of course I mean negative interest rates. And even when we are talking so much about sustainable, etc., last year the Republic of Slovenia first issued 10-year-old euro bonds or provided dedicated sustainable funding under the criteria of green and social expenditure, a budget of €1 billion, which contributes to strengthening long-term potential GDP growth. So it's okay to have different concepts of helping people. In the coalition, we've just agreed on a table like this, and of course we'll support it as well. However, we will not support the amendment to Article 4. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Alenka Bratsek's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u142	Mr Horvat, the fact is that Slovenia is now in debt more than ever, 40 billion. And we're gonna have to pay back $40 billion. The most expensive debt in the history of our country was made by Janez Janša in early January 2013, and the most expensive one was then necessary. I don't argue with that. Just as we're in charge today, we've never been in charge before. And all of this will have to be returned. The return of €40 billion will be necessary. We're gonna give it all back. As for the reduction of pensions, you are well aware that in 2012 you reduced the pension by 25% to 25 000 pensioners, of course. But that's what you did in 2012. It's a fact, you want, you don't want, you admit, you don't admit. The ZUJF you accepted just hit the pensioners like that. And even though we were just before the bankruptcy in 2013, because you left such a dissipation behind, we returned these pensioners, which is the only right thing. And I will repeat once again that there will be no doubt that my colleague will understand or hear me correctly, 25 000 pensioners and pensioners have been reduced by 25%. I think it's clear and understandable and sad that it even happened. And this is the only time in the history of our Slovenia that this has been done. Whoever made up the government at the time is clear to us, and Desus was also part of that victorious coalition that hit the pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I suggest that, if only possible, at least those who will run again speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Those you will not need, but those you will run for office, please adhere to the Rules of Procedure in the debates and amendments. Come on, Siter. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. One of the good things about being more at the end of the discussion is that you can either summarize a matter or answer anything that has been heard so far from the other side. I would first respond to one thing, obviously, that has nothing to do with the agenda item, but it has been spoken out and should be addressed. We have heard a great deal from that side, especially from this side of the Party of Levi, about the destruction of the Slovenian Army, but I don't know what I'm hearing for the first time about the persecution of Christians or the extermination of Christians today. And it made me laugh a little bit. I see that some representative, a representative of the government's kind, has made that laugh. But the lie you say a few times quickly becomes the truth, so I, Mr. Horvath, suggest that you are so, with a little more spine, that if you lie, if you are already on behalf of some Christian morality, you have a Christian faith in the name of at least these basic ten commandments of God, which are so easy not to break the pillar of Christian tradition, and you do not give false testimony, that you will not then publicly crown God's name and at the same time, say as many as two commandments of God, but you have committed a disgrace to the teaching of Jesus, which I, as a non-Christian, believe is completely rich and that mankind can truly have something of it. Okay, so much for the holy letter. Thank you for your tolerance, Vice President, I will not preach, a descendant of the Communist revolutionaries, the Gospel of the National Assembly. Of course, on the subject on the agenda, I would say this. I agree with Mr Pojbič, when he says, we are not wasting time, but let's let things be resolved now, immediately and as soon as possible. Yeah, buddy Pojbich and everyone else. We came to the National Assembly with this same mantra in October and proposed a solution that would put a particularly low financial burden on poor households at a time when it was known, because this was on a global scale preparing for the energy crisis to come. That the energy will rise, that the heating will rise and that this will hit the most proportionate budgets of financial, materially weaker families or households. October. October, November, December, January, February, it will now be March, and by April. For six months, people will be waiting for a solution that they could get in the middle of or at the end of October before the worst cold ever came. And now, of course, the government hasn't responded to that, traditionally. But in his manner, here I have been critical for two years, coming with ineffective, and especially with late measures for such a thing. Inefficient, because it flat-rately gives 150 euros to those who need it, to those who do not need it, and just a little over the thumb, as we have seen with those students with pension supplements and so on. But apparently, it's not too late for half a year to pick up the election points, because it's April, but it's seasonal, but the season is completely, completely delayed and people are cold, cold at the moment. Now, 700,000 people, and Mr. Horvat has served some other conclusions on how it will, statistics, how it will help, okay, this will all be nice. But what I would suggest to the representatives of the government or the architects of these measures is that they go to the field and see how people live on the rise, the rise of the stakes, so on the ground, at home. Places in the Red Cross area exhibits are always open to volunteers. I have personally taken this opportunity and regularly participate in the registration of applicants in the aid register, with citizens and citizens having to bring in a role, and to present a copy of either the payment sheet or the PSIZ, i.e. the amount of the pension. That, my dear fellows and colleagues, this last document is a cold shower. 280 euros for the pensioner and 700 euros for any employee or worker in a factory. Now, we have here six months continuously or, come on, I'm going to be nice, at least four months continuously increased, increased positions by 80, by 100 euros. At the end of the season, these people will be berserked by an increase in energy prices of between €500 and €700. You know what 700 euros is in the family budget of someone living on a minimum wage? One annual salary. 150 euros, obtained in a suspicious way, and I will explain why, in an inappropriate way, nothing is fixed here. There is only one, one such patch or, as the minister said, a bomber before the end, so before the end of the term, to address the next elections. So late and ineffective. Now, the climate fund. We have already spoken about this today, and it pains me in particular, because I have noticed in many Members such a brutal lack of knowledge of climate issues that it is a shame that so far, in at least four years, we have consistently stressed the importance of climate policies, and we have not been educated at least roughly. You wouldn't need an elaborate A4 pair of indents to read. Look, the climate crisis, the climate crisis, it's not just the climate crisis. When we talk about addressing the climate crisis, we are talking about, not necessarily the green transition, we are talking about a fair transition and what this term is, a fair transition. A fair transition means, okay, now we're in a society driven by Co2 driven by the environment of dangerous industries, the environmentally dangerous industry, economy and so on and now we need to move from this to something that will not pollute the environment, that will ensure a transition that will ensure the survival of the planet and people, and how will we do this so that the economy will not fail, that people will not be impoverished, that they will not be over Kolpo to crowds of climate refugees and they will be there, I don't know, Hojs, with police units "tribal" back to the south, how will we do it so that we won't be poor as a society? This is a fair transition and translated into numbers represents a climate fund. And now, if we weaken this climate fund and halve it, then we can forget about any progressive policies, any thought of surviving as a society. Then, we throw the climate fund into our hands, that is, people who are financially poor and they have no choice but to resort to energy that is cheaper, and these are fossil fuels. So we are now sending the climate fund to purchase fossil fuels. What's the logic here? What are the objectives of the Paris Agreement here? We are deepening the social crisis or, deepening the government, deepening the environmental crisis, but you wave with the flag of a family policy, but if you have four children, it is small, but it is a little better, but you are a little bit better. So, my criticism here is loud, the architects of this measure. I welcome, of course, because we have also proposed such a solution, but if the country, as we have heard today, has 412 million from the budget to be thrown out by an American army, this is actually what will happen to our Boxer armored men, but it does not find hundreds of millions, as far as this measure is supposed to alleviate social distress, then I think as a society we have imported, then I think this government is on the line of management [[?]] epidemics and management [[?]] companies have started and I look forward to a "reset" on 24 April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Minister Jernej Vrtovec asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, on the last page. To deepen the environmental crisis and to work essentially with this hole in the climate. Once again, the rise in the price of emission vouchers also fills the climate fund more fully, and it is only right that you know that last January's emission coupon was around €20, today it is about €100. Only next year will around 150 million euros of money come into the TEC climate fund, only from TES. As much as this government has done for the green transition, including the adoption of legislation in this House, no government has done so far. And another important thing, because, Mr Member, it comes from the coal region. We have done a lot in this region, too, in this mandate. Special law, we have further adopted the extension of the law on the closure of the Trbovlje – Hrastnik Mine, in order to build a road to the homes of pensioners, so that the degraded areas of this part can remain. Why is it that, in the 20 years since we've been closing this mine, it hasn't, not me, as minister, been asking questions, but we're solving the current situation. This marriage was supported by you, too. And very strong support for this law has also been given by the local community with both mayors. There's one more important thing. This government, when fossil fuels are spoken, but under this government, we have adopted an important strategy, namely the carbon strategy from the year 2033. In the past, two years ago, it was just a conversation. And now you're telling us we're not for the Green Passage. Yeah, well, that's the wrong way around. Why didn't you do it when the supercollective was three years ago? I believe that there is also a political pool in these coal regions of a particular group of elective bodies, and that is very sensitive, but there is also a need to take precautions, not only to speak that are not related to politics. In this case, this government has done this for the green transition, so the way out of coal is 2033. By paying attention, Slovenia has a share of 28% of coal in the energy mix, the largest share in the European Union. And it's kind of an ambitious 2033. And the challenge, of course, is how to replace this, this energy mix. That's why the power permit for the second block of a nuclear power plant. [[Incomprehensible]] So here we have to oppose this issue of fossil fuels to deepen the environmental crisis. This government is working against it. Also with this special strategy to get out of coal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u147	Thank you very much. First of all, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u148	I, Mr Vice-President, would like to know where the government is, where the National Assembly has ensured this withdrawal from coal in 2033. Now, if it's in the minister's head, okay. If that's it, I don't know where, okay, but in the National Assembly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u149	My colleague, just a moment. Look, all of you who are in the hall, don't jump to the one who speaks the word. You'll get a chance to answer. Secondly, colleague Alenka Bratušek, the procedural proposal is intended for the chairman. Not to the Minister, not to anyone else. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u150	If you've listened to me, I've asked you to tell me where. Because what we say in the National Assembly is supposed to hold. Where did our country pledge to stop using coal in 2033?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u151	My colleague, the chairman is not the person who will answer to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u152	Well, you can provide [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u153	I am conducting a meeting in accordance with I am trying to lead the meeting as it has been so far, not to answer technical questions and other matters. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u154	This is far from a technical question, this is a very important question for the whole of Slovenia. Especially for that part of Slovenia. So I will repeat and conclude: Where is this number or year 2033 recorded or confirmed? Because I don't think it's a matter of one minister, but it should be a matter of a broader debate that should be public with more stakeholders and so on. That's why it got me, I'll say. Although this has nothing to do with the law that we are considering today, that must be said.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u155	Thank you very much. See, I have warned everyone that, if they are already broad in the debate, at least in replicas and also in procedural proposals, limit yourself to what the Rules of Procedure say. And we need to spread the matter to the left and right now. The SAB amendment has now been specifically tabled and is being discussed. Where you propose to amend the provision by reducing the value added tax for energy supply to zero for all demand groups. The exact four sentences were said within three and a half hours. Exactly four items. Look, I'm monitoring the debate and you're talking about everything else. And the point so opened that there was a broad debate, I did not intervene, but look at what to say to people at the end of this VAT and this measure, which is proposed as an amendment to the article. Please stick to the content as much as possible, as the Rules of Procedure and the content of the amendment. Replica, Comin' Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u156	Thank you. With regard to the Climate Fund or the Minister's reply. If I understand correctly and this is a bit funny, then let us accept the idea that from the Climate Fund now funding the burning of fossil fuels, that the burning of fossil fuels will finance the Climate Fund, that was your answer and I cannot accept it. Just as I cannot accept the fact that we are financing this measure at all from the Climate Fund, and the fact is that in financially weaker households, these households are previously affected by cheaper energy sources, which are environmentally controversial, leaving carbon footprints behind. Let us also say that I will not only criticize, but that I will be proactive about one proposal that we have put forward in Levica, I think that when we adopt the budget, we have actually proposed a proposal or some translation of the initiative from the Institute by Josef Štefan. At the Institute, Jožef Štefan came to the conclusion that if the roofs of all public buildings were to be covered in Slovenia with solar power plants, two times the necessary electricity would be produced for the whole country, so not only everything we need and would be self-sufficient from this address, but we could export about that much electricity once again. The solutions are here. Right transition and I'm asking the debaters here that at least we're on the right side of crisis resolution we're talking about a fair transition not just a green transition let's give less CO2 to smoke [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u157	Mr. Siter, have a replica of the Minister's debate. What you're saying isn't exactly any replica. about all other things. [[talking to each other]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u158	Thank you very much. / talking to each other/
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u159	Please finish because this is not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u160	I've got another 50 minutes in my class.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u161	It's not a replica. You can sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u162	Thank you, I'm concluding. Therefore, I ask Members that at least we stick to the correct vocabulary here in terms of terminology. We are talking about a fair transition that is not only ecological but also social, economic and other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like you to discuss what is on the agenda. If you want a broad debate on energy policy, call a meeting. But here I have read before you the debate on the amendment of Article 4 with a concrete solution. By introducing a measure instead of a measure, we generally facilitate a time-limited VAT and nothing else. All the rest of the flaking of Comrade Siter will be told at some other point. The word has Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u164	Thank you. You don't want it to be admitted that the opposition has submitted a number of good amendments to this law, which the coalition has passed from the first to the last. All of these were the types of content that actually improved the law, which helped target precisely those people who needed this kind of help, who were meant to help if it was the Government that had been late for at least half a year now not until 2 months and also the amendment to Article 4, which we now have on the table, as well as all the opposition next to understand this problem. We put the first question on this topic to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology in early October alone, and then continued. We have been alerting both the opposition and the professions all the time, and Europe has given timely warnings, offered some options, a set of measures, which, we now find, of course, is not being used by this government. And this amendment, which is now being tabled, refers to precisely this, a concrete measure from the European Commission's set. And it's one that's very effective. And it targets exactly what happened to them, contrary to the of course, law that we have on the tables, where it sounds very good to 700 thousand people will get an energy voucher. The visions of this marriage are multilayered. On the one hand, the purpose of the law, as described in these pairs of sentences in the text itself, is to address those who are actually suffering from rising energy prices and receiving higher rates. Of course, the goal of marriage is beautifully written, but only everything else does not follow that goal. The fact is that energy prices had jumped since last September, that we knew that this was happening, that we knew that this was going to happen, and we also knew that these price hikes would be followed by others, that we had been alerted all the time, and that the government had not responded to it today, even more so, the coalition rejected a very similar proposal from the opposition, which was significantly more at a time when the smoking season started well. Today, of course, we are nearing its end. What I am describing is, of course, very similar to what this government did during the epidemic, so it ignored the warnings of the professions, left the citizens to find themselves as they know and know, but now that the elections are coming, of course, it has come to realize that this as they know and know it will not work and that it would be good to buy another vote by getting an extra voucher on April 15th. As such, the law is incomplete, and so are the amendments that have been tabled because the solutions contained therein are inconsistent. And if we look at them strictly from a substantive point of view, they do not really follow what is stated as the purpose of the law. So, to help those who face too high a score, but follow only to give additional incentives for such participation even after the elections. The problem is, as it's said, it's not addressed to those who actually need this voucher. That this voucher will be given to a whole bunch of people for whom nothing has really changed. We've already talked about some who might be heating up electricity in those companies that said they wouldn't raise prices. Then there are those who may warm up to the trees, where nothing has changed yet. Then there are others who are above the censor as they were placed, and their scoreboard has increased significantly. We have all seen these contributions, what are the rates for people in Jesenica, Maribor and so on, and today we also received an analysis of prices in Celje, where the rates rose by 163%. And the net amounts that people have cited are also 200 euros a month. And that's why it was our proposal, which you also, of course, rejected, to target precisely those who actually raised their bearings and that those, of course, then get more, because summa sumarum then weighs the same. And the main difference is either someone gets 150 or 300 euros, or they get them immediately or they get them in two months. Because, as it is said, for the first time, the burning season is ending, and people have had these badges for four or five months now. And I don't know how they're gonna pay them by April 15th. Secondly, on 15 April this matter will not miraculously disappear, neither will 24th and things will continue and the tribulation will continue. That is why it is so much more important to stick to medium- and long-term measures so that in the future this country will ensure that at least the basic goods are still accessible and available to all. And take some measures to prevent such leaps from happening to us in the future as they are now. The original sin, of course, dates back to 2016, when the price of petroleum derivatives began to be liberalised somehow, which, from 1 October 2020, released everything with firm promises at that time, with a fig in the pocket of apparently solid promises that this would not mean an increase in prices. And we know that today we pay once a price higher at gas stations than we did a year ago. And that's what everybody knows. And measures should be taken for everyone. And any increase in electricity prices in the matters we have been talking about are unjustifiable. They're unjustifiable. The second is gas, of course, where experts have said that speculation is also a matter of course in the world markets, and then, of course, it is very quick to turn it into prices at our level. And as if people had not been affected by the covid crisis enough, there is now energy in which the government did not react and should. In October, the European Commission made available a set of measures ranging from decrees to the establishment of certain safeguards to the reduction of tax rates and so on, but this was in October. Today we are in February, when we consider only the first government response to this topic under the urgent procedure to understand, with payment in two months. I don't know if anyone understands. Of course, the countries of Europe have immediately found that there will be no concerted action within the European Union, that there will be no coordinated approach and that each Member must take these measures on its own and, of course, can accept those most suitable for that country. And countries have already taken these measures in September – all the rest of them, of course. It's already September. So Spain, Germany, France, even Greece. Even Greece, which we have somehow in our heads to react more slowly, even Greece has outrun us here, and we still haven't. And now that we put it on the table, what do we really put on the table? We give too late, we don't give to legal addressees, we don't give too little, and in doing so we're emptying a climate fund that in the future can actually solve the exact problems that we're dealing with today. And the next question is why this climate fund is still full. Why are the funds from this climate fund not spent on projects that would allow us this stability in the long run? It has also been said that they are waiting for applications to solar power plants unsolvable because networks cannot do so. Instead of investing in additional funds to upgrade the network, we will now take this temporarily. People buy electric cars, but they can't put chargers on at home because the network can't handle it. On the other hand, we have measures, it has already been said, solar power plants, public solar power plants, including private houses. I don't know. I don't know. A lot of families can't afford it, and the country could help. It is possible to replace older electrical devices, which burn significantly more energy than earlier and so on. They're measures. But of course we are dealing with how we will share money just before the elections, that people will remember it and, of course, they will surround the right number at the elections, and that, I am sure, will not help. As it is said, the amendment we have on the table follows exactly the measures proposed by the European Commission. However, it is also one of the problems of this proposal that, irrespective of the amendment adopted on the home working body, we believe that the issue of the floor owners in multi-housing buildings with joint boilers is still not adequately addressed. And that is why I, and then I will not speak again, would also explain our amendment to the next article, which addresses this particular problem. Indeed, we believe that it is still necessary to supplement the text, which will clearly define that domestic customers who heat their apartments from joint combustion plants to natural gas have all the rights of their existing supplier, as do other domestic consumers. We would like to point out that it is the duty of suppliers to offer even at this time to household customers with joint combustion plants, including those who already have contracts in force, the same purchase conditions as individual household customers. Because it's not clearly written down right now. And some bidders claim this, the exercise of rights is denied. And they say that this tariff can only be applied to those customers who only show an interest in obtaining an offer but not to existing ones. And what our amendment refers to is that the same right must and belongs under the existing law also to those who are already in a delivery relationship with a given supplier and thus do not really interfere with their relationship, but we are significantly better at defining and clarifying this right, which, in our firm belief, already exists. Finally, a number of stakeholders drew attention to the content of this Act, and specifically pointed out this discrimination. Like I said. If the will was indeed the will to resolve the confusion, the pressure of the people they have because of the rising heating prices, then this coalition and this government would accept the amendments of the opposition that have been tabled. But they're gone. From this I conclude that in fact the purpose of this law is not to solve people's hardships, but bribery.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? I see that there is still an interest in the debate, that there is still a lot of interest. Now, I will just repeat, colleague Branko Simonovic started the meeting with the announcement that we will hold the debate in accordance with Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the debate is only about the article on which the amendment is tabled in this second reading. We're here now. Now, I will read this second or this amendment to Article 4, saying: "The article's tax is changed by means of VAT exemption." The text of the first paragraph of Article 4 shall be amended to read: “The value added tax for the supply of energy shall be reduced to zero for all receiving groups”. The second paragraph shall be deleted; the third paragraph shall become the second paragraph. That's the title of the amendment. Now, here I would only warn you in some way, given what the debate was like, that this amendment also allows or give the minister with four children a VAT relief so that it is not only related to the solution proposed by the Government, but also this and another thing now, if it is so necessary to accept it and that people need this money, then this constitutional complaint you are talking about is actually such that it will delay it for half a year or more. The enforcement of this money or the enforcement of this aid. In short, that's it. I am now opening the debate or the application procedure. Here you go. First he gets the word Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. Now this exercise of yours, Mr Vice-President, I do not think it was necessary, because if the Minister has debated now for more than two hours now about everything on the line and not about the amendment, I will also allow myself to take advantage of this right that they had left before me and I will also comment on some of the debates of individual debaters before me, because I think they are necessary. I was deeply hurt, and in fact I was saddened by the debate of my colleague Doblekar, who was very vehemently wondering at what level we in the opposition are getting together when we are talking when we are even daring to talk about these supplements that will be received under this great family law. I guess it's blasphemous to talk about it now, but I still have to explain. Personally and even in LMŠ we have nothing against large families, we have nothing against the politics that promotes fertility, but not in the way that you are going today, because it is clear from the plane that it is one of your elected mints that you clearly judge and throw back the ball. Are you not at all a respected coalition to propose, to adopt a law that is potentially unconstitutional, where there is already a constitutional assessment and whether you are not ashamed because you do not want to listen to all the warnings, arguments and well-meaning suggestions to improve this law to this extent, so that there is no doubt and no reason for such an assessment of constitutionality? You're just going to go ahead with your roller coaster because you've set yourself up to feed these electoral candy to all the big families and without asking yourself whether all these large families really need this financial supplement in the form of your energy voucher or are all so in financial distress that everyone who has three, four or more children in fact should be ashamed of you, because we're warning and reminding you that I don't even know your government ministers will get this supplement and they certainly don't need it, and now you're asking us if we're not ashamed to go to such a level. That's why we're here at work to remind you of the things you're doing wrong, the unfairly unjust treatment of our citizens and this supplement that you get from an individual can tie to some social status or some economic ability of an individual, you've put thousands of euros at the border, right, yes, but there's no such condition in large families, and all the large families in Slovenia are entitled to that supplement. And believe me, there are quite a few of them, and I know them personally, and a few large families that are very well-situated, economically well-sustained, and they don't need this supplement, and they're going to get it. While, on the other hand, a pensioner who lives alone, who may live in an old large house or even in a rented apartment, has a thousand euros or a thousand euros in pensions and comes across your threshold, he will not get this supplement. I ask you whether you are ashamed to bring such a law into our house, to cover your ears when we give you this very good warning, we do not want anything but a more just arrangement. You repeat all the time, yes, thousands and thousands of Slovenians will get this help. Okay, it's great, but thousands and thousands of Slovenians are going to get help that they don't really need, because they're not in financial trouble, because they don't choose every day, or they're going to go for a pound of bread and a liter of milk or pay for the heating bill, believe me, and individuals are the ones who ask each day what they're going to spend their euro for, and these are yours, ours, aren't they? — but they will not receive this assistance, and they would be more justified than a large family and not say that if we point out that we are depressed, I do not know that we are getting to a low level. Yes, if this is a low level for you to defend the rights of those who are the weakest in our country, then I don't know what kind of policy you're going, but it's certainly not a virtue that our people would earn from the representatives of the people. Now, I can still give you the ball, right? Aren't you ashamed to look away when we're in the opposition, in LMŠ, to show that students who, at this time, are very, very badly affected by rising energy prices, are struggling to break through the month, those who don't live at home, those who pay expensive rents for one room, or are you not ashamed to look away when you had the opportunity to press the button for when the amendment was given to help such students and students, financially? Aren't you ashamed? Or, or are you not ashamed when we have warned, it is once again very well-intentioned that in an article that speaks of beneficiaries, where there are also foster parents, that you have written down that the caregiver who has concluded at least one foster contract in December is entitled to help. We have warned very well that the article should be amended, or that this sentence should be amended, so that the aid will also be eligible for a foster care contract concluded in January or in November, when the season is already on fire or in February. Do you realize how many foster families fall out of this description that you gave? Aren't you ashamed to look away and not support our amendment? The Secretary of State, Mr Uršič, also said on the Committee that he supported such a change because it was good. He also supported the proposal of the LMŠ to ensure that this additional supplement, which you have given to large families with four or more children, was said by Mr Uršič, yes, I also support that this additional allowance is paid to foster families with four or more locals and he even said that he has made a great effort to ensure that such families are a 33rd respected coalition, whether you are not ashamed to look away here and not support such an amendment. We're not doing this for us. I don't care about, I don't know, the credit. People would have some of that, and that's those people who really need help. But if we were to be perfectly honest, if your intentions were really to help only those who needed it, not those for whom you consider to be your elective body, then many of the opposition's amendments would easily be supported, because it would be just, fair and right. Well, you didn't. And today to speak, very patronizingly to advise those who have financial difficulties, at the moment, and to say, and to refer them to the Centre for Social Work for extremely cash social assistance, colleague Horvat, below the level. Underneath the level, while you are charging 150 euros, 200 euros to your ministers with a large family. But people who really have a hard time surviving from month to month now that it's a hot season and when energy prices have risen in the sky, these people are being sent to a social work centre for extremely cash social assistance. Yeah, well, where do we live? So how do you have a conscience in this way to debate? I understand, everyone has their own way, we're in the house where the speech is the only tool, but sometimes it would be nice to think a little before something is said, because just like it turned out, but it hurt my heart, which is only those people who were meant to do it. Underneath the level, and once again, are you not ashamed? And I'd like to comment on this. We have also heard debates, aid needs to be quickly provided, protection and assistance needs to be provided to those who really need it, and I propose this VAT reduction is terribly wrong and unacceptable, an unacceptable proposal because, by reducing VAT, it would help all I know, including those who do not need help. Okay. Let's turn the mirror around and see what your help is. Is it really only those who need it or I'm going to say it again get it from those for whom you are, not only those, but also those for whom you have estimated that they are potentially your electoral body. This mirror, I think, should be set up, a respected coalition, and if we were really honest in our intentions, we would also not look away at the amendment that stipulated that the payment of this assistance would be made before you proposed it just before the elections. But it's so clear what you're doing that, in fact, what's really good about this bill, you hit it off. Hit because everything else is so dirty a game on your side that with one act you crush everything. And once again, if they were well-intentioned, we would also consider that these great families would be slightly different in writing and exempt from those who do not fit in, for example, your government's ministers. So, once again, set the mirror yourself and ask yourself if you are not ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. I read this just because, at the outset, I said that people would know what they should talk about, but we are not talking in the National Assembly today when this article and the amendment are being considered. And secondly, I have just said that the overall reduction of VAT for all connections does not distinguish between a large family of ministers and a large family of rich people and a large family of anyone else. He's not selective that way. Now he's got the word "magic." Marko Koprivc. The replica has Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, I have to respond because LMŠ Member Heferlett, who has now left the Chamber immediately, has very much stepped into my debates and now I don't know if she understood me well or whether she wasn't listening to me or was deliberately deceiving me and saying something I wasn't saying. Now she's repeated it a hundred times, and you're not ashamed. And this is the Vice-President of the National Assembly in the National Assembly. I hope that's what people have been listening to. She didn't ask if she was ashamed because she wasn't able to help her team keep the government. That's not what she asked. And if it's not a shame that they were not only incompetent, but that they'd let people down, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and thrown the rifle into the corn. That's not what she asked. That's what I'd ask myself. That's a shame. And the fact that I constantly saw in her discussion that she was surrounded by large families, that she was constantly making differences, or that she wanted to make some differences between peoples, was ruled out by some. I said nicely that the law was written in full, that is, a comprehensive solution, what was essential and we said such a law, we will also confirm. So the law is written in its entirety, covering a large number of years, including large families. Large families who have so much talk and how to deal with whether a minister or an official has more children so that he too will get it. But I also said in the debate that I didn't hear any Member say, let's say the LMSH, and I'm not going to benefit the sheepmen, and I'm not going to benefit from this assistance and so on. I didn't hear that. But to dress up in big families. That's very, I mean, below every level. And about whether you're not ashamed or not ashamed, to repeat it a hundred times, by some MP who is also Vice-President of the National Assembly, that's true. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Disgraceful and hard to hear. And apparently she didn't listen to my debate, and I didn't mention her once in the debate, nor the LMSH, but I was saying that let's talk respectfully about large families and let's show respect for large families and let's not be ashamed to help them. And everyone has to help, not make a constant difference, and exclude someone. And now, what I used to hear [[sign for the end of the debate]] Member, she will know who we will give this help to and to whom we will not. We've captured a large number of people, over 700 thousand, and that's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, just for an explanation. Comrade Doblekar, I went out because I was able to do some other urgent things before leading, but I would be happy to listen to your replica in its entirety. And I agree, yes, we need to talk respectfully about everyone, not just the big families. The next debater is mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. Look, in the democratic opposition, we have been alerting for at least four, five months that energy poverty has come to Slovenia and that it is necessary to react, to act, and there was nothing by the government coalition, except the promise that it will be by the Prime Minister. Certain words were spoken by the Minister for the Economy, the Second Minister for Infrastructure, again third and so forth, and we ended up now at the end of the month of February, so to speak at the end of the smoking season and the government came out with some proposal for a law that would otherwise help. It's hard to say it won't. But the question is, if this law is to address the right beneficiaries, those who really need help. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that we have tabled a very concrete proposal for a law that would have addressed the right beneficiaries a long time ago, and the opposition did not back our proposal. We have also set a number of initiatives to react, we have convened extraordinary meetings and so on, you have done nothing. A few hours ago, we discussed that the government has initialled an agreement to purchase no weapons worth 400 million euros. But it's money to help people who can't pay their heating bills who have been in the cold for months now, and that's not it. And now, just before the elections, you've come out with some law that I can call a comatose candy bar, and we're adopting the law today in the National Assembly as we say at the end of winter. And as has already been said by the predecessors, the law does not refer to the right beneficiaries, those who would actually need help. And look at Comrade Doblekar, otherwise I believe you are deliberately deceiving. None of us in the opposition have anything against large families. But it can't be the criteria of a big family. And when we give the case to ministers, we can also give the case of some other director, or I don't know who makes a lot of money, and that doesn't need help, even if he has three children, and he's missing the law, for example, students who don't break through in a month who can't pay the heating bill without help. And that's the key problem. You know, you can go back to the ideological field, and the left has something against the big families and up, down, stupidity and untruth. We've got nothing against it. But if someone who deserves, I don't know, 3,000 euros or more, they don't need that help, that's all we're saying. Please stop fooling around. I understand why you're doing this. You work because you would like to bribe literally those who are a little bit more your constituents possibly and here you have estimated that these are obviously large families and that you are giving money to these people. To someone who earns 3,000 euros, or even both partners after that, you're going to give them another 150 or even 200 euros, because the poor gods can't pay for electricity. Or just because you want to reward someone for having three kids. That's a key question. Give help to those who actually need it. Give help to those who can't pay their bills. You're a minister, and I'm now cariculating on the minister's case, despite having three children and having three children, he can pay this raise for 50 euros or 10o euros a month. But someone else can't. And instead of putting this money into multiple rents, not just one two weeks before the elections, instead of doing it, you rewarded those with large families. It's unacceptable and you're proving that you don't care enough about saving energy poverty. In order to make sure that a few weeks or even days before the elections, purely concrete voters get the money on their account. If colleague Hefferle asks a rhetorical question, if you're not ashamed, I'll tell you: you may be ashamed to the bottom of your soul.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not ashamed of myself, and I'm not ashamed of myself at the bottom of my soul, because with this law that we have before us, we're going to help 700,000 people. Do you know what this number is? Do you realize what this number is and how many people will be helped? And it's right to help. And I understand that in the opposition you oppose and draw from the veins five certain reasons that for the 700,000 people who bring this law a solution, you won't have to give your vote for and you're looking for people and groups that may have fallen out or haven't fallen out and you name them here and you compare them with each other and say that we should be ashamed. Shame can be on those who will not support this marriage today. How can they get in front of 700,000 people and say no, because of this one maybe but the priorities of the solution you won't support a law that will help 700,000 people and actually will. According to the solutions provided for in Article 67, the persons entitled to the solidarity allowance are pensioners, employees or whatever income for December 2021 amounted to a thousand euros and less for December 2021. Beneficiaries for disability compensation for the month of December 2021 under the law governing the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. Receipts of monetary social assistance or of a monthly allowance of December 2021. Beneficiaries to the children's allowance from the first to including the 6th income class for the month of December 2021. Beneficiaries for a large family allowance for 2021. Breeders who had at least one foster contract in December 2021 in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the implementation of the fostering activity. Yes, the foster parents. Anyone who knows this area knows how this area is regulated. He knows that these foster contracts are long-term, long-term, that they do not cut here for each month, that the foster parents who step into this project can say helping children who are not forced to leave their primary family because of their own guilt and that they help them and you probably know how many such families would want a possible answer to how many foster families the law does not address, I am sure that everything is. I am sure that all the foster families currently in Slovenia are in the program and I am not ashamed. I am not ashamed that Minister Jernej Vrtovec, when preparing this law, which, of course, also by the opposition, was repeatedly stressed that he had prepared a good law. I can say that the energy crisis has touched virtually everyone and that the comparison of the melting of pre-election candy has not been heard since the opposition was asking Members questions on this subject, that this is just an answer to a situation that is not only in Slovenia, which is in a world in the European Union, so we had the summit of energy ministers led by our Minister Jernej Vrtovec. When I listened to these discussions today, I can say that they were particularly emotional and possibly pre-eminent, that unfortunately my colleague, Alenka Bratušek, was not my colleague, who was saying that there was a destruction in Slovenia after 2012, left by the right government to remind her that she was also the Prime Minister of the Government and did not remove the measures from the ZUJF and could have taken them as Prime Minister of the Government. It's an obvious fact that officials have a large family. See that it is quite free to resolve why you did not propose an amendment that officials who have large family supplements do not belong. You say that you hope to see who hopes to share the nation and, of course, the number of children. One more thing that was truly historic in this government. In this government, the pensioners have been helped historically. Historically. With all the supplements, with all the forms of assistance they need, and also with the raising and coordination of pensions. During the time of Minister Janez Ciegler King, the pensioners received the most during the time of Slovenian independence. They were also given credit for all the work done in the past years, in the years they carried out as active citizens. And I have another new piece of information that will probably stab you. That's right. For an additional 4.4 percentage points, the reconciliation of pensions will take place in the coming days. Unfortunately, it is, I can say in this place, you support lowering net wages, you support lowering net wages for all working Slovenians. You may be ashamed here, but you're not. You'd raise taxes, and then I'd end up making things worse for big families. It's all been seen. Back in 2011. Law on the enforcement of rights from public funds when he took State grants and a full-year allowance for young people under age. These are the left governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The replica has a sir, first the mag. Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u174	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. I would respond to this part in the implementation of Mrs Dimic, because she obviously did not understand me well when she talks about how we want to make the situation worse for families with multiple children. I don't know where you heard that. I don't know who said that. I just wanted to say something else, not even make us want to eliminate the families of officials and so on. Nonsense. I just wanted to say that it is necessary to share this assistance according to the material status or position of the family and individuals. Doesn't that make sense? I repeat. Someone who has three grand's salary doesn't need it, no matter how many kids he has. But you know. And that's all I'm talking about. And yes, the task of the country is, I agree, Mrs Dimic, also with regard to tax policy. The task of the state is to redistribute it from those who have too little or those who have too much to those who have too little. And he talks through the same things, all the questions. But you want to further elaborate with your actions. Just if we put together a new tax reform and this is what you're doing. So, with the new tax reform, someone who deserves, I say, roughly, when they have a minimum wage, they're going to get a few 10 euros a year, someone who has three thousand and more will get a few hundred or thousand euros more. The energy supplement will be given to everyone following this proposal. Is that fair? The difference between the one with the minimum wage and the one with more than three thousand euros will be even twice as much as it has been so far. And that's your policy and that's the problem. However, the task of the State should be to redistribute from those who have to to those who do not. Not that it's a criterion of how many children someone has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u175	Thank you very much. There's a replica. We've got another replica, and what else would it be like if I could replicate it, and I can't get out of this town. Mr. Paulic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u176	Yes, thank you for your word. Now, I must respond to the implementation of the representative of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. In her debate, she said that everyone would be assisted. And I have already said in my debate that not all will receive the aid, nor will this aid be fairly distributed. And I'll tell you again, Mrs. Dimic. The foster families, you asked how many foster families are going to fall out of eligibility for help. On the home committee, your Secretary of State, Mr Uršič, told you that there are 33 such families, not taking account of the cut-off date. Your proposal foresees that these families, which will have a foster contract concluded in December, will be eligible for assistance. My question, Mrs. Dimic, is what happens to the foster family that will conclude the contract in January, February, March. These foster families are gonna fall out. And don't fool yourself into saying that all the foster care is covered by your bill, because your Secretary of State has told you clearly and loudly that they are not. And he agreed with our amendment, which also your coalition MPs rejected. Second category, young people, students and students who are entitled to an allowance under the law on scholarships. This sets out the conditions under which these young people are entitled to this supplement. We have tabled an amendment on the committee to solve this problem, and you have rejected it. Again, your Secretary of State, Mr Uršič, said that the amendment was meaningful and that you had actually missed this category of eligibility for aid. That's it. There's only one deception. And I forgive myself if I got a little upset, but it was simply by the representative of the Christian Democrats to listen to such deceptions that really pissed me off. And the pre-election candy, Mrs. Dimic. [[sign for the end of the debate]] If I'm not mistaken, your minister has made it public that it's not candy, it's candy.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Now it's only an explanation, because Mr. Chernigoi was in the middle of your replica upset that it's not a replica. Mr Černigoj, colleague Paulič also discussed all the topics he was talking about at first in his first debate and has just explained them further. So much for explaining. Since you've been commenting on something all along and saying to me that I have to stop the replica, I wanted to make it clear. And now I give you my word for discussion because you're next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u178	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. A well-respected, well-respected congregation. Look, I've been very polite. I'm listening in this room and I'm not commenting very much. That's why your observation hurt me a little bit too, but I hope so. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u179	No, Comrade Chernigoy, I will not allow you to lie like this because you have been protesting loudly against me all this time. And I'm not letting you publicize it now and pretend like you didn't do it. Because if we didn't do this, I wouldn't explain it publicly. [[advertising from the hall]] Now [[…]] Yes, of course you can get the word forward. But I don't allow you to pretend and lie to me in essence in the face, and the whole room. Please proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u180	Thank you, Madam President, for letting me discuss this. I can always defend myself. But let's go back to the dark. The prices of natural gas and electricity have risen sharply on global markets in the last year. And this is where we agree. A number of global factors have affected and affected price increases. Electricity prices are rising strongly due to the prices of carbon dioxide coupons. There are also our wrong decisions by some lobbyists in the past, which have also built TES6, uncertainties in the natural gas market, which is also being auctioned, rising coal prices and could still be listed. My personal opinion that the great impact of price increases is, in my view, also the wrong decision by some major countries in the European Union to close their nuclear power plants. The idea that nuclear energy is not renewable is either irrational or impossible at these times, and the purchase of energy elsewhere from thermoenergy is, in their view, all right. That we are not talking about a troubled environment in Ukraine or Russia at all. In Nova Slovenija we are aware that high electricity prices are due to a number of factors that have not been affected by the population. In order to improve the social security of vulnerable groups, I support the payment of a single social allowance of 150 euros for the purpose of eliminating the effects of the increase in energy prices to be received by pensioners and whose income for the month of December 2021 amounted to a thousand euros or less. Of course, the law has no direct implications for the state budget, as KUL has repeatedly told us in the past. Funding for the implementation of the law will be provided at 106 million and a half in the Climate Change Fund, as it is financial support to address social issues related to energy poverty. The funding from the Climate Change Fund has also been proposed in its proposal by the European Commission that no one will imagine that we could have invented this ourselves. The debaters have repeatedly warned me - whether the presiding lady - about raising prices in some Slovenian cities. Colleagues from the opposition mix pears and apples. Here instead of asking why these problems have only some cities, just maybe four or five cities, where are these same mayors and municipal councilors? In this Chamber, I also did not hear the condemnation of KUL colleagues to condemn the actions of the Network Agency, which without warning – without warning – raised the network by 10%. Where is your disgust, dear colleagues, is it possible that you are ashamed here? Why such silence and, in my opinion, even mutiny, with colleagues on the other hand? Can we then conclude with some "invisible" cooperation, I am asked by citizens and citizens. I tell them to judge for themselves. Maybe it's not far from the truth here. Then, further on, thinking, I was also very surprised to think that we should help everyone in the economy, so, only those who do not have great profits, in my opinion, is discriminatory, very discriminatory, mature for the Constitutional Court and the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, but very close to the issue, such thinking that it would only help those who do not have profits to confiscate those apartments that cannot be sucked into 15 minutes or large farms and businesses that do good or have profits must be supported. Such thinking is very, very close. Even popularism that ministers with large families will receive funds, is not, is not worthy of this hall and it is clear here that this needs to be highlighted clearly. As my colleague Iva Dimic pointed out earlier, why didn't you put an amendment in the opposition to exclude officials from the law? Why if their big families bother them? Why? Yes, colleagues and colleagues, I'll tell you the answer. Because they know that their proposal would burn down in the Constitutional Court, in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, and what kind of joy? What else would it be like in the European Parliament if the KUL were to bend their hands by the faithful Members of the European Parliament, huh? That's why. It's nice, it's nice to talk when there's something to do, but it's empty or quiet. I call on my colleagues from the extreme left themselves for a thoughtful silence regarding the care of the most vulnerable. When supported in Levica, extreme lefties, regimes such as socialist Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea, which burn on coal and oil, are still there, even greater energy poverty, although they have their own oil, drive cars, other oil and so on and are a great poverty and in large, more energy-poor to a greater extent. Historic warning of a colleague that maintenance [[?]] Slovenia is, in my personal opinion, a large blind manoeuvre. The current coalition, which is indebted at a negative interest rate, helps people and needs to be made clear here, helping people, the economy, farmers and also beekeepers. On the other hand, the government of Alenka Bratušek, here we must be clear, most indebted to the Republic of Slovenia for the smallest spoil. Maximum liability for, on the other hand, the smallest seizure or excessive assistance to banks and bankers. And here we need to be clear, and for such a good help alone, it has only been rewarded or only proposed for the European Commissioner, and these facts cannot be deleted. The current government has helped, has already helped many of the most vulnerable groups, as colleague Jožef Horvat has already said, to request exceptional social assistance from vulnerable people, as well as those with low incomes and increased energy and food prices risk material risk. Between September 2021 and January 2022, 27 thousand 600 households received the aid, totalling 12 million euros. The number 27 thousand 600 households is not small and it is said to be essentially a large circle of people got it. The average payment of this cash social assistance was EUR 370 per month. Now, as regards the Emergency Action Act to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices, let us say that we will help around 700,000 people with this energy voucher. If we make a little joke and say that in Slovenia there are two million 100,000 people, one third of Slovenia, residents and residents, we will help with this emergency act. We could do more, we could, but I think that in the number of 700,000 people we've covered almost all those who need this help. Finally, in the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats, we are betting on common good and solidarity. I am not ashamed, and also in the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats we are not ashamed to support these values. Social security is one of the foundations for the protection of human dignity. It is a condition for the internal peace of every human being and thus also a basis for economic efficiency. Those with disabilities or unemployment who are no longer able to care for themselves need to rely on the solidarity of others. [[Incomprehensible]] That is why I will be very happy to support this marriage. But I will also support all of the coalition's amendments. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mr. Paulich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u182	Yes, thank you, Madam President, for your word. Now, colleague Chernigoj, my discussions were obviously not well heard and in his debate he wondered why the opposition had not tabled an amendment that would solve this problem of unfairly granting these aids. And may I remind you, colleague of Montenegro, that an amendment was tabled by the opposition to bind the right to assistance to the social status of the family, but you have unfortunately rejected it. Let me remind you of the amendment that we have tabled in the LMŠ and which would have foster parents who have four or more of them equaled to large families. The foster parents aren't entitled to the supplement, and the big families, including your ministers, are. And I just don't understand and there's no logical explanation why you didn't support this amendment. Why didn't you support an amendment allowing young students and students the right to help? I would simply like to hear some reasoned answers from the coalition in all these debates why you did not do so. Despite the fact that even a representative of the government, a representative of the ministry, belonging to the quota of New Slovenia, supported these amendments and said it clearly and loudly. And then today you're telling us why you didn't table the amendments. We did, and you turned them down.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The debate will continue. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u184	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues, colleagues, all of them a very nice greeting. I will try to avoid lies, such as the fact that this government has indebted the country for 40 billion, and how Janez Janša denies climate change, and how they break today, a copy of whether large families deserve or do not deserve the help of this law. And if we go back to the amendment that talks about the exemption from VAT, I am of the opinion that if we were to propose it, you would be against it. Because whatever we're suggesting is wrong, you're against it. If we help one another, you say we have to help others. If we help others, you say we have to help them first. If we pay from the budget, you say, find the money somewhere else. If we find the money in the climate fund, say give the money out of the budget. In short, no proposal, no action will be okay, nothing will be high enough, nothing will be fair, everything is wrong. But all that matters is that you're against it. And you draw your ideas after we introduce them and put them on the table. But people have already overlooked this game to be against. And when we talk about an amendment to the VAT exemption and when we talk today about who it is appropriate, reasonable or fair to give, if we proposed a law or part of a law, an article to exempt VAT payments from what we would scream. You give to the rich, you give to the rich, you give to everyone, but they deserve only the most vulnerable. When we give the most vulnerable, scream again how we should give it to everyone. Example. PKP 10, they got retired, they got families, farmers, particularly vulnerable groups, even newborns, tourism, the economy, and look at the fraction, vote or vote, KUL was against. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that people will overlook at least April 24th, that there is no KUL or vice versa, as you wish. And today we're hearing about the problems, the high prices of electricity, gas, oil. As if in the field of electricity Slovenia is self-sufficient. It's not. Maybe look at prices in international markets, on markets. What were the prices like in June last year and what were the prices this year? And what effect could the Government of Janez Janša have on these electricity prices between, for example, €52 per megawatt-hour and €300 per megawatt-hour. If we look at the oil prices. I think it was January last year, a good year ago, a good 50 bucks for a judge. Almost $95 for a judge this morning. It must be the government of Janez Janša who is responsible for this rise. I think, even personally, I sarcasm that there will be no mistake that Janez Janša is responsible for the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and that Janez Janša is guilty because gas prices are likely to go even higher in the sky than they went. You talk so cool in the KUL Coalition. It's John Janša's fault, and whatever he's suggesting, we're against it. It is so easy for you, but the facts, Europe and the world are running in a different way, fortunately in a better direction. And today I'm listening to who's to blame. Yes, Janez Janša. However, if anyone asks a mayor and perhaps a director of a municipal company, what they are doing, whether they were in June last year or September as you say the matter began with regard to prices, whether they have moved or sat on their chairs, directors of municipal companies, including directors of individual state-owned companies, merchants and distributors, you cook one in the sky because you prefer him on the roof rather than solar power stations. What is their responsibility? What is the responsibility of the new miracle boy to hold prices for natural persons fairly low and, on the other hand, to increase prices for for example hospitals. That's not cool. It may be your KUL policy, but it's not cool. And today no one has agreed on the responsibility of these people? Why the mayors of the municipalities who are usually close to KUL’s customers do not ask themselves, their municipal councillors, the directors of these municipal companies, or their supervisory council what they have done since September last year. Collecting prizes, meetings, or caring for their citizens. Or, if you want, on a national level. We all know who the distribution companies are and who the traders are. And who is to blame, for example, if the price of electricity has increased by 100%, why in the final customers the price has increased by 200%. Is it Janez Janša's fault? No, no, no. He's probably some other guy with a name and a last name that should be responsible. In short, whatever it is, it's important that you're against the fact that you have John Janša's culprit and this government and whatever we do is wrong for you. I personally believe that if the funds for this law were provided to me in the budget, you would be the one who would be shouting: we have a climate fund, let's take the money out of this, because the legislation also allows us to do so. But since we've decided on the climate fund you scream against, let's get out of the budget, it's there for everyone. In short, let's take it from the budget so we can give it to the people. And when we find another solution, the problem is because the KUL was and is obviously against. In short, this duality really bothers me. However, I hope that people are also disturbed and will realize that it is not the government's fault for all the world's energy problems, but that the stories are wider, but only sometimes it is necessary to take a foreign newspaper or an expert magazine into their hands, and to see what comparisons are made of what is happening around the world now or what has happened around the world, at least in the field of energy or energy, so that I can be more precise maybe a year ago, six months ago or today. And when we talk about how the VAT exemption is supposed to be great in practice it would probably be the other way around. It would not have hit the most vulnerable group, but perhaps you would have come up with a KUL case for the Prime Minister has, for example, a house with 500 square meters, costing electricity and see, this VAT exemption will have the least impact on him. [[Incomprehensible]] One four-member, five-member family is going to hurt more, and once again, it wouldn't be right. Never good. I argue that the exemption from VAT on this condition would not be a good solution, that it would be better to get to know individual groups more, and that, yes, although we have forgotten a group, it would be better to give 720 thousand to people than to anyone or, for example, not only do they not give one, they take people and throw them to their tycoons and banks. And when we talk today about the green future, about the climate crisis, about the fair transition, yes, because we can open an energy emergency session but we can invite real experts, not those who dream about the sun when the sun is free of charge, but maybe show them what graphs, for example, what happens on a daily basis, for example, if there is rain in Germany or if the sun, how it affects the world's electricity prices. But what would you tell me about the important thing about having a sun in our heads, even if it might cost us three times or five times more than the price of nuclear power, where it's also obvious to be KUL if you're against NEK-2. In short, this demagogy today is what it's like to be a KUL against the hope that it will be after 24. 4. I will therefore not support an amendment that would make even greater difference than the draft law does and I will support the bill in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u186	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for the floor. Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary, Government representatives, colleagues and all those accompanying today's meeting. Nice greetings for me, too. We are in the law on the proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices. At the end of this mandate, when the global and European crisis has not begun, probably no one will have any idea that we will also face enormous electricity, gas prices and, of course, those chapters we call energy in Slovenia. I am pleased that, in addition to all the measures taken by the government over the past two years, it has also been timely, professionally confronted with this crisis and that today we have this law on the agenda. We'll vote on it tomorrow, but we've listened to everything we can. I know, the representatives of the government, the minister, the secretary of state, the secretary of state, and of course all those who are in the government, after all the ministries, you must have had a much harder job in these two years than we have had here in the National Assembly. I appreciate that even though every marriage wasn't probably without a mistake, I appreciate your work. This work, of course, I gladly confirmed with a key here in the National Assembly, this work, yours, has also produced a strong fruit in people. That is the case with today’s law. Now that we have listened to the Minister, this is also on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, which I am leading to include over 700,000 people. I think that when we listen to whether any family is justified, which has more than three or four children, they have even found our fellow Members of the opposition to have even one or two ministers of three or four children, I will say that I still appreciate that minister more than that government, but in two years this family has certainly not been born with four children, it was already before coming into this government, and I sincerely wish that any of these ministers, who has such a large family, will increase this family after this term with any other Slovenian child. That is why I find this extremely irresponsible of my fellow Members. Of course, there is also a great deal of dust that companies, electricity companies will lose over a million over the network, but, respected colleagues and colleagues, those who are entitled to this aid have been paying the bills to electricity companies for over 30 years, and, of course, there has been a network at all these sites. [[Incomprehensible]] However, I can remind you that all these 30 years have not been ruled by the government of John Janša, but there have also been periods that have been made more or almost nothing on these waters, which you are referring to today. I also think that the electricity economies, all those who, of course, are doing this, are aware that people need this help and that they will also be able to transfer these finances for a month or so next year. In short, I also find it very irresponsible, colleagues and colleagues, we started this mandate together four years ago. Of course, for the first half of the time, if I speak in sports lingo, you were in the coalition, and we were in the opposition. You're in the opposition in the second half, and we're in the coalition. But since I have been in politics for quite some time now, I must tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that some of you have not even been in the coalition, nor are you in the opposition. Now they have given you the quasi-boss of a boss over you, but they tell you that you need to be more calm, so that the gentleman who is- - the majority of the Slovenian state will be carrying millions left and right, energy, and you cook him up to be the new President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, I appreciate you very much, I am also aware that you have done something positive in life, worked in positive jobs, formed a family, in short, I would like you not to sit on the quasi candy bar because you are challenging us candymakers, and I urge you also in this law, which touches citizens and citizens, we do not interfere with some candy, we left, you right, and that this law will go to the welfare of citizens and citizens. Look, I don't think citizens and citizens care at all when the elections will be, whether they will be on April 24th or later, or whether they will be before or if they will be last year. Our citizens and citizens are concerned that they will live in a safe, peaceful and orderly country. And when they need help, those politicians who have been elected from them will also help them. But you know, it's also going to help those who rode their bike every Friday. Those who gambled in the National Assembly will also benefit from this help. But you've encouraged some of them to do so. That was unfair. We have been in the worst crisis in the Republic of Slovenia for two years. I sincerely hope that this law, which is ahead of us today, is ending this crisis slowly and that we can live together whether we are in politics, in the economy, in agriculture, in health care, in schools, in waste management, so that we can live without masks and without crises. To make it easier for these people, we're all responsible here in the National Assembly. Once again, thanks to all those in the government, the ministry that you are working for these laws, and I guarantee that this law will, of course, be adopted tomorrow and all the opposition coalition amendments as well. [[…]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Janez Moškrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u188	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you so much for saying that. In line with the debate on the Committee here today, it has repeated itself, despite the fact that the amendment, which is a proposal, or amendments that are possible for discussion, speaks of other content as they spoke on the committee itself. In fact, one of the main initiatives was that the law and aid would be based on a reduction in value added tax for all those who are electricity consumers and probably gas. Why is this amendment unacceptable and so on? That could be why. They are the most self-sufficient, for example, the proponents themselves. I mean, this is about help. However, if we went to the reception of the amendment, it would not be an aid, but something flat-rate would apply to everyone in the Republic of Slovenia, including those who use electricity as a superstandard, there are various heaters, heating and similar things for luxury, so that I will not be more precise. However, the basis of the law is based on the fact that Europe and the whole world are in the final stage or are talking about so. energy poverty. When we talk about poverty, we talk about those who need help. It was well said that in our Republic of Slovenia thank God those people who need help get it. And this government has been worrying all the time with the help of us in the National Assembly that this has also been happening all the time in the crisis, the medical crisis of covid. In addition to wanting to preserve things in the economy, we also helped the most vulnerable groups. This was for the pensioners and all the other groups. Because we have a social security scheme in our country. Thus, we know exactly how many people are receiving social assistance, then there are protective allowances, how many pensioners have the lowest pensions and a few other social transfers are, among other things, an allowance for a large family. This was now an effort and a basis for dealing with the problem of energy poverty, which should not be the case in the Republic of Slovenia. It should not be, if those responsible for this area were to have a policy, we would also call it the non-social, but the economic and long-term stability of the system they run. That's what the Ministry warned her about in the beginning. We should be safe in Slovenia for what? We have certain energy products produced at a fixed price. We are also talking about nuclear talk not least about TES6, which is a fixed price problem with TES are the real energy coupons. The third problem happened, because of covid, when the energy was stalled for a while, and then their demand for too high, but once again, the law is aimed at the most vulnerable groups of people who are identified in Slovenia by the recipients of social assistance with the lowest pensions, and some people are encouraged by the real few groups, including large families. This is the most easily implemented measure in practice. I also said myself that I would like to really get only the one that needs, but it is impossible because in Slovenia we thank God we don't mostly warm up to electricity, we warm up to wood biomass, we warm up to the right other sources and electricity is among the last. Gas, which is also the subject of this story, is not only a problem of the world's nature but it could be more common in Slovenia. This endless debate today, who can be excused and who has not been held in time, has been unproductive and unproductive. Let us give to the socially disadvantaged or give to those who are already part of the social transfer and who can benefit from it today, and that is what some debaters wanted to say before me by the coalition and were then harshly rejected by what we are saying. Extraordinary social assistance in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the main foundations of why it exists is precisely this extraordinary event that a certain person has throughout the year. Warming up may buy a problem like a washing machine this does not happen every year and then for at least 5 years thank God for peace and so on. All of them have been told how many of these have already been served in the Republic of Slovenia. So we are not too late, but we would like it not to be necessary for Slovenia to use this instrument at all if those responsible for the purchases were to deal with all these energy consumers in a timely and cost-effective manner in their profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of discussers. Does anyone else want a word with this amendment? I see we're one Member. Mr. Boštian Koražija, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u190	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Now look again at the end I'm going to put a dot on the i, because they constantly tell us from the right that we're up against big families, which, of course, is not true and it's a total fantasy. We are on the committee, once again, giving this amendment, which would in fact give these larger families even more opportunities for this energy sheepdog or supplement, and at the same time, given the household's income, the proposal would be much more solidarity and social, it is fair. And I'm also going to say this reading in essence, because I know that you're all repeating it in full and regularly, but look, we can prove it with facts, we've made an amendment, we mean it, and we also really wanted to get these larger families, or even bigger households, at all. [[sign for the end of the debate]] those who are at risk of social or marginality in order to then be entitled to more return or supplement with regard to this energy solidarity voucher or supplement. By repeating again, I come from a larger family myself, and believe me, no one in Levica has a little against larger families with more children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u191	Thank you very much. If there is no longer a desire to discuss, I conclude the debate at Article 4 and put into discussion Article 5 and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, NSI and More specifically. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the agenda - Proposal for a law on measures to favour the consequences of the higher price of energy in agriculture and agriculture. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Members, good afternoon. The proposal for a law on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture, which we have prepared today in front of you in response to unusually high energy prices. These cause problems for the population and are difficult to follow only the economy. According to a survey of the Slovenian market, only 43% of companies have purchased electricity this year, only 21% have purchased gas, 10% of companies have not purchased electricity this year, and 51% have no natural gas units. That is why our economy has been exposed again after such a difficult two years and needs assistance from a country that is of a temporary nature. On the other hand, the effects of rising energy prices and mineral fertilisers are also faced by farmers. According to SURZ, energy and lubricant prices increased by 39% from November 2020 to November 2021 and 144% from fertiliser prices. Three measures are included in the bill submitted to assist the economy and agriculture as a result of this rise in energy prices. Assistance to legal and natural persons carrying out economic activity and assistance to agricultural operators and a measure in the tax area where the deadlines for the submission of tax accounts for annual reports are in particular extended. The economic aid measure is thus intended for legal and natural persons who carry out an economic activity registered in the Republic of Slovenia until 1 December 2021, and they estimate that their energy costs will increase by more than 40% in 2022 compared to 2021. The amount of the aid must not exceed 60 % of the injury, which is defined as an increase in energy costs in 2022, in relation to 2021. In addition, the aid is limited by flat-rate amounts per beneficiary category in relation to their sales revenue and the share of energy costs in business expenditure. From the table added by amendments to the draft text of the law, the aid can amount to between €30 and €2 million per beneficiary. The measure is implemented as a general measure and is not subject to State aid rules. However, the procedure for obtaining aid is simple and follows. The beneficiary shall submit a statement to the FURS through the information system by 15 April 2022, in which he shall provide specific information on his business. FURS will pay the aid in accordance with the above table in the single amount until 5 May this year. If the beneficiary subsequently finds that he has claimed too much, he shall inform the FURS by 31 December of the request. 1. 2023 and the funds are back. The measures shall be supervised by the FURS. The measure provides for EUR 70 million for approximately 40 000 500 beneficiaries. The agricultural measure covers a financial refund due to the impact of the increase in the prices of mineral fertilisers and energy products for agricultural production. The measure is justified by operators of agricultural holdings and natural or legal persons entered in the central register of bees. Beneficiaries will have to meet the condition that their energy costs and the costs of mineral fertilisers will increase by more than 40 % last year, their financial compensation will be granted in the form of a flat-rate per hectare of land, and their amounts will have to be flat-rated according to actual land use. In this case, the aid amount must not exceed 60 % of the injury. The measure will be implemented by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which will send information decisions to beneficiaries who will be able to respond to the decision. The measure is implemented as a general measure and is intended for agricultural holdings other than aid to beekeepers where the aid is de minimis. However, a tax measure covering tax legislation has also been added. [[Incomprehensible]] Your Honor! These measures will enable both the economy and agriculture to survive and reduce the impact of the energy crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The draft law has been considered by the Committee on the Economy as its mother's working body, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Mojci Žnidarič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! At its 44th emergency meeting, on 18 February 2022, the Committee considered the draft Law on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following materials: the opinions of the Commission of the National Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council, the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, the comments of Livar, the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the position of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the comments of JMV Fajer, d.o.o. During the time limit, the amendments were tabled by the Group of Members and Members with the first supported Independent Member Matejo Udovč to Article 9, the LMŠ, SD and SAB Group to Article 2, the SDS Group of Members, NSI, Specifically and Related Member Mateja Udovč for a new Article 9a, the SDS Group of Members, NSI and, in particular, several articles of the proposal. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, the Association of Beekeeping Slovenia, the Council of State and the Legal and Legal Service participated in the meeting. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained at the meeting that the amendments tabled to the proposed legislation are substantively amending and supplementing. She explained that, although the amendments followed the comments of the service to a greater extent, she also gave a warning regarding the addition of new content with a new chapter, for which it was not explained how it related to the content and purpose of the bill. She also gave a warning about amending and supplementing other laws in the transitional provision of the proposed law. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance expressed support for the bill and also pointed out that more lasting measures should also be considered to enable Slovenia to achieve competitiveness in global and energy markets. The Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food supported the proposal of the law. The competent representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Association of Beekeeping of Slovenia also welcomed the proposed measures and expressed support for the proposed law. In the debate, the debaters generally supported the proposed solution to the bill. They stressed the need to take measures to help the economy and agriculture that have been in difficulties due to the situation in the global energy markets and the rise in energy prices. They also expressed support for the amendments tabled, including the amendment to add beekeepers to the beneficiaries of the financial compensation and amendments to extend the deadlines for the submission of tax accounts and annual reports. The debate raised, inter alia, a dilemma regarding the reduction of the criteria for access to finance. This facilitates access to funding for many economic operators, including those with high sums of money and financial compensation in banks. The debate also expressed the view that the idea of the proposed law was good and the extension of the circle of beneficiaries was welcome, but its acceptance was late. In addition, the amendments do not address all the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, in particular as regards the impreciseness and inconsistencies of the legislative text. Following the discussion, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the SDS, NSI and the SDS, NSI and the Specific and Non-Related Members of the Mateya Udovč Group. An immaterial amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB groups to Article 2 has been withdrawn, the amendment of the Group of Members and Members was withdrawn by the first unconnected Member of the Group of Members to Article 9. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Once again, I give the floor to Mrs Mojci Žnidarič to present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u196	Thanks again. Slovenia is as strong as its economy is. This is something that we are particularly aware of in the Group of Members. One key priority must be sustainable economic and social development, which will allow conditions for a high standard of Slovenian way of life. But for all of this, we need a strong and successful economy. But we will only have a strong and successful economy if it has strong support and the support of a country that will be able to listen and help at the most crucial times. One of these was certainly an epidemic that threatened the economy at global level. The cells are also the largest companies. We had to make a decision quickly and responsibly. The decisions not to close the economy, but to help it, were crucial. We can be proud of our entrepreneurs, of our economy, who have persevered and fought and maintained one of the key foundations of our society. Unfortunately, however, the rise in energy prices has once again faced a major challenge. The move is back to the state. Again, we need to stand together and listen to those who need help. The fact is that the economy and agriculture are in serious trouble because of the situation in global energy markets and the exceptional rise in energy prices, and the government is trying to mitigate the consequences through irreversible financial assistance. State aid is necessary and necessary in this case, as it is the only way to keep them competitive. In the Group of Members, we believe, in particular, that the fact that a number of calls from the economy and agriculture have been heard is extremely important. We have specifically expanded the range of beneficiaries with the proposed amendments on the Committee. There's concrete help on the way. The changes are therefore in line with the calls received by the economy, beekeepers and accountants. To aid due to high energy prices, natural and legal persons who were established no later than 1 December 2021 and their energy costs increased by 40% in 2022 compared to last year's. There is no longer a need for them to employ at least five employees and to have an energy cost of at least EUR 10 000. These corrections enable access to aid to all business entities affected by the rise in energy prices and transforms the measure into a general measure without State aid elements. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is spending €70 million for this measure, according to the framework calculations, slightly less than 40,000 500 physical and legal entities will be eligible for aid. If I snore. In the Group of Members, we are particularly pleased to have found the right solutions. There's been a lot of coordination. By amendments and by listening to and hearing the needs of the economy and agriculture, we have improved the law in many ways. It was essential that access to aid be made possible by as many entities as possible in need of assistance. In addition to the economy and agriculture, we have also heard accounting services that have come under extreme weather conditions. The burden they bear is great. The deadline for the submission of annual reports is thus extended to 30 April. We are specifically behind the proposed measures in the Group of Members, as they address the most pressing problems of those who are most affected by higher prices. It is important that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are job generators, are covered. We have followed the needs of the economy and agriculture. The government's efforts to try to mitigate the effects of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture by means of financial assistance are seen as positive. We are pleased that the vast majority of comments have been made through [[sign for the end of the debate]] Amendments taken into account. The solution is here, today is the time for all of us to put our votes together for – a vote to help the economy and agriculture. As has already been said, Slovenia is as strong as its economy. In the Group of Members, we support the specific proposal for a law on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Polnar's next. He will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Slovenian State has decided to take action to increase energy prices in the economy and agriculture. What variables need to be taken into account and thus achieve their optimal combination and balance. Following a few months of coordination, the following parameters were identified in the initial draft law. The date on which the organisation was registered for the purpose of carrying out its activities, the number of employees on the day of the entry into force of the law by which the organisation had its status in difficulty, the percentage of energy costs in total expenditure, or their absolute amount, shall be reduced downwards and the forecast of the increase in energy costs in this year in relation to the previous year. Of all this, there are only two remaining — the date of registration and the increase in costs in 2022 compared to the previous year. Thus it was stipulated by the amendment adopted at the meeting of the parent working body on the proposal of the bill’s proposer — the government. In this way, the proposer compromised his work, according to his own assurances, a few months' work, which he did with undiscovered enthusiasm for himself, with certain members and members of the Committee on the Economy firmly assisting him. So what's going on with state co-financing? This question is as it is with other questions where we look for answers in what we think we know. In a specific case, it appears that the state has too much money and uses it easily. An additional €95 million is planned. When an epidemic erupts, the volume of production and service activities decreases, as less work is due to avoiding social contacts between people. The usual macro economic interpretation is that it is less produced and is therefore less spent. In view of the macro-economic developments, it is clear that the economic policy of the State must have the same basic relevance – to prevent the emergence of a financial crisis. It must maintain financial flows at a level that would have been achieved if there had not been an epidemic. The Slovenian State's intervention in favour of its economy has been the most reflected in the conservation measures worth €1 billion and €769 million over the past two years and in the liquidity conservation measures with €307 million of co-financing to partially reimburse fixed costs. A total of two billion and 76 million euros. During the same period, Slovenian companies increased the value of their deposits in Slovenian business banks by two billion and 240 million euros. The measures taken by the State have had foreseeable consequences in increasing savings in investment in different forms of derivatives and in the post-use structure. Tax revenues from corporate income tax and income are at a slightly higher level than before the crisis, which confirms the correctness of the decision on expansionary fiscal policy. But it all has its own price. A budget deficit totalling 6 billion and 566 million euros over the two budget years has been realised. This should be a sufficient reason to abstain from future decisions on new state aid. This time we were smooth, not without pride, ignoring both essential aggregates. The budgetary deficit of the State and the level of deposits of economic operators. In doing so, it is not a problem of political omens, nor is it a problem of the name of that or that ministerial president, but the problem is the ability to make reasonable decisions in the management of the country and its economic system. Finally, Members of the Desus Group believe that the legal measures will help businesses that really need this help and do not have millions or tens of millions of euros in their accounts. This is what those who really need it are saying, so we will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša is next. It will present the position of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go. S-N-S, mate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u200	Nice greetings to all present, especially you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Now you're making me a little crazy. Yeah. The covid-19 epidemic has taken too long, affecting our country, Europe and the whole world. Unfortunately, what we had before the epidemic, we can only appreciate now that we do not have many things or hope to get them back. The epidemic has left behind a number of crises, ranging from health, economic and energy. The consequences will be felt by citizens and citizens on their shoulders for several years. The situation is not pink. And that something concrete will have to be done to mitigate all these consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture. The prices of life’s energy needs have flown into the sky and this escapes many Slovenes, who need to think carefully about what they can buy for the same money. It is very important that our country's policy, through various measures, favours, is to get in the way of our citizens and to help them through their best efforts to overcome the current crisis. Many companies in Slovenia have recently been breathing on gills, as they wondered whether it was even worthwhile to continue production if the energy costs were so high. In fact, they are at the bottom, a number of them before bankruptcy, a financial breach, which also pushes Slovenian workers and workers into great uncertainty. The latter companies still need our country's financial assistance to recover and move forward with a positive balance sheet. Our agriculture is also on thin ice, as data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that energy and lubricant prices have increased by almost 40%. The prices of fertilisers and soil improvers also increased by 144 %. Increasing energy prices will affect agricultural production costs. Farmers will be forced to reduce production, because they will not be able to afford expensive fertilisers in the fields, and we will pay consumers higher food prices for peaks. So, our farmers, who are still working hard with their hands for every euro, are not looking forward to anything good. In the light of this uncertainty, it is the duty of the rulings to adopt “laws” in favour of the changed social situation and the damage caused to energy-intensive companies. On the proposal of the law, there were quite a few comments from stakeholders who believe that the law places too little emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. Others propose, as a key criterion for granting aid, that aid should be granted to all undertakings whose energy costs will increase by more than 20 % in 2022. It is important that the issue has begun to be resolved, and of course no law will be ideal for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Today, we are discussing the Government's proposal for a law on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture, which aims to help the economy and agricultural actors cope with the effects of the energy crisis. In particular, the proposal provides for the following measures: firstly, financial assistance to the economy, in particular to energy-intensive enterprises, and secondly, financial compensation for the impact of the increase in the prices of mineral fertilisers and energy products on agricultural production. In the proposal for a law on emergency measures to mitigate the consequences of the impact of high energy prices, which is also part of the energy legislative package, the Government and I did not agree with the way in which energy vouchers are distributed, since it has distributed money across the board, without any criteria, which is why those who actually need help will only receive this in a much lower amount than they would otherwise have. However, in this case, the Government has also clearly recognised the need to lay down certain conditions or criteria that companies must meet in order to obtain funds. Among other things, their energy costs will increase by more than 30% this year compared to 2021. The additional condition for the receipt of financial assistance is also that it is for companies that have had at least 5% of energy costs in the structure of business revenues or expenditure in 2019 and EUR 10,000 for this purpose. We agree with these criteria because they will clearly identify and identify those economic operators that are actually affected by the energy crisis. This would also ensure that the funds allocated to the fight against the energy crisis are distributed more fairly among the affected companies. FURS will pay one-off aid until 20 April. You only heard the right thing on April 20th, which is only four days before the election. This is certainly too late in our belief, so we believe that financial aid should be paid early, by 21 March 2022 at the latest, so no later than the end of the calendar winter, as companies need help immediately and no later than the end of the calendar winter. [[?]] they are receiving high electricity and heating bills as soon as possible and must be settled as possible. The amount of aid per company will depend on the revenues from sales and the share of energy costs in business expenditure. According to the text of the proposal, these financial resources to help the economy are intended to be provided from the Climate Fund. This is certainly problematic for us, as we all know that the funds from this fund are primarily intended to mitigate and adapt to the consequences of climate change, to increase energy efficiency, to decarbonise and to build renewable energy facilities. With this, the government is taking money for our country's green future. Therefore, we are unrelated Members of the EESC's view that resources to mitigate the consequences of high energy prices in the economy and agriculture should be allocated from the State budget instead of from the Climate Fund. The proposed law, in addition to aid to the economy, also regulates financial support in the field of agriculture. This measure provides for EUR 25 million and is expected to receive assistance from some 41,000 agricultural holdings. The Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development will, on the basis of data within 30 days of the adoption of the decision adopted by the Government, forward the information decision. The financial compensation will be granted in the form of a flat rate per hectare of land according to the type of actual use. I agree with this type of aid in the agricultural economies, because without financial support, the price of energy and mineral fertilisers would increase in the short term because of the reduced use of fertilisers and, consequently, even higher food prices. [[Incomprehensible]] But also in the long run, until farming is abandoned due to the declining income on agriculture, which could endanger our country's food security. We believe that this assistance will help companies and the agricultural economy to overcome problems in a short time until the prices of energy consumers are calmed down. In addition to the short-term measures mentioned above, we believe that medium- and long-term strategic measures should be identified and adopted that would help to achieve affordable energy for businesses, farmers and the rest of the economies. Of course, we will not oppose the unconnected Members of the bill. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The situation in energy markets is, in fact, unusual and is due to several factors. Revitalisation of the economy, mainly after the pandemic and increased energy demand, in particular the supply of goods and natural gas, reduced additional supply of gas to Europe due mainly to technical problems, lower investment, lower own production, and unreserved additional quantities of gas from Russia. Above all, electricity production from renewable sources is lower than is normal for this time of year. In accordance with the principles of the European Union for the functioning of the internal energy market, the supply of both electricity, natural gas and fuel is a market activity in Slovenia. In the energy market, there is supply and demand for energy supply. As a provider of energy suppliers who freely agree with each customer on the quantity, price and timing of the energy supplied. energy is essentially marketable goods subject to the economic legality of the market. In view of the situation, the European Commission, in its Communication of 660 final of 13 October 2021, lists the following possible measures for immediate responses to the Member States. [[Incomprehensible]] The first possible measure is crisis income support for affected households, i.e. a single amount or time-limited household aid for payment of deposits. In doing so, the European Commission encourages Member States to use the Climate Change Fund, so the measure must be unique in order to hold back long-term incentives to reduce energy consumption. Secondly, the reduction in the rate of taxation and the third, state aid. Therefore, aid to companies or industries is possible if they are transparent, so it is not discriminated against by clear criteria and objectives, so they must also be compatible with the climate energy objectives adopted with the NPNs. The existing State aid guidelines already allow for industrial leave, the exemptions are compared to renewable energy sources, so also in Slovenia and the European Commission will also retain this option in the revised guidelines. In addition to the European economy and also the Slovenian economy, in relation to the non-normal rise in energy prices, there are therefore links between the agricultural economies, which, due to the impact of the increase in energy prices and, above all, the increase in mineral fertilisers, have an increase in agricultural production costs. The data from the Statistical Office show that energy and lubricant prices increased by 39% from November 2020 to November 2021, with 144% increasing the prices of fertilisers and soil improvers in the same period. So the aim of the law before us, namely the bill, is to mitigate the consequences in the economy and agriculture caused by the rise in energy prices, the principle of the law itself, in particular the law, the social situation that is currently taking place, so the whole world has fallen into a completely new and unpredictable situation, both in terms of its duration and the consequences on society and individuals and the economy. In the light of this uncertainty, the legislator does not only have the right but also the duty to adapt the legislation to the social situation and to amend it if this is dictated by the changed social relations. The principle of adapting law to social conditions is also seen as a key element of the rule of law and, above all, of the social state. The main solutions that the bill brings are, therefore, due to the impact of high energy prices, mineral fertilisers on growth in the economy and agriculture, the following measures have been taken: financial aid to the economy in particular for energy-intensive enterprises and therefore financial compensation, and the impact of the increase in the prices of mineral fertilisers and energy products on agricultural production. The estimated implications of this law are, therefore, €70 million for the state budget for the economy, €14 000 500 for the economy and about 25 million for the agricultural sector, a total of €95 million for the Circus 41 000 for the agricultural economy. Let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which understands the economy and the Slovenian farmer, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič will next present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u206	Madam President, thank you for your word. We were able to see in the media last year that, or companies will be forced to limit production and forgive, and in part they will transfer higher energy costs to the price of their products. This last rise in prices of products and services can be felt on our own today. That is why the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce called on the Government to prepare measures to help the economy last October to mitigate the harmful consequences of rising energy prices. The effects of the rise in energy prices were also noted by the European Commission, which issued a set of authorised measures to help the economy last October. The Slovenian government has taken time to act. After four months, she finally drafted a proposal for a Law on measures to mitigate the rise in energy prices in the economy and agricultural activities. In view of the time taken by the Government to prepare the law, the LMŠ would expect a good marriage to happen and the opposite would happen. On the law written on the five sides we received comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on the six sides. The law was substantively unclear and the measures were insufficiently defined and discriminatory and the explanations of the articles were incomplete. While in LMŠ we have been warning for a long time that the Government should also prepare intervention laws in accordance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, as it is particularly important for the content governed by this Act that key stakeholders and the professional public are also taken into account and that the Government has not done so again. The result of such work was therefore a poorly prepared law, which the Government, through coalition Members, turned to its head an hour before the beginning of the meeting of the parental committee with the amendments. The criteria for granting aid have changed substantially by explaining that the Government is listening to stakeholders in this case to the economy. Here is the question why the Government of the Economy has not listened before. Although the amended version of the law is significantly better than the original one, it covers a large number of beneficiaries to the aid and we welcome that in the LMŠ. Nevertheless, we regret that you have disregarded some of our proposals to improve the law. The aid will be justified by economic operators whose energy cost will increase by more than 40 per cent in 2021 in 2022, but the fact that the energy cost has increased significantly in 2021 and is not realistically expected to increase by an additional 40 per cent in 2022. Here I am thinking mainly of carriers and logistics companies, whose essential cost is the purchase of propulsion fuels, so today we are putting amendments into the LMŠ that will eliminate this anomaly. It also lays down in the eyes of the sting that the Government rejoins itself with a discretionary right to provide for a more detailed methodology for assessing damage and the conditions and procedure for granting aid, even though all these rules should be defined in the sub-legislative acts today when we decide on the law. In the LMŠ we point out that such a government-run border can in practice cause confusion and confusion. The result of such legal uncertainty will again be that some of the aid received will have to be recovered. We're alerting another government discrepancy. When the government issued an invitation last year to co-finance operating costs for companies in catering and tourism, one of the eligibility conditions was that the company was not a taxable person. There is no such condition in today’s law. This means that some companies in the hospitality and tourism industry were unduly discriminated against last year. In LMŠ we understand that certain companies, due to the rise in energy prices, may be in such financial distress that they also have outstanding [[sign for the end of the debate]] However, we consider it necessary to set a certain threshold for a debt which the company should not exceed. In short, the new proposal is better than the original proposal and still has the power to improve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the middle of last year, it has been clear to the attentive observers that there are unusual phenomena in the global energy market, particularly the European energy market, which have indicated that there will be greater incentives in the short term. This has become a reality for consumers and the economy in the autumn. Warnings in public and politics have begun to form, Members and Members of Parliament have begun to ask questions and to request proposals for solutions. Even the European Commission, one of the most consistent advocates of the free market, free competition and non-interference in the economy, issued a special communication in this context in mid-October setting out a comprehensive package of possible measures that countries could take to help affected consumers and the economy. In October, faced with questions, the government initially denied the problem. Its representatives then cynically advised people to switch suppliers and exploit the conditions for political accounting. In November, when temperatures fell and consumer prices rose and the problem was discussed by the National Assembly, government representatives defended the market but at the same time promised to address at least the problem of the most vulnerable consumers immediately. Nothing happened until December, so we prepared a proposal for such assistance to the Social Democrats and put it in the National Assembly with the support of the opposition. Despite the consistent consideration of the framework presented by the government, its coalition rejected the law in January and thus lost another month of winter when it did not help people or the economy. For business and economic operators, the energy market may pose an even greater risk than for the consumer, especially when it comes to a high energy activity. While prices rise by about a third for consumers, some business customers have experienced a threefold increase in energy costs. Companies and business customers have also been facing pressure from energy sellers after termination of contracts for months. The government solution to which the economy has waited so long has come to the National Assembly in a form which has excluded all small entities that do not have at least five employees. This had to be corrected by its Members with the amendments. Aid which has affected the economy in general and in general will only be available to companies with energy costs increased by more than 40%, which is a high threshold that will prevent many from obtaining aid. With the amendments, the committee responsible has substantially altered the proposal of the law. The aid to the economy due to energy well-being thus covers only a partial compensation scheme of between EUR 30 and EUR 2 million per company and the extent of the financial consequences is not clear. Agricultural producers will also be able to take into account the irritation of mineral fertilisers as a damage. The following practice, which was developed under its rule, was also adopted by the Committee by amendments which add new content to this law. In doing so, it is not so much the appropriateness of their content, but the appropriateness of their placement in this law, and above all the arbitrariness with which the rulings have decided which groups to include in the law and which they do not. After many years of voicing and opposition, the rulings suddenly discovered the need and found themselves willing to listen to the proposals of accounting workers and extend their deadlines for submitting tax accounts. It is unusual that this has not been felt necessary to date and that several proposals have been rejected in order for this to be settled in a timely manner in the law governing this area. Suddenly, they also found that beekeepers were particularly threatened by energy abuse and added a special measure to the bill. It's a shame they haven't thought of any of the other particularly affected industries. Apart from the above-mentioned compensation scheme, the bill does not contain any other measures to help businesses, employers and other business entities to survive the period of energy abuse and to maintain stable and predictable energy supply. In view of the arbitrary conduct of the rulings, however, we can only hope that they have really entered into the legal text what the economy expects from the act of law. The social democrats of his establishment will not be hindered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chernigoj is next. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u210	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. All in attendance, all in attendance! The well-respected choir! The Council of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia have not yet recovered well from the Covid-19 epidemic, an invisible enemy with whom we have dealt very well in Slovenia, as the measures of the current coalition have been very precisely targeted. It is not surprising, therefore, that all indicators place us among the winning countries. Even the best indicator is seen in historically high employment, which the opposition cannot deny. In New Slovenia and in the coalition, we do not run from responsibility, but by means of a law on measures to mitigate the effects of the rise of energy in the economy and agriculture, we respond precisely to the social sense and taking into account the different housing or interest organisations, with the same attention as in anti-coron measures, to the energy crisis. In the coalition, we are aware that assistance to the economy and the citizens is needed as soon as possible due to the unusually high prices of energy consumers, and we have therefore supported that the proposal for a law is being considered in accordance with the urgent procedure. When some of us weighed which measures would best respond to the energy crisis, part of the opposition competed with the likeness and speedy resolution of problems, which otherwise does not conform to the way they acted at a time when they bore responsibility themselves. In Nova Slovenije, we have already proven our service to the economy in difficult situations several times, so we support a proposal that has allowed companies around €70 million in aid and will have more than €40 000 in beneficiaries. This is 30,000 more than was foreseen in the original text of the proposal. Individual companies will be able to receive between €30 million and €2 million of aid. By means of coalition supplements which have been confirmed on the Committee, certain previously envisaged conditions are waived. Firstly, only legal or natural persons with at least five employees are entitled to the aid. Secondly, the cost of energy in business expenditure must be at least 5 %. Thirdly, these costs must amount to at least EUR 10 000 in 2019. In addition, the percentage of energy costs increased this year, compared only with last year's. These must so far grow by at least 40% and not more than 30% as originally determined. In Novi Slovenija we believe that we have also addressed the problem of farmers. They will receive a financial refund due to the impact of the increase in the prices of mineral fertilisers and energy products on agricultural production, in the form of a flat rate per hectare of land according to the type of consumption. We are aware of the difficult situation of beekeepers who failed to recover after last year's catastrophic pasture and therefore support additional assistance to beekeepers. It is also important to point out that the coalition has introduced in the draft law an extension of the deadline for the payment of legal persons' income taxes. This period shall be extended for one month until 30 April. We have also listened to the distresses of many accountants who have come at this particular time. Finally, in Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats are pleased that representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia welcomed the proposed amendments. The New Slovenia Group will also unanimously support the legislation on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u211	As the last position of the SAB Group, Mr Marko Bandelli will be presented. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, while Europe has been facing crazy energy prices for months now, the Slovenian government, unlike governments in most EU member states, has not seen the resolution of the energy crisis as a priority. With a delayed response, the government allowed suppliers to rewind the higher market price of energy in household accounts and already in front of them in company accounts. It also allowed higher prices to be passed on to final products, including food, as pointed out by Slovenian food producers. The Government excuses the delay by aligning the criteria with relevant stakeholders and European rules. However, this is not the case because the criteria have proved to be completely inadequate, discriminatory and contrary to European rules. According to the original government criteria, only 3% of companies would receive aid, namely those with at least five employees, at least 5% of the energy cost in the structure of business expenditure, at least EUR 10 000 in energy costs in 2019, and companies with an energy price increased by 30% compared to 2021. Was the aid promised when the government wanted to legislate it only in the face of the fact that the criteria met only the symbolic share of companies? Did the government not already realise at the time of drafting the law that the Slovenian conditions were not in line with the European conditions which the five employees did not require? In the opposition, together with all relevant stakeholders, we noted the inadequacy of criteria which are totally discriminatory to small and medium-sized enterprises, to craftsmen and entrepreneurs who are most vulnerable, but because of the condition of five employees and the high level of energy costs for the aid, they are not justified. Just before the law was examined, the Government’s coalition extended the deadline, with amendments completely changing the concept of assessing entities eligible for aid. Today, the coalition still has an opportunity to amend the criteria by investing, so I will only point out at this stage that the employee requirement has been deleted and that the beneficiaries are assessed on the basis of the actual share of costs and the increase in the price of energy. The deadlines for the payment of tax invoices were also extended with the additions, until 30 April 2022. In addition, the extension of the possibility of applying the tax mechanism for the transfer of greenhouse gas emission allowances until 31 December 2025 is extended. [[Incomprehensible]] In addition to companies, the State also grants aid to agricultural operators for the purpose of increasing the prices of mineral fuels and energy. The amount of aid to be granted depends on the type of land and its size. The coalition supplement also included beekeeping activities among beneficiaries. The law only stipulates that the aid will be granted at EUR 5 per bee family, a more detailed view will be provided by the practical government. So at this point, we cannot know whether beekeepers will actually get help. And that's just because of the unspecified criteria. The rules on the granting of financial assistance in force in the European Union set a limit, as also recalled by the representative of beekeepers. Since beekeepers have already been eligible for financial aid in the past, no additional aid under this law will be granted if it is found that the European limit has already been exceeded. The financial consequences of this law were originally estimated by the government at 95 million, but today no one knows what the actual financial consequences will be given that the conditions for granting aid have been put on the table. In the SAB, social liberals have been calling for the government's reaction for months and reminding us of developments related to the energy crisis. It is right that the affected entities receive assistance as soon as possible, but it is also right that Members of this National Assembly are aware of the financial consequences of the law on the State budget before the vote is pressed. In the SAB, we believe that it is least irresponsible to support the law without being informed of its actual financial consequences. That is why we will not support the marriage, but we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u213	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled to be made in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting to the debate the second article and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will explain the amendment tabled by Article 2 in the LMŠ, SD and SAB parties. I've said something about it in my position. It is, however, that the eligibility condition for aid is a 40 % or more increase in energy costs in 2022 compared to 2021. I may have a question here for the Ministry representative first, why such a threshold of aid has risen from 30% to 40%, but no matter what. We were also able to hear on the committee a representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who, while welcoming this revised concept of granting aid, also welcomed it in LMŠ, was absolutely better than the original one, but pointed to one fact: that the energy industry had increased for some companies already in 2021 and 2020, and that if, say one shipping company, the fuel cost rose by 40% and more last year, it is still difficult to expect that fuel would rise by another 40% in 2022, which means that this company was significantly affected in 2021, and it is necessary to know that these companies are practically the main cost of driving fuels, it is said that the company is significantly affected and will not be affected. So that our amendment, which goes in the direction of comparing to making a comparison of the rise in energy prices between 2022 and 2020, and if this amendment were adopted, would also include these companies that have already suffered these significantly higher energy prices. I gave the transport companies just in case, probably there are other companies that have already suffered the main impression. And it's pretty soon. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask another question for the Secretary of State. In Article 2, paragraph 6, it is stated that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will lay down in more detail the methodology for assessing injury and the conditions and the procedure for granting aid to the economy. Now, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State more details on these missing documents if there is no proposal for a sub-legislative act, if we do not have it on the table today. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! Although perhaps a number of people who have looked at at at least the report of the parent working body or who have accompanied only the meeting of the Committee on the Economy would say that it is more than a technical law, which is actually very substantive. In short, the situation is similar to that of the PKPs. A lot of technical material, which ultimately brings very important results and data. By calling on all legal entities in the field of economics and, finally, agricultural economies, that is to say, more than 50,000 entities, that when the law is passed, they take a good half-hour and look at it and see whether they may be among those who can also be personally targeted at these 95 million euro, of course in a positive direction. According to the views of the parliamentary groups, as if the law were not very good, but one surprises me. Members of the SDS, New Slovenia and, in particular, I think they have tabled amendments to almost all the articles. However, the opposition's sending groups have only one article for a single meeting of the mother's working body. So today I am surprised that there is still a rather negative connotation in this law, what could be done because you have only prepared one amendment to Article 2. And I expected that if they were the same, if they had the same vats for the economy and agriculture, they should probably also propose an amendment to Article 9, which talks about temporary measures in the field of agriculture and those percentages. So at least that's what I expected and then maybe we could talk a little bit more seriously about whether it makes sense to support this amendment, which, in your opinion, gives better support to the economy and why, on the other hand, not to give better support to agriculture. I have to say in person, given that I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, that we have also had quite a few debates in our parliamentary group when we received the law ourselves for review before he went to the government and there for reception, and some suggestions on how to help agriculture. Otherwise, we like that within the amounts that have also been corrected, there is a whole debate about the articles correcting temporary measures in the field of agriculture. Finally, we like it very much that, even at the proposal of the beekeeping association, thanks them from this point of view, they have also tried at least partially to regulate the issue of the height of the flat-rate, in short, that they are also receiving this measure. And yet, as I say, I am a little negatively surprised by some negative connotation of individual parliamentary groups, I will gladly support this law myself. I say, however, the amendments of the LMŠ, SD and SAB MPs seem at least in the first place inconsistent, because if we wanted to help everyone, we should therefore help economic operators and not least all the agricultural economies I hope to hit more than once. Perhaps this time, however, I will take advantage of the opportunity to hear about how the government has not responded to the issue of high prices in the field of energy. I have to say that I read an article half an hour ago about how Energy Ljubljana will raise gas prices, but when I looked at who's sitting in the leadership of Energy Ljubljana, I didn't see any members there who would probably be near SDS, New Slovenia or the party in particular. And I also believe that the government of Janez Janša did not appoint the mayor of Ljubljana, who then works with Energetics Ljubljana as well as work. In short, all those screams threaten how this government is responsible for the problem of raising energy, both gas, oil and electricity, which has a much greater weight on the world markets than in the Slovenian situation itself, first ask its beloved mayors and the directors of municipalities and dare to say to themselves what their directors of companies are doing, and then because they do not prepare themselves in time for a worse situation, because we all knew they would be, but that we must then save them because they are not saving them. And I'm saying it again. Who will take responsibility for which of these directors of these distribution and trading companies, to pass a higher price not only on the final people or on legal or natural persons, but not only that this price, for example in the world markets, has gone up by 50% over the last half-year in the field of oil, why there is then a lot of encouragement, as you are often speaking publicly about 100 and 200%. Whose interests are here? The government certainly doesn't. However, it is likely that some company and some director have some other interest, and eventually they may be able to resolve their failed investments and their investments at the expense of the state. Then here we, as Members and Government, must give more, because those who should give more, take more and give no more to the people. So that I will not support the amendment, but I will be happy to support the bill and, from this point of view, in particular, to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture, who, together with the stakeholders of the commercially economic, agri-economic, beekeeping association, have prepared such amendments, especially for the meetings of the mother's working body, so that I hope for the first time that they drink water and for the second time that they will take as many legal persons as possible to get something with the help of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u217	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Marko Bandelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u218	Thank you, President for your word. Now, the sentences that we've heard from my predecessor, it's a nuisance, as if we don't know what it is, we don't see what it is. All we see is weak. That's not true. Now here's where you have to say things the way they are. We said we wouldn't go against the law. We won't argue. We cannot vote in favour of such a law unless we know what the financial consequences are. That's clear. And it can't be that fixed consequence that's written in the original report. It can't be because you've cut off, thank God, everything we've asked for, if you've said so, you've probably cleared up that you need to make a difference, because you only assumed by your calculations, what was before, those criteria that were made, the criteria, would get help from 3% of businesses, nothing more. Limited to five employees who do not have any in Europe, this is said to have been not in line with what is envisaged, at least 5% of energy costs, but at least 10,000 euros in energy costs. That's what we say, we give help, we show up to give help, and we don't really want to give it. That's it. Now you finally understand that it is also right that they also get mainly small businesses, micro-enterprises, you could say there and it is commendable, of course, that it is commendable, but you are now doing the amendment again, nothing more than the relevant year 2020, not 2021. Because in 2021, energy repairs were made. A lot of energy has already improved in 2021. So, how are we gonna make that difference you put back as a security guard in there? We give help, we give help again, but you know what, everyone probably won't make it, so we won't give as much money as we think. Then what do you do in the end? By saying no, I don't know probably 50% of the people with the one who won't accept this amendment for 2020, instead of 2021, it's again because it's a sleigh, it's a gift, a big present to beekeepers, and it's five euros per bee. One million euros, which they had already received one million last year for what they had suffered. And there's no problem giving me beekeepers, and it's okay, but it's not fair on top of other categories. Why is it bad for them to be beekeepers? Again, help. What we have also seen, as I have told you, I have also made it clear to you that the question is whether they will ever get it. Because if they go beyond that, if the excess aid quota, as foreseen in Europe, is exceeded, they will probably not get it. So it's sand in their eyes again, too. We're making ourselves look pretty, looky, looky, looky, we're doing great, we've got a nice one, but the contents of the rot. Do you understand this is the essence of this law? There are always some hidden guards there's always something in the background, because then beekeepers why should we get this subsidy? I repeat I have nothing against them at all if a person told them we help them because it was a bad year as we all confirmed last year if it were a bad year and we would say we are also helping agriculture in general because things are planned, but here, after we got one report signed by Minister Andrej Shirtzl precisely because there was one question of SDS was here the question sent by Boris Doblekar that collapsed knee practically is said to be now given to me, it is so. [[…]] I mean, a guy asks, and then he gets his head kicked, because he's actually been told right here. See, my boys from SDS, beekeepers in this case have nothing to gain or have to gain – I tell you exactly who – and after this statistics, what is written here is exactly what one is described, which has a spending of EUR 117 says what if he gets the excise back. It means they're excused because they're working on a real path where the energy will be more than normal, and here I'm already on the board then I'm just going to say it again, because first, because I have time and because I also have the will to say it again. You understand in the register there are 11 thousand 223 beekeepers that's a fact, that's data. During the year 20, veterinary certificates were issued for movement — beware — says one who is actually moving bees, who has suffered a higher fuel cost, let’s say. In fact, 668 beekeepers were excused. In fact, those who received a veterinary certificate for movement 668 actually moved 40 branches or more by 319 beekeepers to make another half of it. Now you understand that 11 thousand 223 beekeepers would actually do this 319 beekeepers that is 2.8% of all beekeepers. Now, to see up to the highest annual amount of refund, it is said that what expelled excise duty is real to those who should receive it back or to those who will have to receive the subsidy, the aid was EUR 117 justified by one beekeeper in Slovenia. Then let's move on. That the purpose of moving bee families was a thousand - mile [1,000 km] job, so he was excused. The higher you listen well now, because the higher than 50 euros would only receive 7 beekeepers would receive 50 euros in subsidies at the annual rate of reimbursement of excise duty we speak. Up to €10, 481 of 668 beekeepers would receive. Now mathematics, because mathematics is not the opinion mathematics is clear to say 481 times 10 is 4 thousand 800 plus 350 plus those 117 get all together we're talking about 5,000 euros. 5,000 euros would be fair and these amounts here could be taken into account already in the basic table in the basic table that you did, which is good, which I support, which is made with one criterion with concrete criteria, if you say what is right, but now you tell me why we of the 5,000 euros that belong should actually get these beekeepers who have suffered the cost of speech will give them 1 million. We're shaking these millions out of our hands, you know, like it's nothing. Even so, at 2 billion and a half deficits that we have in our budget this year, a million up or down says there is nothing. Go tell the one who doesn't get to the end of the month. The one who's got a salary so much as to pay the bills and buy the last piece of bread for the last three days. Here tell him what one million means, where money can go with the right help, with the right help, when we saw the previous law that we saw what unfair criteria are for children but should give to the actual status of the family and you do not understand it is worth doing so and here we have the same problem. Good for everyone, I agree with that, it's okay, it's okay and it's cool, but we're spending, once again, money recklessly. You know why? Because we're doing a favor here. We're doing someone a favor. We know that I will no longer mention which party, which is not even a party, is a parliamentary party, which, who has put this proposal on the table, is absurd to be beaten on the chest at the expense of taxpayers. On account of our pockets. All the two million we have here in Slovenia, people. That's not fair. And so I say, I don't care about beekeepers, I could use the same argument for any other category. Any other category. But here I don't think it's right to be eligible for five thousand and a pair of euros, we're going to split the taxpayer's money for one million. Because everyone who has a lady at home, at home who has already received one million last year, or 930 thousand euros, has been distributed last year for help, and that is fair, is fair, because there was no production as it should have been, due to conditions. And here I agree. But in this case, it's not right now. It's not right. People have pubs at home, they don't move them anywhere, they don't have any expenses. And that electricity sucks. When I set the example, then we all have a washing machine, a dishwasher that consumes more than a centrifuge than a beekeeper. And don't make me say these things here. If it was another problem to help them, I don't know, help them to go to foreign markets, to go where they need to go, I don't care, I don't, I agree, the economy you know I'm in. But that the election campaign is underway and that it's looking for votes on this account, it's a divisional campaign. [[?]] . That's not fair. It's not fair to other citizens who really need it. That's it. Because a large number of other citizens have more needs than a large beekeeper who will receive five euros for every stump that does not have any expense at this time. So much for me. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u220	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. Now, I applied once again for the debate because I will comment on the implementation of my colleague from SDS. I sensed some kind of resentment on his part, if you're putting in some amendments and how many amendments we've tabled. Now something has to be said for the public. The government has been preparing this law for four months and has submitted it to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure and has turned it to its head one hour before the hearing on the parental committee began. And we have tabled an amendment to the original bill. The amendment touched on Article 2 which is a key article for granting entitlement to aid. And it must be very honest to say that this article was discriminatory. And we tried to correct this article with an amendment, as I said, an hour before the board began, the government or the coalition turned the law upside down. And why, when you have boasted that you have tabled an amendment to each article, we are to Article 2, of course, if the Law-Legal Service has broken your law. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on each article. Except for the transitional provisions, I think. And of course you had to remedy this inconsistencies and you just tabled amendments to all the articles. And that was, I must say, confusion. Now, you have mentioned or asked why we should not table an amendment, the same amendment as we have tabled to help the economy to help agriculture. And I will sincerely say that when we have prepared the amendments, we have overlooked that the conditions for the agricultural economies have been changed by your amendments, those fast amendments, and you, Mr Lisec, in public, I ask you whether we will also table an amendment to the agricultural field, that agricultural holdings are entitled to aid, if their fertiliser costs increase in 2022 compared to 2020 by 40%, but you will support this amendment. Because if you do, we'd love to put it in. But I'm afraid, given the experience of the past and the countless amendments we've been making to Sisyphus' work. So, once again, I urge you to identify yourself before the amendment of the potential amendment for the agricultural economies as well, and if you vote in favour, I would like to write it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lisec. Here you go. Then we have to apply. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Mr. Fox, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u222	Thank you. I'm not gonna use the replica, just like it happens too often in the National Assembly. I would only reply, although it was a very correct debate by my colleague Pavlič that if we wanted to table the amendment, we should have submitted it by the very beginning of this point, so that the amendments are no longer possible to be tabled. We wouldn't back the amendment about what we would or wouldn't. We believe that our proposal for a dictatorship, both Article 2 and Article 9, has been corrected that, as has already been said, the members of the coalition have already extended the accessibility and the conditions for granting aid to pardon the consequences of rising energy prices both in the field of economy and agriculture, so that we think it would not be any better, because there would always be a limit because then, if you or if you would invest in me like you for 2020, you might say a ha, why we did not propose for 2019, because perhaps even a better year, there are even higher energy prices now. [[Incomprehensible]] If you just look at, say, I don't know, the price of the oil judge or the price of electricity on the stock exchange, which was, for example, January 2019, which was in January 2022, there could always be debates about where the limits are, or whether it was financial or time. We've decided one thing, we insist on it. I was not in any way offended, I was just checking the facts, you had the opportunity to table amendments as well as the coalition, whether it was the substantive amendments or the amendments proposed by the Legal and Legislative Service. And yes, amendments are some kind of mix based on the Law and Law Service, which is always so regardless of which Government it is, and some of the substantive amendments themselves have been tabled and we have accepted them. I just wanted to point out that when it comes to how the law is not good again, you had the opportunity to open up another article in addition to Article 2, but you are not, and I am very sorry that if you have already tabled an amendment to Article 2, you would at least want it right to Article 9, but I respect your sincerity that you have forgotten and unfortunately we can do nothing here. It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and in particular. Anybody want to talk? I take it it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Moja žnidarič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. We have tabled these amendments to the coalition groups so that beekeepers too will receive this assistance without any special role being played. Therefore, it will be the same as for all operators of agricultural holdings, that the RS Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development will provide everyone with an information decision and then, if anything is wrong, the farmers and beekeepers will review and beekeepers can object. So it is very important that the way these aids can be provided both in the economy and in agriculture is as simple as possible. So if people, as has been said before, do not read all the measures that belong to them but do not, they will automatically get all the households, the economies, the automatic decision at home and only then will they check whether it is okay, whether they have to give or not an objection. I must say, however, that the economy also has a rather simple way of making a statement through FURS only until 15 April, so that they declare that their costs in this year will be more than 40% higher than they were in the previous year and then the FURS will also carry out the remit. So, I am really glad that neither citizens nor public servants will have any big extra work, but that these measures, which are approved to help agriculture and the economy, are being implemented in as simple and simple a way as possible. So, indeed, thanks in this place to both ministries, especially the Ministry of the Economy, which led this legislative process and really wide, very wide, also harmonised the law, as we heard last time on the committee, both with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, including all the other stakeholders and added what we all are, I think most Members have been looking for a kind of good month to find a solution, how to help all the accounting services, all those who have to issue balances now or up to 28. 2. and 31. 3. and also this content you have been prepared and prepared for us to be able to submit it with amendments, although in fact the Law-Legal Service has said that we are investing, that we are going too wide, that we have added some content that we should not have, but I must say that here we were really all Members united, that even if the way is not the right one, but it is the right solution and we have in fact also very broad support. So, at this point, I would also like to thank you for the constructive debate on Friday on the Committee and, as it is said, I am pleased that this law, even if some have said it is somewhat late, but that it is so widely coordinated, because there has been quite a bit of coordination, as we have heard, with the European Commission and other stakeholders, so that the amendments already adopted on the Committee on Friday have been greatly improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing yes, I'm asking for an application. Andrei Chernigoy has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u226	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear fellows and fellows! I myself will be pleased to support the Law on measures to mitigate the consequences of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture. I'm actually glad to be addressed [[?]] key problems with rising energy prices, and I hope that they will come, I believe they will come into the right hands of the economy and certain operators in agriculture. I support this, too, that, in fact, individual businesses, in the field of economy, will receive between €30 and €2 million of aid, and I believe that there will be more than 40,000 beneficiaries. This means that with this proposal of measures to mitigate the consequences, we will help a very wide range of people, or a very wide range of business entities, and I am pleased to do so. This means that we will make the economy even stronger and that, at least so I believe, the number of unemployed will also be further reduced and we will achieve even better results in the area of unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also important that we somehow extend the deadline for the payment of taxes on the income of legal persons. This deadline is extended for one month, until 30 April, and we have also listened to the pressures of the many accountants in which they took place at this particular time. What I am most happy about is that I still think this law is coming at the right time, but on the other hand, I am pleased that the ministry, especially, and after that also Members, we have found a common dialogue, we have somehow connected all the representatives of the economy, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who have welcomed the proposed amendments. That is why I can say that this law, the Law on Measures to mitigate the effects of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture, is good and will knock on the right door, so to speak, in the economy and agriculture. On the other hand, I am glad that beekeepers are also after last year's catastrophic flight, where there was almost no honey, the real honey collection was very bad, and there was no beekeeper, even somehow entitled to this aid. I wish this year's season to be better for the media, as beekeepers say, and as a result, I will support the Law on Measures to mitigate the effects of rising energy prices in the economy and agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Because nobody wants to discuss, I'm closing the debate. I'm putting 10e in the debate. Article, as well as the amendment of the LMŠ Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. Andrea Zabrett has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u228	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Yeah, I'd like to explain now the amendment we tabled in the LMSH is the new 10e. Article 1 Now why is he going? We know that the Committee on the Economy has adopted a new chapter on the extension of reporting deadlines and tax accounts for 2021. Now, we know that the work in accounting services, even in recent years, is all as simple as it has been since the outbreak has significantly increased the volume of work, not just that. The legislation was incredibly confusing, accepted back, administratively complicated, and the deadlines were too short, for which perhaps the Minister of Finance agreed. Now, the accountants were also the interpreters themselves, and all too often they had difficulty getting relevant information on how to implement a matter. In fact, the Minister himself admitted that certain information had been given too late at FURS. Now, these problems are faced with increased quarantines, then with hospitals, and so on, in the economy and also in the public sector. And in LMŠ and I, too, took my personal stand, and on January 18th, I also gave an initiative to the government to extend the deadline for the submission of reports, but it is true to the economy and the public sector. Now, this amendment, which was, or the whole chapter adopted on Friday on the Committee, is now in the LMŠ we are not quite sure whether this amendment is also true for persons of public law or entities of public law such as the whole public sector. And in the wake of the fact that this is indeed a clear definition, we have tabled today's amendment, which says it's called a new 10e. Article to add a new second sentence, which states that the regulation in the preceding sentence also applies to legal persons governed by public law. In fact, the explanation of these amendments, which have already been adopted, somehow indicates that they also apply to persons governed by public law, but this is not reflected in the article. And now, if the original article already covers this, then it will be great and we have achieved what we have also called for and we know that also in public institutions there are extremely serious problems and they are in distress they must submit public reports, balances and so on as the economic sector. So if we are here now, the Secretary of State and my colleague, I apologize, I regret that this also applies to the public sector, so that if this is true, I am satisfied and then this amendment is irrelevant. If it is not, it is intended to do so and it would then make sense that this amendment will also be supported by the vote tomorrow. Now, if I can somehow, if I'm allowed to explain this to me, then explain, I would also be happy to have an answer from a state or a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Simon Zajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Today before I went to this meeting, we checked again at the Ministry of Finance for your amendment, if what you're proposing with the amendment has already been taken into account. And we have been assured that the article was already written widely enough in its origin to capture everything. So let's not miss any specialty. And this dictatorship that the debtors who propose the report took everything in. So this was re-verified and the amendment after this verification to the MF is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. Boštjan Koražija has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u232	Thank you for explaining this to the Secretary of State. But I'm curious, is it, then, is it actually arranged that all these reports, which were now intended to be delivered by February 28th, will now be available by April 30th, if I understand? All right, great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Moja žnidarič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u234	Thank you very much. In fact, I also wanted to invite them not to do something wrong, since last year it was those who had to submit the balance sheets or this annual report by 28. 2. they're out, but it's true because we're 28. Two found some sort of solution and the deadline had already fallen. So I also wish to myself that in this dictatorship, as you say, everyone is covered, I wish I did not fail the public sector, because I also spoke to the authorities today, including the FURS gentleman who says, above all, I do not know the health institutions, and they all call and ask, whether they are also checking or not this extension. But perhaps the only thing we could have touched was what we had previously been told in one of the opposition's positions why we returned to this area, why we are not saving in tax legislation. I'd like to, or I have to say that I know, I hope you all know the procedure. In the National Assembly, there is now a law on the tax procedure in order. We cannot deal with this until we have concluded the Financial Administration Act. It is now in the final stage of the legislative process. When this is adopted, this law on the tax procedure will be adopted, where it is envisaged that these deadlines will also be permanently resolved. So there's no need for any particular deception, but since we don't know when this law will be passed, it can be done after 31. 3. or to find a solution a few days before the expiry of the deadline makes no sense, so I am very happy, as I said earlier, that the Ministry of the Economy has listened and included this content in this law, so that we can save ourselves from this account that the accounting services and the accountants really do take away from this constant pressure now. There has also been another deception in the public if we have already rejected this law in the coalition or whatever it was, because it is true that colleague Andreja has already begun to do so, but also now more than 14 days, three weeks, a month looking for solutions, and other coalition Members have been willing to support it. What did we reject? We only turned down the debate on the question of parliament. For the debate on the parliamentary issue on this subject, which was put to the Minister of Finance, would be held at the next regular meeting. So we'd be having a debate in mid-March about what to do doesn't make sense. That's all we turned down. But in the background, we have been looking all the time with all possible ministries also for solutions how, in which law to find and incorporate this solution as soon as possible, so that, as it is said, these accountants, accountants can breathe and work at some normal pace. Because it doesn't make sense to give some help to companies, and on the other hand, they pay a lot of fines because they won't report in time. Thank you all for helping us to save this area now in this intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u235	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting on Tuesday, 22. 2. 2022, this is tomorrow in the context of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Simon Zajc, to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members. Investments are one of the most important factors in promoting economic development for the national economy. With this bill before you, for the first time, we want to allow business to adapt as quickly and as easily as possible to digital and green transition requirements, which requires companies to develop new skills, innovation and sustainable investment in clean technologies. Secondly, to prevent the loss of competitiveness compared to other countries and third countries, to enable incentives for investment in research, development and innovation to both companies and various forms of business integration between themselves and knowledge institutions. With this law, we will be able to take advantage of all possibilities for granting state aid, for research, for the development of innovation under Regulation 651/2014/EU. At the same time, we are also creating a legal basis for individual notification of state aid schemes adapted to the needs of the Slovenian economy to the European Commission. The new Article 4a thus lays down the conditions for the award of incentives for research and development and innovation. This Article allows incentives to be granted after a call for proposals and on the basis of a direct application. The following conditions for obtaining incentives shall apply to the invitation to tender. The investment must be worth more than half a million euros; it must ensure that jobs are maintained; economic, financial, technical, spatial and technological viability of the investment must also be demonstrated. The investment must reach a certain number of evaluation points and the investment must not start before the application is submitted. However, the following conditions shall apply to the allocation of the incentive on the basis of a direct application. The economic, financial, technical, spatial and technological feasibility of the investment must be demonstrated, the investor also reaches a certain number of evaluation points, the investment must not start before the application is submitted, but must be worth more than EUR 2 million. The investment must be made through joint investment by at least three major economic investors and one small or medium-sized company or an organisation for research and dissemination of knowledge. However, the added value of the employee to a large company must be two years after the completion of the investment higher than before the submission of the application. Furthermore, the new Article 4b lays down the legal basis for individual notification of investments to the European Commission if the investment contributes to the accelerated reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from production and business processes, then the development of solutions for cleaner mobility, the transition to a circular economy, more efficient use of resources or the acceleration of digital transformation. Respected, the proposed reform of the law is essential, as the expanded opportunities for the allocation of investment incentives will help to further strengthen the scientific research, innovation, digital and green ecosystem. This fosters interconnection and leads to joint investment, risk sharing and more intensive international cooperation, as well as more breakthrough innovations and faster productivity growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u237	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Mojci Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! At its 44th urgent meeting on 18 February 2022, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Investment, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. At its 129th meeting, on 11 February 2022, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 15 February 2022 and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and, in particular, several articles. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology highlighted the main reasons for the submission of the bill and presented its main solutions. He stressed that investments are one of the most important factors in fostering the economic development of Slovenia and also consistent regional development. The aim of the bill is to prevent the loss of competitiveness compared to other countries and through incentives for investment in R & D and innovation, to ensure that businesses are adapted as quickly and as easily as possible to green transitions. He further presented in detail the key solutions envisaged in the proposal for a law, in particular the expanded definition of investments and decisions, the decision-making of the conditions for the award of incentives for research and development and innovation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion addressing in particular the need for greater clarity, precision and internal consistency of the bill. She explained that the amendments of the coalition groups followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance presented the opinion of the Commission and the reasons why the Commission supports the proposed law. Support for the bill was expressed in the debate, as investment in digitisation, research and development and innovation needs to be accelerated, while at the same time enabling economic operators to adapt as quickly as possible to the green transition. It was pointed out that the adoption of development investment legislation was delayed, as Slovenia was under the EU average in terms of investments and it also needed time to prepare large-scale investment projects. The view was expressed that there was an unjustified fear of foreign investors whose investments could provide a good leverage for the exploitation of Slovenia's untapped economic potential. It was also presented that the content of the proposed law represented a very small proportion of the investments planned by companies in Slovenia in the coming years. In accordance with Article 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments submitted by the SDS, NSI and NSI in particular to Articles 1, 4, 7, 9 and 13. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u239	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! About 2 months ago, at the 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted the New Law on the Promotion of Investments, which met the requirement for the acquisition of EUR 88 and a half million of non-refundable investment money from the Recovery and Resistance Plan. investment policy is an important part of an economic policy that has an important impact on economic policy decisions of aspirations and objectives. In developed economies, this is an integral part of the state intervention, which seeks to achieve the necessary level of economic growth, employment, high standard of living and a certain place in the world division of labour and international economic relations. Investment policy sets out the ratios between consumption and savings, sets out the economic development direction of the country, activities, sectors and projects that will have priority in encouraging. Choices of incentives and incentives for certain investment firms shall be determined and conditions provided for in order to enable and ensure the realisation of investment decisions shall be created. The bill under consideration provides for State incentives for investment in R & D and innovation. For businesses and different forms of business integration, as well as links between companies and development and research institutions. Among the objectives pursued by the proposal of the novel are, inter alia, the speediest and easier adaptation of enterprises to demand a green transition, which is conditioned by the development of new skills, innovation and sustainable investments in clean technologies. For this purpose, the national budget provides for expenditure for this year of 10 million and 150 000 euros for the coming year of 12 million and 300 000 euros, totalling 22 and a half million euros. The representative organisation of the Slovenian Economy of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia published information that the private sector intends to make investments of EUR 2 billion from this half into the green and digital transition in the years 2022 and 2023. With the amendments to the law that we are considering today, the country will support this by earning a percentage of the total value, because budget resources are simply too small. The existing amount of budgetary revenue does not allow for stronger state, financial intervention. In such circumstances, there is really no need for an excessive level of imagination to reflect on how such a situation coincides with current ideas on lowering the tax revenues of the state budget and how we are again and again the ones that cause the most damage to ourselves. A developed private equity economy must have a strong core infrastructure. It consists of major projects that are the precursor of trade and the market economy. Roads, railways, water supply, projects, general health insurance. Investments in our time are investments in expanding production potential in direct connection with environmental protection imperatives and digitalisation requirements. Their increase is an increase in labour capital equipment and the expected result is an increase in production or national income. The proposal provides for two procedures for awarding incentives on the basis of a call for proposals where the value of investment in R & D and innovation amounts to at least EUR 500 000 and retains at least the average number of employees and for R & D and innovation investments of at least EUR 2 million, which are considered to contribute significantly to the development of the Slovenian economy here, and incentives are allocated on the basis of a direct role. Members of the Desus Group will support the amendments and the addition of the Investment Promotion Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u241	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u242	Thank you, Vice President. When reading this more than 32 million hard marriage, one gets the feeling that we are a very environmentally advanced country. The proposal provides for financial measures to help companies develop further. It will encourage high technological equipment for businesses, the use of modern and green technologies, the development of new knowledge and technological solutions, and, finally, the creation of new, innovative products. The proposal is intended to target the transition to a low-carbon circular economy, reducing net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. However, climate neutrality must be achieved by 2050. It's still a list of this beautifully written text. Unfortunately, however, we cannot go beyond the questions about which Slovenian companies we are talking about. I certainly agree that we are naturally strong principles. I agree that there is an urgent need to do something in the area of perception of work as a value. I agree that there is a need to make changes that will help the development of businesses. If these investments also mean raising wages in a very short time, then this is another story. People are dissatisfied, especially with wages, and believe me, they care little about investments. Good and successful companies know that for their existence they must invest urgently both in people and in the development of the company. I strongly doubt that any of these successful Slovenian companies will have any of these 32 million. In order to keep the stallion again on the brink that existing companies need to take care of the environment, it will ultimately bring only the dissatisfaction of people who will be robbed again. Investments are certainly needed, but not headless, because I believe the European Union has begun to dictate the pace. Perhaps the designers of the proposal should get in the car and take a little ride through Slovenia. Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and believe that there are significantly different problems in rural and so-called industrial areas, as officials in Ljubljana think.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u244	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Respectable. We are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act. Amendments to the Investment Promotion Act, which is before us today, are important as it refers to additional possibilities for granting incentives to invest in investments that increase the productivity of the economy. In Slovenia, we have been facing productivity since 2009, which, as a result, means lower purchasing power of the people according to the average of the European Union. [[Incomprehensible]] To increase labour productivity, we need to increase investment activity, which primarily means investing in research and development, information technology, high added value activities, green transitions, investment in modern equipment. The key objective of the law before us is to ensure long-term productivity growth by achieving higher added value. Therefore, support is given to investment in research and development, as stated in innovation, job security with higher added value, an increase in added value to the employee, and, of course, environmental protection. There are two additional exceptions to the law. In order to allocate incentives for R & D investments and innovation, irrespective of the limits of the current provisions, if the investment meets the conditions that the investment value of more than EUR 500 000 is in processing, service or development research activities and that the minimum number of employees from the last year before the application is submitted is maintained. However, incentives may also be allocated to investments involving at least three investors, such as large enterprises, at least one small or medium-sized enterprise and a research or innovation cluster organisation, but in this case the value of the investment must be more than EUR 2 million in processing, service or development research activities. In the years 2022 and 2023 it will be intended for incentives, it will be earmarked for comprehensive funding, and companies from all over Slovenia will be eligible for them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of stimulating investment, so we support the amendments to the proposed Investment Promotion Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u245	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u246	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! As I know, this year's development incentives programme includes a completely new source of resources, namely the recovery and resilience plan. In this way, companies can expect to publish tenders totalling more than €400 million. However, it is essential that the projects co-financed by these funds under the recovery plan should be completed by 2026. This is why the Government is now amending the Investment Promotion Act for the second time in a short time, which was last amended only December last year, but there would be no need for a coherent adoption of proposals one after the other if the Government were to prepare and do what it should do in time. The recovery and resistance plan was adopted in April last year, almost a year ago. With this novelty, the government is significantly expanding the concept of investment and investment by means of an urgent procedure, which means that it has probably found that, with the existing definitions and definitions of investment for the purposes of incentives, it will not be able to draw on the sufficient resources available in the plan. This is probably also the reason why the conditions for allocation are much more volatile. Definitions of the concept of extension, extending the scope of eligible costs for co-financing and including sectors which are, for example, excluded from the area of eligibility for regional aid, such as the steel, coal, shipbuilding, synthetic fibres, the transport sector and related infrastructure, energy production and distribution, energy infrastructure. However, what this means on the other hand is, of course, questionable. What if these loose conditions cause anomalies and problems in other areas, such as environmental protection, water conservation, and the like? We must not overlook incentives for investment in R & D and innovation aimed both at companies and at different forms of business integration, where there can be no successful development without knowledge institutions, and it is important here that calls are timely, that tenders can be prepared in time and that they have sufficient time to implement, given the complexity of development investments. The categorical approach cannot provide good investment, in particular not more difficult, based on multi-annual development. Such investments, however, allow for faster development and competitiveness in the difficult market. There's something else I'd like to point out. So far, investment has always focused on investment to promote job creation, as this has made an important contribution to raising employment. Recently, however, the conditions for creating new jobs have been eliminated. However, we know that opening new jobs is the safest way to prevent or escape poverty. Therefore, we believe that the condition of creating new jobs in promoting investment needs to be maintained, but of course it is necessary to separate whether investment is necessary, since it is a matter of replacing obsolete equipment with technologically advanced equipment, we will, of course, need a higher professional cadre and, on the other hand, less need for a less skilled staff. However, when it comes to expanding activities with new investments, it is certainly a matter of increasing jobs with higher added value. We therefore expect that the government will do its utmost to ensure that the economy can benefit from the necessary calls to develop and promote the economy for priority purposes without unnecessary administrative obstacles. In the LMŠ Group, we will not oppose the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u248	All due respect, one fine evening. The proposed amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act are mainly technical in nature and are aimed at complementing the definition of investment and the conditions under which it can be eligible for public funding. These adjustments also follow the European orientation for green and digital investments, on which we are betting for recovery and resilience. To this end, the provisions relating to development investments eligible for co-financing shall be adapted in particular. The new Articles 4a and 4b are added to the Act, which will, of course, define clearly the conditions for co-financing investment in research, development and innovation in accordance with the adopted European Directive. They also receive their own special city. green investments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, cleaner mobility, more efficient resource use, circular economy and digital transformation of business processes. Additional Article 9 also contains at least minimum requirements for investors for permanent job conservation. This, in our view, is a step in the right direction, as one of the purposes of granting development subsidies is to create quality and sustainable jobs in the local environment. In doing so, we must point out that similar definitions have been included several times in our proposals to achieve that state aid is linked to job creation and retention. Such proposals have been rejected by the rulings so far, and we are pleased to have them considered as conditions at least where the European Union directives so require. This makes it clear that we are encouraging investments because of people and jobs and not just the profits of the company's owners. Your Honor! Significant public funding will be available for investments in green, sustainable and digitally. In addition, simply directing such an investment to businesses and people provides at least a fundamental opportunity for competitiveness in the future, and it is therefore important not only what we define as a public interest in private investment, but also how we implement measures to support them. It is important that, in addition to a clear legal definition, it is also concerned with the implementation of the law by achieving its purpose. Artists will have to be very careful to identify real projects and separate them from those that have only been painted in green and digital. While amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act follow the European Union's adopted framework for recovery and resilience, we support them in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u250	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. We support, of course, investment in innovation and research activities in the Left. Providing funding for education, science and research must be a priority for each government and every society. And investments in these three key areas must be at the heart of social development. It is necessary to provide the necessary public resources to remedy the development backlog and to restore the well-deserved and indispensable reputation and autonomy to all those involved in the teaching process, since only through stable systemic funding can we allow the long-term development of research organisations. It should be noted that we are in favour of a development model in Levi, which will not leave the hands of this private capital and corporations in fact. We must maintain and develop democratic control over all the effects of new technologies that include issues of privacy, autonomy and human dignity. We must use the technological revolution to improve the well-being of all people, and we must not allow it to be capitalised or used by capital and private interests to increase the exploitation of workers and workers, profits and inequalities. If we want real development, the country must take over the Slovenian economy and maintain it without corruption, with strong legal protection of workers and promotion of good practices. In fact, it is not by subsidising those companies which, under the pretext of a green transition and without any actual solutions or commitments by technologically less polluted economic and agricultural industries, come to these subsidies. Such companies, which deserve these subsidies or should also be eligible, should be under the democratic control of the State. And if the current government were actually committed to the promises it is promoting in the present bill, it would exponentially increase financing for development and technology within public institutions. It should also develop a national technological development plan with clear priorities and objectives, which the Slovenian economy would then upgrade to a personal and quality product, digital or otherwise. Science would thus again become a building block of Slovenian economic development. However, science has little in common with this government proposal, as it continues to commercialise knowledge and create patent cultures and the marketing of private interest, but this time with this law currently subsidised by the State. For already Slovenia is becoming a source of cheap and labour-free for the needs of foreign capital and will become a place where, or already more developed countries can move dirty, dangerous or otherwise unwanted production, polluting the natural environment and resources, such as fracking. [[Incomprehensible]] We must also stress the many researchers and researchers who live in existential and professional uncertainty because they almost never know whether they will be able to secure funding for the next few years, months of projects. They may not even specialize in the field at times because they simply have to do what they get by doing this or that project. This breaks down their specializations and careers. It produces shallow knowledge and false professional authority. In particular, fundamental research is at stake because it does not have continuity and is consistent and does not guarantee the identification of any or no national research authority. Unfortunately, the government law or the bill of law of this process does not stop, but it does not just provide a huge sum of money to businesses without empowering workers and providing them with normal working conditions and normal wages that could actually develop local economic activity. Economic growth alone will not solve these fundamental problems, because we need a fundamental social change. The central guide must be that economic growth itself is not a goal, but an economy must be a means of ensuring a good and full life for workers and workers and is a citizen and a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u251	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u252	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed choir! Christian Democrats are aware that currently the biggest challenge of the Slovenian economy is focused on the issue of productivity. Despite many good results in other indicators on productivity, Slovenia has been lagging behind the average of the European Union for about a fifth of the time, as the Office of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly reminded us of for macroeconomic analysis. A higher standard, higher wages and development levels at country level, such as Austria and Germany, will not be achieved otherwise than by increasing productivity. Therefore, there will be a need to create an environment in which the economy can create greater added value. The proposal for a law promoting incentives for investment in R & D and innovation aims to increase productivity as the main challenge of our economy. Behind the law, we want to enable businesses to adapt green transition requirements as quickly as possible and as easily as possible and to prevent the company from losing its competitiveness compared to other countries. For this reason, the proposal provides incentives for investment in R & D and innovation both for businesses and for different forms of business integration between themselves and knowledge institutions. Among the key changes brought by the bill are the activation of all possibilities for granting state aid for research, development and innovation and the expansion of the definition of investment. This will also enable investments to be made in research, development, innovation and therefore will also benefit staff, instrument and equipment depreciation, amortisation of buildings and land, contractual research, patents and, for example, overheads. While national incentives are not in line with the New Slovenia programme, Christian Democrats are not a key tool for improving our business environment, yet the proposal for a law in this area is a welcome move towards a goal of greater productivity. The proposal also refers to the promotion of green investments defined by Christian Democrats as investments that pursue the objective of preserving creation and responsible management of natural goods. The future will be on the part of countries that will be able to create an environment conducive to investment and will properly target significant public and private resources for R & D. In New Slovenia, we have therefore long stressed the importance of investing in research, the development of innovation, the rights to spend the grant on R & D and innovation are planned at EUR 25 million for 2022 and EUR 25 million for 2023. We stress, however, that public funds must be adequately combined with private investment. This raises the issue of systemic incentives for institutional investors, which is already the subject of another law. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Promotion Act will better address the issue of productivity in the future, as this is also a condition for higher wages and higher standards, we will unanimously support the proposal by the Christian Democrats in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u254	Your Honor! In December, we adopted a law on a proposal from the Government to enable the use of resources from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. The legislation adopted allowed for the promotion of investments in sustainable green transition and digital transformation. In doing so, however, the Government has overlooked the need to make investment possible for investment in research, development and innovation. It is precisely the new technologies that will enable a permanent green transition without research that cannot be created. The draft text of the amendment states that, on the basis of a survey by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, it has been found that companies do not intend to invest in development, research, innovation, and therefore such investments should be encouraged by State financial assistance. At the same time, they note that the European Union's leading innovators invest three times as much in research and innovation as in Slovenia. And how is it possible that the Slovenian Government only came to know this today, and that it did not know this in December, given the fact that the Government's representatives received all the information they received from the European Union's Presidency, which was also due to the frequency meetings abroad. For a survey of the domestic market carried out by the GZS, they also had the resources from March of the previous year, so we can rightly ask ourselves whether the government representatives used a number of business routes for the benefit of Slovenia or only to meet and travel to exotic destinations at the expense of the taxpayer's money. Let us remind ourselves of EXPO in Dubai, which was just about to present innovation and development, which leads countries to actual implementation of the transition to green, sustainable and digital. The late government novelty brings the activation of all possible State aid allocations for research, development and innovation. In addition, the definition of investment is expanded and eligible investment costs include staff costs, instrument depreciation, building and land equipment, contractual research, patents and overheads. Investments worth more than half a million euros will be explored by the Spirit public agency, while investments worth more than two million will be decided by the Ministry of Economy on the basis of direct applications. We are aware that without a strong and strong economy, there is no social state, no higher wages and no higher pensions. Investments are one of the driving forces and the most important factors when we talk about economic growth. It is the duty of the State to promote investment in all available ways and with all possible mechanisms, but it is changing over time what investments are given priority at a certain point. We hope that investments that will receive monetary incentives under the present law will, however, be adequately distributed so that the productivity of the Slovenian economy on this basis will be truly strengthened in the long term. We will not oppose the proposal of the SAB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The views of the parliamentary group will be presented in concrete terms by the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u256	Thank you for your words, Vice-President, nice greeting, Secretary of State, Member of Parliament and Members, and also a nice welcome. Today, we are deciding on a proposal for an investment promotion law that seeks to encourage high capital intensive, highly productive, innovative and green transitions to targeted investment by companies, with the financial assistance of the country, thereby strengthening the productivity of the Slovenian economy in the long term. The objectives are to adapt businesses as quickly as possible to digital transition requirements and to avoid loss of competitiveness, which requires companies to develop new knowledge, innovation and sustainable investment in clean technologies. The measures contained in the proposal for a law that follows substantively the strategic documents for increasing productivity will contribute to the following: achieving higher value added of products and services in Slovenian exports and increasing the positioning of Slovenian companies in global value chains, achieving more competitive business orientations on global markets, providing jobs with higher added value and increasing the quality of those products, creating conditions for the development and employment of the best staff, raising the added value of employees throughout the Slovenian economy, placing Slovenia on a global map as a developing and innovative country, low-carbon circular economy, sustainable use of natural resources and maintaining a healthy natural environment. State investment incentives to R & D and innovation firms will primarily help to implement such investments by companies that will be able to generate higher added value to an employee within a certain period of time after the investment is carried out through greater returns, responsible treatment of resources, even taking into account the principles of re-use. The proposed measures give a clear signal that it will only financially promote sustainable and green-oriented high-productive investments in companies and thus change business models and processes to more ambitious and environmentally responsible ones. The Slovenian economy has never faced such extraordinary transformation requirements as it is today. Companies are geared towards developing systems and components that support the arrival into electricity mobility to accelerate digital transformation of production and business processes and green business all of this requires additional investment. For a breakthrough between countries that represent a top development and productive environment that attracts talent and investment, we need to take an active approach to establishing a comprehensive system of incentives for investment. The increased opportunities for the allocation of investment incentives identified by the amendment of the law will thus help to further strengthen the scientific research innovation digital and green ecosystem, which promotes interconnection and leads to joint investment in risk sharing and more intensive international cooperation. In the Group of Members, we will definitely support the proposal for a law in line with the informed amendments and additions to the Investment Promotion Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. No amendments have been tabled. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended draft law were not tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. A decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 22 in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 2. 2022, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law amending the Health Inspection Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. To France Vindisar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, honourable Members. The Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the body of the Ministry responsible for health, is headed by the Chief Health Inspector. In accordance with current legislation, the Chief Medical Inspector shall be appointed a doctor who is a specialist in preventive health care or hygiene, epidemiology or occupational medicine who has at least 11 years of work experience. In amending the Health Inspection Act, it is proposed to delete Article 4 which lays down the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector, namely the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector, the provisions of the Inspection Act will apply from now on. That law provides that the inspection shall be carried out by the Chief Inspector, who shall represent the Inspectorate, organise and coordinate the work of the inspectors and shall, within the framework of his powers, be responsible for the legality, quality and efficiency of the work. This proposal is a simplification of the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Inspector with other inspectorates who control the legitimate implementation of the rules in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with their competences. In addition to simplifying the conditions for appointment, the proposed amendment is also appropriate in view of the need for a wider systemic knowledge of the functioning of the inspection bodies. At the time of the outbreak of the infectious disease Covid-19 played a key role in the control of government measures to control that infectious disease. In addition, he took up coordination and joint reports for this task for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Health Inspectorate shall cooperate in its work with other administrative authorities and organisations, health institutions of other professional organisations and other public institutions, in particular those working in the field of human protection. The current Health Inspection Act for the designation of institutions providing professional support for the implementation of inspection controls uses outdated designations. Therefore, we want to align the names with Article 23 of the Health Action Act. The Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Regional Health Care Institute are thus replaced by the National Institute for Public Health and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. The proposed amendment to the law aligns the amount of prescribed fines imposed by health inspectors with the provisions of the Inspection Control Act. In this way, it will be ensured that similar offences will be punished with equal fines. At the same time, the proposed amendment also aligns the monetary currency in which the fines are prescribed, i.e. the currency is converted from tolars into euro. Since the bill on amendments to the Health Inspection Act for less difficult amendments and additions to the law is being considered, we propose that the amendment be adopted in a reduced procedure. The amendment of the Health Inspection Act is also necessary in view of the fact that, after almost one year of temporary supervision of the inspectorate, we ensure proper management, which is essential for the successful and efficient work of the health inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u259	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u260	At its 17th session, on 17 February 2022, the Health Committee considered a proposal for a law amending the Health Inspection Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments were not tabled until 11 February 2022. An additional explanation was provided by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health on behalf of the applicant. He pointed out that the health inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia was a body composed of the Ministry of Health, headed by the Chief Health Inspector. Under the current legislation, the Chief Inspector is appointed a doctor who is a specialist in preventive health care and has at least 11 years of work experience. In amending the Health Inspection Act, it is proposed to delete Article 4 which lays down the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector. In order to ensure that the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector is now subject to the provisions of the Inspection Control Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service, in a written opinion, made comments to the draft law on the derogations from the constitutionally defined general 15-day deadline, which was not justified in the draft law. The opinion of the Council of State is that the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons in the debate highlighted the deletion of Article 4, which is now a valid law setting out the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector. In relation to the proposed amendment, concern was expressed regarding the possible negative impact on the provision of a sufficiently high level of professional work, the Chief Inspectorate of Health, since it is reasonable that those tasks could only be adequately carried out by a person with experience and a good knowledge of the area whose control is within the competence of such an important body. The current legislation provides that only a person with adequate experience and education, i.e. a specialist in preventive health care, may be appointed as the Chief Medical Inspector and has at least 11 years of work experience. However, in the draft law under consideration, the necessary professional competences are, of course, being reduced accordingly. Despite the concerns raised in the debate, the Commission has, of course, expressed its support for this. The debate pointed out that last year the government resolved the Chief Health Inspector and appointed a new one, proposing amendments to the Health Inspection Act. It raises the question of the necessary skills and competences to be met by candidates for such an important job, or by whom the government wants to appoint to this place. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u262	All in attendance, Your Honor. The law provides for a uniformity of conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector. The proposal is good as it is to comply with the arrangements for the appointment of the Chief Inspectors who are already in force under the Inspection Control Act in the framework of other inspection services in the country. It is therefore a matter of simplifying the conditions for the meeting of comparable jobs in public administration. Why is there another exception to health care? It is a single system of public administration, so let the condition be the same for everyone. The health department warns itself too many times and wants to step away from the uniform rules. Such an approach creates conflicts between public officials themselves within the public administration system and causes dissatisfaction with other parts of the public sector. The whole public sector is important and we cannot constantly give priority to the health sector. Because of the high value of health among people, doctors and other health workers are often weakened by their demands. Of course it's a specific job, but a specific job is also the work of a police officer, an inspector, a fireman, a soldier, not least, if you like, a mining inspector. Each is an important article in the chain that our system can operate smoothly and professionally, so it is right that uniform rules apply. If I touch another educational system, there should be a uniformity of conditions. Exceptional students may be enrolled in each course of the study, except for medical studies. Again, an exception that only applies to future doctors. Why? If we can have extraordinary students in every other direction, then why is there an exception to medical school? This too should be regulated or simplified. I'm talking about enrolling in undergraduate studies, not going through colleges later. With such a signal, the study takes precedence over certain students at the start, since it is considered something special. Each study should be accessible to anyone on a regular basis or an extraordinary student. Let the professors do their selection later. However, the fact that rules restrict access to a particular study is in our opinion and is not in line with the system we have decided on. Such changes could also be used in the long term to repair the mania of doctors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u264	We will not support the unconnected Members' Group and Members of the bill. It is true that, by deleting Article 4, which lays down the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector, the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector will be aligned with the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Inspector under the conditions laid down by the Inspection Control Act. However, we note that there is nothing wrong with the fact that the law in force imposes higher conditions on the Chief Inspector than the system law. It is estimated that it makes sense for a health inspector to lead an individual or an individual with experience and good knowledge of the field or profession. According to the current legislation, a person who is a specialist in preventive health care, such as hygiene, epidemiology or medicine, may be appointed as a health inspector and has at least 11 years of work experience. We estimate that the intention of the proposers to amend this law is certainly somewhere else, that is to say, far from the government's statements in the present text. For more than six months, we have been following up on the complications of the appointment of the Chief Medical Inspectorate. During last year, the government dismissed the Chief Medical Inspector and appointed or appointed the Acting Officer, proposing amendments to the Health Inspection Act. Minister of Health, Janez Poklukar is Chief Health Inspector Eva Compan named last April, but this appointment was illegal, as demonstrated by the supervision of the Public Sector Inspectorate after having received a complaint for irregularities in her appointment. In the course of the supervision, the Inspectorate found that Companova did not have the right education for this town and that the Minister did not carry out the competition procedure, but appointed Companovo under his authority. She was not a doctor, she had no experience and was appointed by the minister for trust, which is in the state administration of her kind to the refugees, since the minister can appoint only members of his cabinet for trust and the remaining public servants must be elected to the public tender. Shortly after Companova was forced to leave the post of Chief Inspector, the Government appointed an epidemiologist at the New York National Institute of Public Health to serve as Chief Medical Inspector. She even admitted that she did not know the structure and the work of the inspectorate at all, or she did not have contact with the employees, as she transferred all the powers of the chairman immediately after her appointment to Companovo. Presentation of the inspectorate, coordination of tasks, management, organisation and direction of the work of the heads of regional units, signing of all documents, including financial. In fact, the health inspectorate is now headed by a straw chief inspector or acting officer. The latter is not unusual for this government, as the current Minister of Justice has in the past been a serialally strawed director of companies purchased by homeless people for one euro or in financial investigations for tax evasion and even in criminal proceedings for abuse of management position and counterfeiting of business documents. As you know, only 6 months can lead the body. The government should therefore appoint a new chief inspector by 22 January of this year. The government has been late for almost 30 days by appointment. Why? Because she's waiting for this law to be passed and she's going to appoint Companova to this place. Which means that today we are deciding on a law that could be briefly called lex Compan, because its main purpose is to adapt the conditions for appointment to a specific position in the state administration to the conditions that a specific person wants to occupy. Such political recruitment in Slovenia is not a criminal act, nor is corruption in the narrow sense of the word, as defined by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. But we still believe that this marriage [[sign for the end of the debate]] represents an act of political corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the guests from the Ministry. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent a proposal for amendments to the Health Inspection Act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and has proposed that, due to less difficult changes, the law be adopted in a reduced procedure. With this amendment, the Government proposes the deletion of Article 4 of the existing law, which lays down the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector, which means that in future the provisions of the Inspection Act will apply to the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector, who is the body of the Ministry responsible for health. This aims to harmonise the conditions for the meeting of comparable jobs in public administration. The arrangements for institutions providing professional support for the implementation of inspection are also being coordinated, namely the National Institute for Public Health and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. The proposed amendment to the ZZDRI shall also harmonise the monetary currency in which the fines are prescribed, i.e. they shall be prescribed in euro and their amount in accordance with the Inspection Control Act. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The position of the Marjan Šarca Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u268	In fact, there is one more step ahead of us that this government has decided, in fact, to be able to breathe by the end of the last day, by 24 April, if it succeeds and if the government lasts for a long time, it will do so about a month after that government, which is to keep its people going. Only my own. All well and good, but you always have to ask yourself if this has any consequences. Of course he does. Especially in the most sensitive areas, and this is in the field of health. Medical inspection, surveillance, when you actually control what everyone's really afraid of. Who goes to a doctor today or who goes to a health institution today to essentially defend and argue and seek their right. Nobody. Because everyone's afraid. They're going to the people who are going to help them. No matter how many mistakes they make or anything. That's why we need an inspector. When the epidemic has occurred, in these two years, we need professional people who will control who will know. And despite knowledge, there were, of course, different and wrong interpretations. The government imagined it in their own way, and the inspection saw something else, so I don't talk about all the other actors. And now this government of this inspector, who will lead the inspectorate, who had to have 11 years of work experience in various areas, very broad areas, and these rules of the game did not come up with a policy, but were determined by this same profession, which today proposes to simply simplify and reduce into those hands as other inspectors do. I'm sorry, the work of the inspectors, everyone, it's not the same. But it's not a professional thing. It's not even about, I'll say, standard enforcement. It's not even about fixing tolars in euros. It's not even about regulating other views, as far as the National Laboratory and the NIJZ are concerned, it's only about one thing. That's to put your man up. So shameless and so much and actually they're not embarrassed to do it anymore. Of course, if you ask the government, it will never answer. They read the text that they write to them, and they put up with those five, ten minutes, and we go, and the so-called democracy will do its part. If that's what politics does, I'd understand, but that's what the profession does, in the name of the profession, well, that's what I'm afraid of. Because there are no more obstacles here. Because then anything can happen. That is why in the LMŠ Group such a shameless proposal in all the actions of the illegal appointment of the Chief Inspector who took place, and only two weeks before the introduction of the same law, the affair was revealed, as it was made, by the profession, not by the politics which sits in a political dress. That is why, of course, we will not adopt this proposal in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u270	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, all hailed! The social democrats of the law, who are briefly said to be suspicious, cannot, of course, be supported. We cannot support a law that tries in some way to legalise the situation back when there was an important body that should have done important work in improving the management of COVID-19, in some way headed. Not only did the competent government inspection authorities find last year that the appointment of a former director of this inspectorate was illegal. Do you know what they wrote? She was inexperienced and without formal education. And how did the government react? She named her duty officer, but she was crushed. The perpetrator of the duties has already granted all the powers of the person designated by the inspection body of the same Government as inappropriate, inappropriate education, inappropriate experience. And then you wonder why you're so unsuccessful in controlling the epidemic. If it weren't for that background, it would be a simple question. What are those professional reasons that the criteria that the profession once established are appropriate for someone to lead this inspection body, what are the professional reasons that a person no longer needs to meet? In view of the background, the sexual background, as well as the issue, is no longer there. It's just a soft attempt at something to settle before these governments are done, but also in this way it's impossible to wash dirt. Therefore, of course, we do not support SD activities like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The Group of the Left is on the move, but I can see that there is none in the Chamber. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u272	Dear President, Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! In Novi Slovenija, we will adopt the Law on Amendments to the Health Inspection Act, which repeals the special regime applicable to the appointment of the Chief Health Inspector, the condition of specialisation in preventive health activities and support at least 11 years of work experience. From now on, general arrangements as laid down by the Inspection Control Act will apply and apply to other similar bodies. The current arrangements are thus replaced by the conditions set out in point B2 of Annex 2, as you have all looked at, and this is the official position of the Regulation on internal organisation, job systematisation and titles in public administration bodies and in judicial bodies. These provide that a position of head of an authority consisting of more than 50 working places may be performed by a person with a second grade of title, a condition for this is university or high professional education with a second degree specialisation or Master’s degree and seven years of working experience. The arrangements for institutions providing professional support for the implementation of inspection are therefore in line with the Health Act and therefore the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the district health care institutions are replaced by the national Institute for Public Health and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. Today's fines are set in euro instead of in tolars, although we have almost EUR for more than 20 years, and their height is aligned with the law on inspection so that similar offences are punished with the same amount of fine. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The Inspection Act lays down the conditions for appointment to the post of inspector, referring to the conditions laid down in the law governing the system of public servants and the rules governing the internal organisation and systematisation of public administrations. The current Health Inspection Act also lays down specific conditions for the appointment of a Chief Medical Inspector to be a doctor. With the proposed amendment, the Government would like to delete the provision of the Health Inspection Act, after which a doctor specialist is appointed as Chief Health Inspector in preventive health activities with at least 11 years of work experience. How did this idea come about? Minister of Health Janez Poklukar appointed a person for the Chief Inspector at the Health Inspectorate last year, but the appointment was illegal because of non-compliance with those conditions. Then he's in this place like a v.d. The chief inspector came second, but the first person still has all the management powers after reporting to the media. The representative of the Union of State Authorities said that this person was de facto performing tasks as if he were leading a health inspectorate, as he was also walking through regional units, finding, criticising, ordering. So again the government prefers to deal with health problems by employing our own right in all areas, in all cities. In the SAB, when we appointed Minister Poklukar, we expressed great hopes, hopes that our healthcare will lead to a path of accessibility, quality and health well-being. But the current health situation is even worse, especially in accessibility to health services, which is one of the critical points of our health system. We expected the Minister to be significantly more than just following the government's non-resistible practices and adapting legislation in order to justify the illegal appointment of personnel, including the main health inspectors. Monitoring the quality of medical treatment is of paramount importance and, at all pressures, the continuation of the healthcare system cannot simply allow the control of this to be taken over by a person without medical experience without adequate education. Politicalisation of health care, in particular on the basis of quality, is unacceptable. The health of each individual is first of all for the SAB, so we must strive for effective solutions that will bring appropriate organisational, human and wage policies to doctors and health professionals. However, effective public health services are available to citizens and citizens under the same conditions, without long waiting periods. We will not support your proposal, Members of the SAB, in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law amending the Health Inspection Act is now being considered following a reduced procedure, as it introduces only minor amendments, which are deleted from the current text in Article 4. This Article now lays down the conditions for the appointment of a Chief Health Inspector. Upon deletion of this provision, the current provisions of the Inspection Act, which also applies to other similar bodies, will be established in the future with regard to the appointment of the Chief Medical Inspector. In accordance with the Inspection Control Act, the inspection is carried out by the Chief Inspector or the Chief Inspector representing the Inspectorate. It shall organise and coordinate the work of inspectors and, within its powers, shall be responsible for the legality, quality and efficiency of the inspection work. The Health Inspectorate shall cooperate in its work with other administrative authorities and organisations, health institutions, other professional organisations and other public institutions, in particular those working in the field of human health protection. In order to harmonise the designation of institutions providing professional support to the health inspectorate in carrying out the inspection, by means of the names referred to in Article 23 of the Health Act, the proposal introduces an amendment to the introduction of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, to the National Institute for Public Health. However, the indication of the district health authorities shall be replaced by the reference to the national laboratory for health, environment and food. A correction of the currency with which fines are prescribed is proposed. These will be mentioned in euros, as they have been still mentioned in tolars, since the last amendment to the law was adopted in 2006, just before the introduction of the new currency in Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposed solutions and we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on deceased and invalidity insurance within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members, with first signed by Joseph Horvat. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u278	Dear Sir, Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Mateja Ribic, with her co-worker, dear colleagues. We may have before us the last novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, in this reference to the National Assembly. We prepared the novel in the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group, in accordance with the coalition protocol, then aligned the text with the SDS Members and in particular, and we also listened to the DeSUS Members of the Group. What are the main solutions? The proposal provides solutions for as many as six groups of pension recipients and disability benefits. Firstly, fathers who want to apply an additional dose percentage due to child care. Parents, or parents, who took care of one or more children born or adopted at the time of the active age and thus received parental benefits, may apply an additional dose percentage at the time of retirement. In practice, there are cases where a woman does not qualify for the right to an early retirement or disability pension, and a man cannot enforce this right under the applicable law because he did not receive a parental allowance because she took care of the child. The solution, what's the solution? The proposal allows a man to apply an additional dose percentage due to the care of children when meeting the conditions for obtaining an early retirement or disability pension, if a woman does not meet the conditions for obtaining an early retirement or disability pension and therefore agrees, I stress the agreement, which we understand as a special guardian. Second group of recipients of widowed and family pensions who obtained the right after a deceased farmer for a narrower range of rights before 1.1. 2021. What's the solution? The proposal allows a new dose of widow’s, widow’s and family’s pensions to those who were before 1. 1. 2021 awarded pension entitlement by a farmer for a narrower range of rights that would be entitled to a higher pension if he did not die in accordance with PIZ-2h. Users themselves must apply for a new dose at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. If they do so within six months of the date of application of this Act, the new dose shall be due to them from the date of application of this Act from the first day of the following month following the submission of the request. Third group, recipients of widow's and family's pensions and disability benefits acquired before 1 May 2021. A solution? Therefore, according to the proposal, widows' and family pensions and disability benefits shall be re-evaluated on an official basis, taking into account higher amounts, lower early old age and invalidity pensions from ZPIZ-2i. The fourth group, rural insurers, is largely insured for a narrower range of rights that have reached a full retirement age. A solution? The proposal sets out the new amount of the lowest pension for rural insured persons for a narrower range of full-age pension rights, at the same level as the minimum disability pension (41% of the lowest pension base, currently EUR 388), which will later be harmonised in the same way as pensions. Users themselves must apply for a new dose at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. If they do so within six months of the entry into force of the law, their new dose shall be from the date of application of this law, or from the first day of the following month following the submission of the application. Group five, invalids. Implementation of regular coordination. Disability is very low, as they do not regularly comply with pensions and other benefits. Since 2013, they have only once been extremely coordinated, namely [[sign for the end of the debate]] in 2019. Sixth group, pension beneficiaries and beneficiaries of disability benefits, co-financing of recreational, sports and cultural activities within organisations. The legal basis for co-financing of the promotion and implementation of recreational and sports and cultural activities of pensioners and compensations is established [[sign for the end of the debate]] Disability insurance in the framework of disability and pension organisations. Colleagues and colleagues, the financial impact of this law is about €20 million, says €20 million each year. That's essentially the amount that we want to sort of correct the wrongs. However, we are not simply able to correct all the injustices that have taken place over a long period of time. I recommend support and thank all those who have supported the law on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Tadeji Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. At its 72nd emergency meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, with the first signed by Joseph Horvat. The College of the President of the National Assembly confirmed the procedure. The Committee was provided with material published on the website of the National Assembly. The Committee was attended by a representative of the proposaler Jožef Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Matej Ribič, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, representative of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Agricultural and Economic Chambers of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer presented a proposal for a law and a representative of the Government presented the opinion of the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system from a legislative technical point of view. Her representative, in her introduction, pointed out, inter alia, that the drafters wished to amend the Law with six separate, interconnected sets containing different materials. As a result, the established system of pension and disability insurance becomes unclear, incomprehensible and opaque, in violation of the principle of legal predictability and legal certainty. It noted that the proposed solutions were not in line with the basic concepts of STIZ-2, which also meant an infringement of the rule of law and explained that certain proposed solutions, in particular the chapter of the transitional decisions, raised the issue of compliance with the general principle of equality before the law. She further commented on the individual article of the bill and on the amendments tabled, where she pointed out that only to a lesser extent the views of the PSC were followed and that only the comments of the editorial nature were taken into account. Special attention was paid to the amendment for a new Article 3a, which warned that it was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with its fifth paragraph being also retroactive and the amendment to Article 6, where it pointed out the inequality between farmers, as they are already in the current system in a privileged position. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee felt that pensions in Slovenia were too low, so that many could not be survived. They explained that [[?]] The OECD has begun to warn Slovenia about the urgency of reform in order to ensure long-term sustainability of pension registers. During the list of reports, they also suggested simplifying the rules, as the system is too complex for people to understand. They also welcomed the increase in the amount of the guaranteed pension for persons who are a major part of their insurance age, complementary [[?]] to a narrower extent, to maintain the relationship between pension recipients, depending on their extent, and to regulate the right to an additional dose percentage for a man, unless a woman fulfils the conditions for obtaining the right to an early retirement or invalidity pension, subject to the consent of a woman. The discussion was also held on Article 3 of the proposal for a law laying the groundwork for the implementation of a public call for co-financing of recreational and cultural activities organised by representative disability organisations for disabled persons and associations and organisations organised at national level representing the interests of pensioners and pensioners. In this regard, the Director-General of the Institute for Disability and Pension Insurance explained that the financing depends on the financial plan of the PSIZ, which [[sign for the end of the debate]] The National Assembly doesn't accept. He also presented his position to the President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which undermines the bill. The Committee has adopted amendments to the Coalition's Group of Members and all articles, and a proposal is prepared on this basis. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the following conclusion: "The Committee for Work, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons [[sign for the end of the debate]] proposes to the National Assembly that the Legislative and Legal Service draw up an official consolidated text of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act.« Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u281	Thank you very much. An explanation of the Government's opinion will be presented by State Secretary Matej Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u282	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. You have before you a bill establishing solutions for several groups of insured or pension beneficiaries and regulating the legal basis for the allocation of funds for recreational, sports, cultural activities of pensioners and disabled workers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal of the law, as it advocates the pursuit of fairness in the treatment of all employees of the pension and disability insurance system. The proposed solutions shall address the right to an additional dose percentage for a man, unless a woman has exercised the right to an early, old or invalid pension under the condition of a woman's consent. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers such a solution to be reasonable and follows the explanations, allowing for the application of an additional dose percentage for a man when a woman does not fulfil the conditions, even when she has not yet exercised the right to an early, old or invalid pension. In practice, this establishes the basic purpose of the right to compensate for the lack of opportunity to increase pensions during the active period of one of the parents and the possibility of using options in both parents, which will allow for the most favourable solution. With regard to the proposal to establish equality of rights for the beneficiaries of widow and family pensions in relation to old, premature, diminutive [[?]] and invalidity pensions The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that a widow’s or family pension, which has been awarded from a pension which has been affected by a narrower amount of insurance under Article 11 of STIZ 83, in the light of the provision of a fairer rate, must be treated in the same way, despite the fact that the right is exercised. Thus, recognition of a new pension is also granted to the beneficiary of a widow’s or family pension made after the pension of the deceased. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also agrees that it is possible to ensure adequate equality with the proposal to ensure the implementation of a new dose of widow's and family pensions and disability benefits granted to beneficiaries of early, old or invalid pension under Article 39 of STIZ 2. On the basis of the provisions of the proposed law, individuals who have carried out agricultural activities who have completed pension periods of the same amount as the prescribed amount of pensionable age without a sum to obtain the right to a retirement pension at a lower age may be entitled, while the bulk of the insurance period has been secured for a higher level of entitlements, the pension has been re-measured and paid at least in the amount equal to the amount of the lowest invalidity pension. This amount will also provide the basis for a new dose of widow's and family's pensions derived from individual pensions. This is a measure that will improve the social situation of individuals also in relation to social protection rights. The establishment of a legal legal basis for co-financing, promotion and implementation of recreational, sports and cultural activities of pensioners and disabled persons shall provide an adequate legal basis for the payment of funds on the basis of which a public invitation to tender for the allocation of funds may be reinstated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, in accordance with the financial plan and the general acts. The bill was adopted on 17. 2. 2022 addressed to the committee responsible in the National Assembly, at which all the amendments tabled by the coalition Members in the original text were adopted. They shall, inter alia, be governed by the method of regular coordination of invalids who have not been coordinated since December 2012, with the exception of the only exceptional harmonisation of January 2019 and the way in which the proportional part of the disability is administered, and the two articles of the original proposal, which became irrelevant by the adoption of the ZPIZ-2K in September 2021, are deleted. Finally, let me stress that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose amendments as well. [[sign for the end of the debate]] , as they provide higher social security to exposed categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! Ten years ago, the last major reform of the pension system in our country was adopted. Since then, we have received a number of a partial complement and changes to the existing system, but most often without serious consideration that the sustainability and stability of the pension cash flow is on the long lines, and reckless and these interventions can dilute this sustainability if they do not even jeopardise it. Thus, in the last ten years, we have introduced social remedies into the basic pension law for the most vulnerable groups of pensioners. Some of these changes, especially the rise in the lowest pensions, were necessary and it is right that they have occurred. But we all need to think together about how we will deal with future changes, because there is a feeling that the current political set does not hope to cut into a system that is in growing trouble. Therefore, the next Government will have to reactivate at least the medium-term stability of the pension system. In the Group of Non-Related Members, the amendments and additions that are before us today will not be opposed, we will support them, and it is responsible to draw attention to some objective facts related to the pension system that will burden our future and, above all, the future of future pensioners and pensioners. The view will soon have to cut longer than the next election. Many international organisations such as the OECD and the UMAR remind us in their findings that the material situation of the elderly in us is worse than in the EU average than in the workforce. At the time of retirement, the income position of the individual has deteriorated and some social corrections of the pension system have therefore been needed in recent years, crucially with the novel we are adopting today. UMAR also notes that the lowest pensions are mainly due to a shorter retirement period. The following conclusion is that the retirement age of younger insured persons is reduced from 50 years of age, resulting in lower pensions for individuals who will have a shorter retirement period when the age is fulfilled and consequently lower pensions. It is important for Slovenia to start a more comprehensive pension reform as soon as possible in order to ensure long-term financial sustainability. And the fact is that partial interventions into pension legislation did not include parameter sustainability. As soon as the country is ready for a more comprehensive demographic picture, this reform will be more gradual and less painful. Above all, there seems to be a major problem if there is no more thorough intervention in the system, public expenditure on pensions projected for rapid ageing and low retirement age will increase rapidly in the coming decades. We need to encourage people to work longer and to prepare such a reform so that the system will bring sustainable and at the same time allow for a decent standard of living. Those who care about a decent pension also care about the stability and sustainability of the pension system. And we need to talk today about the relationship between the economic and the solidarity function of pensions. For this reason, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are modest in beating someone's chest with today's preliminary work of the pension law, improving the situation, because the real work in the future is still ahead, and because the responsible and visionary authorities also think about future generations of pensioners, the fact is known who will humble themselves in 20 years will be out of the current cash register in the unaltered state or with only partial social adjustments to survive unless substantial changes are introduced. So it's important that we get to work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u286	Your Honor! In the SDS Group, we are all in favour of the most vulnerable groups in our society. In particular, for a group of pensioners with very low pensions and those who in the past have in one way or another been denied the right to receive a pension in the amount that enables them to live in dignity. Despite my efforts to improve the status of all groups of pensioners, it should be noted that several pensions are still too low at the age of 40 and all other pension conditions are met. In this government and coalition, we are working very hard to make the pension system and thus the situation of these people better. In addition, as a social state with social groups, we help those with the lowest pensions, but we must not forget that the pension is not a social benefit, but the money that the pensioners themselves earned with their past work in different forms, so all these groups of pensioners deserve that their past work is properly recognised and properly evaluated. This government is constantly working on improvements in the status of pensioners, wherever inequalities and anomalies appear in the pension system. To this end, we are co-signers in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which addresses or improves the status and wrongs of the following vulnerable groups. First time. Regulation of the position of insured persons who have been voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance already under the previous applicable legislation and who have continued to do so after the adoption of the ZPIZ-2 until the first termination of the insurance and provided that the contributions have been paid. Another time. Regulation of the right to an additional dose percentage for a man if the woman does not fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to an early retirement or disability pension, subject to the consent of the woman. Third time. Equalization of rights for recipients of widow's and family's pensions. Fourth time. New doses of widow's and family's pensions and compensation from disability insurance. Fifth. New doses of minimum pensions for insured persons who have carried out agricultural activities and have completed the full pension period. Six. Establishing a legal basis for co-financing the promotion and implementation of recreational, sports and cultural activities for pensioners and pensioners. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the amended law addresses the current problems of the groups mentioned above and adequately addresses them. We are especially aware that the words are too small, that people cannot live out of it, and that it is not enough to listen to their problems but to solve them. This government and the coalition are doing just that, and also by this law, they are proving how it is necessary to resolve the hardships and injustices committed by some individuals before, and whether it is farmers' pensions, widows' pensions, or invalids' pensions, or old retirements in general. It should also be noted that we are also saving by law the injustices that have been committed to rural pensioners. This marriage proposal is also supported by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which has been working for many years to properly regulate the level of the lowest pensioners who have been insured for a limited period of time and who have completed the pension age in the same amount as the prescribed pension period without a sum to obtain the right to a retirement pension at the lowest age. In the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, they consider the proposed solution to be appropriate and, at the same time, fair, as it maintains the relationship between pension recipients according to the extent of their insurance. In view of all the above, I would like to reiterate that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, this bill has also been very much supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u288	Thank you, Chairman. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Today we will decide on the Novela of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which would correct certain anomalies in the pension system and improve the situation for some groups of already retired or future pensioners. This is the thirteenth draft of amendments to the pension law in this mandate, of which only four amendments to the Act have been adopted in the last year alone. As the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out in its opinion. I quote: "Frequent amendments to the rules have a negative impact on the stability of the law and thus threaten legal certainty and confidence in the law, its determination and predictability. In this regard, there are cases of new novelties following a new law after a very short period of time. As a result of the frequent change of regulations, there is a risk that not only citizens of current law do not know enough because they do not even have time to get to know them, but they do not know them enough to implement them directly, which threatens legal certainty." End of story. Today we have before us a proposal for a new law, which, among other things, complements the two recently adopted amendments to the law. This reintroduces partial measures into the pension system to amend recently adopted laws. All of this suggests that pension insurance needs to be changed gradually, with discretion, because otherwise we can create new injustices. We have been working in the LMŠ since the beginning of our operations to improve the situation of all groups of the population, especially the most vulnerable. During the time of our government, we have taken measures and changes in the pension field with due consideration and introduced them gradually, in the context of social dialogue, while ensuring that we do not cause unjustified inequalities among people. We have also constantly warned about this. We believe that the preparation of a comprehensive pension reform based on appropriate calculations and analyses, trends and in cooperation with all relevant social groups will be necessary in the future instead of partial interventions. We also committed ourselves to this in our programme. For the good functioning of the pension system, continuous monitoring, analysis and completion of the system are essential to enable the survival of the generations to which it is intended and those to come after them. What is important is not only the survival of the system, which is linked to financial sustainability, but, above all, that it provides a decent life for those to whom the system is intended. In the LMŠ we are in favour of a comprehensive pension reform that would ensure the stability and long-term sustainability of the pension system and thus a decent pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State and co-worker, welcome. The social democrats will be a novelty of the law that has been passed before us, as this law improves the position of the four categories of people who have difficulty. To say immediately about those who listen to us, they are not the amounts that allow for a comfortable life, these are not amounts that are comparable to some other amounts that are accepted in this National Assembly, but are improvements. The law is therefore worthy of support. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is simply not right to intimidate people with the pension system, which is going to happen in the future, but it is quite fair to say. The higher the wages in this country, the safer the pension system will be. Thanks to the system of contributions we have, we would do the most for pensions if we raised wages so that people who are able to live better and easier during their working life. And secondly, I must say here, our regret on the part of the Social Democrats that the National Assembly has not been able to achieve the consensus it will achieve today when we have discussed our proposal, that is to say that we are proposing to help those with a disability pension. These are 25,000 and every year from the system because the system doesn't work, 500 to 800 people fly away. 500 to 800 people who would help them if they accepted a change in the PIZ that would lead people to the system, which would allow the recognition of occupational disability. We did not like the view at the time that the law did not say that we should go to work in another law, because such a position was contrary to the position of the Minister of Health, who directed us to change the ZPIZ. However, we are approaching the elections, so it is inappropriate to introduce any new laws in the truth, nor is it possible to have some thorough debate in this place by giving the Social Democrat the commitment that one of the first things we want and will insist that they be regulated in the next term is to regulate occupational disability in order to ensure that 25,000 people who have been deprived of this right will be returned and also that no additional 500 to 800 people will be injured each year. But once again, the law before us will be supported because it helps four categories of people and it is right to help them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Tadej Šuštar Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u292	Thanks again for saying that. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats last summer, together with coalition partners in the National Assembly, tabled a bill amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance. The amendments concern six groups of pension beneficiaries. Firstly, fathers who want to apply an additional dose percentage due to child care. Under the current legislation, one of the parents who has taken care of one or more children during the active period may be entitled to compensation when he retires to take care of the children. In most cases, care for children has been taken over by mothers who have also received parental compensation. Therefore, most mothers are entitled to a retirement pension due to the care of their children. They may retire before or apply an additional dose percentage. However, some mothers never or much later reach the conditions for retirement as their husbands, because a large majority of the active age took care of children and did not join the labour market or for a short period of time alone. We therefore propose that the application of an additional dose percentage due to the care of children may be transferred to the father if the mother agrees. In such cases, a husband’s pension can be the only income that both parents have. Secondly, recipients of widow's and family's pensions, who receive a pension from a farmer's insurance company for a narrower range of rights. We will allow widows and children of deceased farmers to receive a new dose of widow’s or family’s pension. As the pension of some farm insurance companies would increase in line with the amendment of the ZPIZ-2H, which started to apply on 1 January 2021, widows and family pensions resulting from them are raised accordingly. Thirdly, recipients of widow's and family's pensions and disability benefits retired before 1 May 2021. With the change in PIZ-2I, the amounts of the lowest early age and invalidity pension were raised. However, according to these amounts, no compensation from disability insurance and family and widow's pensions, which were granted before 1 May 2021, was re-measured. As a result, according to the higher amounts of pensions, widow's and family's pensions and disability benefits will be re-measured in accordance with the previous versions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Fourthly, peasants with the lowest pensions who are 40 years old. We propose that farmers who have been secured for a narrower range of rights who have reached a full retirement age increase their pension from the current EUR 279.56 to EUR 388.54, which is almost EUR 110 more than they have received now. From now on, these lowest pension farmers will be coordinated in the same way as pensions. Five, disabled beneficiaries. Disability benefits are very low and are not regularly coordinated, so we propose that, from 1 January 2022 onwards, invalidity allowances are regularly coordinated in the same way as the aid and service allowance is coordinated in accordance with the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households. Six, all pensioners and beneficiaries of disability benefits. We establish a legal basis for co-financing the promotion and implementation of recreational, sports and cultural activities for beneficiaries of pensions and disability benefits within the framework of disability and pension organisations. Justice between generations is governed by an intergenerational contract and a pension. [[sign for the end of the debate]] It is necessary to strike a balance between pension from pension insurance, retirement age and pension. Retirement must be fair and adequate. Those who have worked their whole lives must live a decent and independent life in the fall. Those who have paid more in pension pay have a higher pension, as we have different amounts of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Whoever raised the kids has to have children for that. [[sign for the end of the debate]] higher pension. The beneficiaries of disability insurance must ensure a decent life. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we believe that these changes will help a more just society and will improve the position of those with the lowest pensions, so we will unanimously support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable. It is undeniable that pensioners have paid dearly for the crisis, of which almost 10 years have passed, through austerity measures, which they also had to take on their shoulders in the form of unconstitutional interventions in the amount of individual pensions. The Public Finance Balance Act and the pension reform with changes in the rate scale reached the social status of pensioners at the end of 2012. If we add a few more years (from 2015 to 2010) to break the coordination of pensions, it is crystal clear to us why many pensioners have slipped below the poverty threshold, from which there is no way out to date. Since the financial crisis in 2012 and 2013, almost 10 years have passed. Those days weren't easy. They were marked by difficult decisions and an unsustainable financial situation that could plunge us into bankruptcy at any time. However, we managed to stabilise the financial system and create the conditions for relaunching the Slovenian economy and consequently improve the material situation of pensioners. But the path to maintaining surpluses and reducing public debt has been crossed by the current crisis. Although this pensioner did not hit her pockets, it is right to correct the injustices committed to pensioners in the past to the greatest extent possible. Even in the SAB, we have always taken the stand to stop saving on pensioners. Let me remind you that in the time of our government, despite the worst crisis, pensions have been extremely aligned. Even in recent years, we have managed in the SAB with individual proposals to improve the situation of pensioners from an increase in the pension rate to the provision of free cross-border transport by buses and trains across Slovenia. Safe and free mobility of the elderly must become a carefree age standard in Slovenia. The new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is before us today, also means improving the material situation of the elderly, in particular the recipients of widow's and family's pensions and disability benefits. The fact is that the highest risk of poverty in us is precisely these widow's pensions in women who live alone in their own household and their pensions do not even reach the level of financial social assistance. Therefore, in the SAB we support these solutions that try to make life easier. We support the proposal of the novel in spite of the serious concerns expressed at the time of its consideration at the home work body. In doing so, it is important to draw attention to the broad picture of the pension system, which we all need to be well aware of when it comes to amending legislation. The fact is that demographic change is here, and this must also be adapted to existing systems. We need to create opportunities and opportunities for the quality life of all generations and decent ageing. With the change in the age structure of the population and the rise in expenditure on pensions and health at the same time as the rise in precarious forms of employment, which consequently means reduced inflows, we will, without adequate [[?]] The change of the system will no longer be possible to maintain funding and the system. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The pension system, which is basically an insurance system, is gaining ever stronger social status, which is clearly reflected in the novelties of the past few years. [[Incomprehensible]] Partial interventions into such complex legislation as pension legislation mean a weakening of it. Therefore, the new strategy, which will lead to an integrated restoration of the pension system and its sustainability, is inevitable. For there are times before us when it is necessary [[sign for the end of the debate]] sound investment in green investments in health [[?]] At the same time, to save up so that we can repay the enormous additional debt that the current government has earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u295	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. Years ago, when new pension legislation was adopted, we expected it to best address all categories of beneficiaries according to the law governing pension and disability insurance. Somewhere between one change and another, it seems that the very importance of the pension has been forgotten. This is a regular monthly allowance based on pension and disability insurance and provides the beneficiary with material and social security in the event of the death, disability or death of the insured. The aim is therefore to provide pensioners with material and social security. This is precisely why today’s consideration of the novel of the law on pension and disability insurance is necessary, as it eliminates some anomalies that have prevented some elderly people from caring. We are also improving the situation for persons who have been materially threatened with disability or loss of their property. One of the solutions discussed on a number of occasions is the regulation of the situation of insured persons who were voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance under previous legislation and which lasted after 1. 1. 2013 We also wanted to regulate this matter in this novel, but since the introduction of the novel under consideration to date this solution has already been regulated in the novel ZPIZ-2K and is therefore deleted from this novel. This novel also solves one of the situations in the case of child care. For men, it is possible for them to establish an additional percentage for children in the calculation of the pension base if the mother does not meet the conditions for early retirement, age or disability, and if the mother agrees. One of the very long-awaited solutions also relates to the equalisation of the rights exercised by other or individual farmers with united farmers when they paid contributions to pension and disability insurance from the basis considered to be a wider scope of entitlements. With 1. 1. 2021 The legal basis for a new pension for users of old, early, partial and invalid pensions has been established, for example when the insured person, who would otherwise belong to the new dose, died. Therefore, we allow for a new amount of pensions for those widowed and widowed and family pensioners who were ahead of them. 1. 2021 awarded pension rights by an insured person who would otherwise be entitled to a higher pension if he still lived. Furthermore, since the existing pension scheme does not take into account the determination of the basis for the assessment of the widow’s or family pension and the assessment of the disability benefit, the amendment regulates situations in which the deceased would be provided with the sums of the minimum early age and invalidity or pension provided to the pensioner, assuming that he is still alive, in such a way as to ensure that the pension is received to the recipient [[?]] widow's or family's pensions after them make it possible to improve the situation and the new amount of pension. And we're making another very important improvement. To farmers who will be measured against their pension by taking into account the gravity of the insurance for a shorter period and who have completed 40 years of retirement, the pension will be measured without taking into account the provisions on the minimum pension base. The payment of such a pension will be linked to the level of the lowest invalid pension that currently amounts to [[sign for the end of the debate]] a good EUR 400, which will then be coordinated in the same way as pensions. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will be supported in particular by the Group of Members, since we have also been co-signers or co-sponsors of the proposal for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Branko Simonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The pension system in the Republic of Slovenia has a very long tradition and is firmly placed in the entire social security system as one of the key subsystems providing safe age. In the Desus Group, we believe that the pension system in Slovenia has in the past offered successful responses to broader social changes. The 14th consecutive novelty of the pension law, marked already by point N, represents another departure from what was adopted by the reform in 2012, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of the pension register. In the course of the amendments to the reforms adopted at the time, most of the amendments adopted so far have already significantly deviated from the principles, solutions and objectives of the reform originally drawn up. The answer to what this means for the content of the coming new reform has unfortunately become a side effect in the introduction of a multitude of proposals, since the pension law was opened with the aim of correcting thousands and one injustice that would happen to the insured or pensioners. But is that true? It could be generalized that any change in the law would not be just a pensioner, which of the social groups wronged the other. This is, of course, best felt in the field of the social state, because we are the people most sensitive to this. This last novel, which I have the opportunity to address in Parliament in this composition, will correct some of the anomalies resulting from previous interventions, with the aim of improving the situation of several more groups who have already retired, as well as those who will retire. This allowed the application of an additional dose percentage due to the care of the children to the father, that is, the male insured person, if the mother does not meet the conditions for early retirement or disability, and if she agrees to such a solution. The next group to be proposed is the recipients of widow's and family's pensions, in which the amount of this pension was affected by insurance for the narrower scope of the rights under the previous legislation. In all cases where the insured person before him would be subject to a new higher dose in accordance with the equalisation of the insurer for a wider scope of rights, he has already passed away. A new minimum pension amount of 41 per cent of the lowest pension base will be decided upon by the proposal for all farmers insured for a narrower range of entitlements that have reached full retirement age, which would later be harmonised in the same way as pensions. The beneficiaries of disability benefits and family and widow's pensions, which were granted rights to these recipients before the entry into force of the pension novel entered into force on 1 May last year, when the new higher amount of the pension was secured and the lowest pension. A very important solution, which was long awaited by the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, is the co-financing of sports recreational and cultural activities organised for their members by the Retirement Society and the Disabled Society. Of course, such projects, which have already been funded and implemented by the Institute for Retirement and Disability Insurance, will be re-targeted to the common good of society, as they are intended in the past to actively promote social contacts and preserve the health of the generation of seniors. Members of the Desus Group will support this amendment of the PIZ unanimously. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u300	Nice greetings to all present. It would be hard to find someone who wouldn't want to enjoy an adequate pension at an old age. In recent years, we have witnessed quite a number of different ways in which people wanted to ensure that they would be provided at an old age. Because of a number of laws in the past, their desire to do so has broken. The proposed law thus proposes a solution for 5 groups of insured persons, but it is commendable that the right to an additional dose percentage for a man is finally regulated if the woman does not meet the conditions for obtaining the right to an early retirement or disability pension. In order to redefine the minimum pensions for insured persons who have carried out an agricultural activity and have completed a full pension period. Next. In the past, it was often forgotten that in the end, peasant women were condemned to life and to the welfare of others. All their lives, they worked hard on the farm, cared for their family, and had only a few hundred euros in pensions after their death. Believe me, these women never thought of murmuring or asking for help. It is right that at least a little work is being done, something that has been pointed out for years and years. I think we should start thinking seriously about the day centres for pensioners as well. I don't mean intergenerational centers that offer different education and workshops, but centers where pensioners can share words and drink a glass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u301	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please also take this provision into account. Now, first he gets the word "proposer," Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u302	Thank you very much again, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you all very much for having explicitly expressed your support for this law. I'm glad you understood what our purpose was. Thank you to all who have also formed this law, to the coalition partners of SDS, in particular, as I have already told colleagues from the DeSUS Group and, of course, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Institute for Pension and Disabled Insurance and, of course, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Thank you, everyone. As far as the amendments are concerned. In most cases they are of a nominal nature and Article 7 is deleted because the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance does not consider them necessary. In order to enforce a disability pension, it is not a retirement period without a sum, but a pension period alone. This means that the dose of the invalidity pension of the novel ZPIZ-2k cannot be affected and its addition in this novel is not necessary. Perhaps at this point just briefly, if you allow me, Mr Vice President, some interesting information. We've done a lot for the pensioners in these two years. All together. From December 2020 to February, until this month, this is said to be 14 months around, pensions to pensioners rise by 10.3% to 13%, depending, of course, on the year of retirement. The guaranteed pension will increase by 17,63 % over the same period. Now we're going to three groups. First time. For those who have retired by 31 December 2010, we have the following coordination percentages. 2 % extraordinary, 2.5 % on a regular basis, 3.5 % additional and 4.4 % on a regular basis this month. The second group is those who retired from 1 January to 31 December 2011. 2% extraordinary coordination, 2.5% regular, 1.7% additional, 4.4% regular, i.e. a total of 11%. And the third group is those who have retired since 1 January 2012. For this group we have 2% extraordinary harmonisation, 2.5% regular, 1.1% additional and 4.4% regular harmonisation, totaling 10.3%. The pension granted prior to extraordinary harmonisation was 555.76 euros in December 2020 and 586.88 euros in December and 581 euros in January. Now ZPIZ-2i has risen from €581 to €620, which is 6.7%. However, account is taken of 1 % after ZPIZ-2l to 626.2 euros and the alignment of 4.4 % to 653.75 euros. In total, the guaranteed pension rose by 17,63 % during that period. These numbers are interesting and, as we say, we are grateful to all of you colleagues and colleagues who have contributed your, yes, voice because the voice counts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and in particular. Anybody want a word? Anyone else? Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am very pleased that, despite all the obstacles, we have managed to achieve this mandate, especially in the last two years. First of all, I would like to point out from the pensioners' area the increase in the guaranteed pension from the 530 at the time to the 620 euros, which today is aligned with EUR 653. It was one big injustice to the pensioners fixed, I'm not gonna say it's over. Poverty among pensioners is still very severe. But it was repaired and slightly addressed by this poverty with a given rise. Unfortunately, in the same package, we failed to raise the lowest pensions that people receive in this country. After the new lowest pension after all the last reconciliations, it still does not reach even 300 euros. The task that awaits this National Assembly of Donkeys after the April elections is to establish the minimum pension rate at least to the minimum cost of living. These were calculated a few years ago, they were not harmonised, at the time the number was 442 euros, if they were recalculated, if they were fixed for inflation, they would get a significantly higher figure and this should be that pension bottom, together they should aim to ensure that no pensioner is left in poverty at his old age. But why I applied to the word and the debate on this amendment is another success, another injustice that we were able to undo and is connected with today's amendment, this is the resolution of the situation of self-payers in the pension register after 2013 when the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was amended under the tactics of the then government of Janez Janša, after which their payments to the pension allowance from the pocket were no longer valid. These were the people who paid for their pension or for their retirement, who were in a jobless situation, but because the state did not inform them of their existence, neither the Ministry nor the Treasury, nor anyone else, that the Institute of Self-Payment, after which they gave money for their safe age, continued to pay. And then we move on. But that money that they gave to the pension fund for their old age didn't count as nothing, and it didn't count anywhere. This is one injustice that we have been able to undo, and because of this interference in pension legislation, several thousand people are substantially affected by the situation. Some have been given years in which they can exercise the right to a guaranteed full-time pension that I was talking about, and again others can normally retire. Unfortunately, after a subsequent review, it turned out that the beneficiaries of the invalidity pension may have remained outside of this amendment, and we wanted to help them too, so we turned to New Slovenia as the proponent of this law, agreed to include the correction in their package of amendments and were inclined to do so, but we did not change everything, but at the working body of the National Assembly, after the testimony of Mr Pope, who was in charge of the pension fund, it proved that this disability pension bond was in itself not a retirement period without a sum, which would require subsequent regulation of the articles of the law, so that this correction was not even necessary, but we support the amendments and also, in principle, the content of this law. We will always be on the side of social rights and safe age, you know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Moja žnidarič, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u306	Thank you for your word. Yes, I can agree that in this mandate we have already eliminated a number of anomalies for those who have been buying together for years, or those who have voluntarily paid for their contributions. Personally, I am also very pleased that in one of these laws, we have also arranged for Zpizov to equalize the amount of disability benefits and also disability pensions for the disabled, both for the workers and for the unemployed. PPIZ's legislation has distinguished for more than 20 years between people who were employed or unemployed on the day of the disability commission. And the unemployed had 20% lower disability benefits and then, of course, later disability pensions, depending on the category they received. I also managed to convince the Ministry of Labour at that time that we also corrected this in one of the amendments. One thing remained open, which bothered me all the time and I hope and I want it to remain for the next term, which is part of the widow's pensions. These were already 25% of the widow's pension years ago, and then, I think, the ZUJF reduced them to 15% of the widow's pension. So these amounts are really extremely low and they remain an open matter for the next term, because we cannot handle everything in this mandate. Now, just for a little while, to say three more things from this novel, we're saving more. Some things are minor changes, but they really bring a lot to the pensioners. It is very important for us in the countryside, however, there are still very many women who have been home-housewives who will never have a pension, who have no pension conditions so that fathers can now apply these extra percentages to their children, so give a new role and have a new calculation of these additional percentages for children. So far, it has not been possible in the current legislation because it is written, so that the one who enforced the parental allowance or in the first year took care of the child. This improvement in this novel, which has been addressed today, is very important. Then, of course, for all widows, widows, whose insured persons or whose wives had this guaranteed pension, and only after that was not calculated a widow's pension from that amount, i.e. EUR 620 guaranteed pension, but from the actual pension base of the insured, which was usually lower, so that these things are also being corrected. And the third thing is farmers. I am also very happy that this matter is being resolved, so that farmers who have paid for 40 years, but even though for a smaller scale, in this case they have paid only pension periods, have no other rights, no hospital, and so that if they have paid 40 years, they will not have, as it were today's calculations, until the entry into force of this novel, only have a really good less than EUR 300 pension, but that they will be equal to the lowest disability pension, which today amounts to just over EUR 400. Of course, we are all aware that the pension register is primarily an insurance box. However, we have already included a considerable part of the solidarity work with our contributions, it must be sustainable, which is certain, and it is also true that, I do not know, it is not a pension from the one who has worked 15 years equal to the pension of the one who has worked for 40 years. So there are some relationships. But as I say, I am proud that, in this mandate, we have indeed made some very fair improvements, together with our joint powers, with the laws of the Member States or with government laws. So thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Eva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u308	Thank you so much for saying that. When we touch pensions, we must be interested in what we have done in this mandate or, finally, what else do we want to do? I must say that one such area in pensions is very important to me is widow's pensions. It is very difficult to be sure when two people live together for the rest of their lives and then one remains alone and with a lower pension that actually makes it impossible for a normal life in the countryside. We've had a lot of phone calls in the past. I called a thematic session myself, I think two years ago, three, on the subject of widow's pensions. In fact, when they are left alone with a pension of 600, 700 euros, when they pay rent and practically have only one hundred, two hundred euros left for a living, because when you are older, you also have to pay for some medicines that are not on this list. So I must say that from this point of view, the ministry, as well as you, the fellow Members of the SDS and the Specific, as well as Desus, understood the need to look at the area of widow's pensions, but not. In such a way that the recipients of widowed and family pensions, who also receive pensions through a farmer for a narrower scope of rights, are allowed widows and children of farmers' pensions to receive a new dose of widow’s or family pension. As the pension of some farm insurance companies would increase in line with the amendment of the ZPIZ-2H, which started to apply on 1 January 2021, widows and family pensions resulting from them are raised accordingly. It is certainly not some high pension, nor a family pension, but it is extremely important for those who live on it, including family pension, as far as children are concerned, perhaps even underage, schooling. It seems to me that this sensitivity, sensitivity to widows is the right way for all of us. Or widowers. That they need to listen most almost. Because they are easy to cope with this loss already placed on some kind of hardship, on some other rank, with which they must face themselves personally, but not, and it is certainly here that widow's pension, which perhaps in some way will be partially solved, even though no one can call back. In short, I welcome the fact that we have decided to take a step forward in this area, and I am sure, and I will go myself to the fact that this is not the last step, there is still much to do on widow's pensions. There is still a lot to do to be able to say that widow's pensions are comparable to any other system in the European Union. That's why I've been trying for years, and this fight remains. I guess we're going one step at a time, but it's the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Now, if anyone else wanted to, I suggest you focus on the amendment, not on, I would say, global regulation. Anyone else want a word? He does not want to, so I am closing the debate on Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and in particular. Anybody want a word? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3a and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and in particular. Anybody want a word here? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and in particular. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and in particular. Anybody want to talk? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and in particular. Anybody want to talk? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the NSI, SDS and concrete parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word here? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the State Border Surveillance Act within the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to Dr. Bož Zadalič, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Illegal state border crossings are a fact. And only the good and devoted work of the police and the military can thank you for reducing these illegal passages from year to year. However, the security situation in Europe and at its edge is uncertain, so it is expected that these pressures on the state border can also start to increase in the future. Slovenia has a particular responsibility in this regard, because it does not defend, not only protects Slovenia's borders, but also the borders of the European Union, the Schengen border. And of course, if we want to be successful, local roads, local roads and other infrastructure are more burdened. There was damage to the municipalities, which they had to make up for in large part. And the novelty of the law before you today, which you will decide, provides the legal basis for the partial reimbursement of the costs to the municipalities due to the increased control of the state border. Article 9a provides the basis for the cost of the renewal of the investment maintenance of municipal roads and public roads, the costs of illumination of municipal roads and public roads and all other costs to municipalities due to these more intensive patrols, patrols and protections. The calculation of the reimbursement of part of the costs takes into account the length of the national border in the area of the municipality, the burden factor of the municipality, for which the number of inhabitants of the municipality is taken into account, the number of illegal crossings in the municipality, the number of border crossings on state roads in the municipality and any other categories affecting the loading factor, and of course all other circumstances contributing to the fact that the infrastructure is significantly more burdensome. 9.b Article is provided for unforeseen events, for partial reimbursement of the costs of unforeseen events, such as that of something similar to that of 2015, when there was great pressure on borders when migration centres and similar matters had to be imposed, and this article resolves these matters. Since the congregations were heavily burdened, we prepared this law. And I appeal to the Members to support it by helping non-criminal municipalities that are not guilty of the illegal crossings of the state border. Of course, this also leads to a better and better quality of life for citizens in these congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u311	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent labour force. The presentation of the report of the Committee will be presented or carried out by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u312	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 64th emergency meeting at Valentine's Day 15. This year, 2nd year, the National Labour Authority considered the proposal for a law supplementing the State Border Control Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The representative of the applicant explained in the introduction that this is a compensation resulting from the additional tasks being carried out, in particular for the regulation of roads and lighting and some other costs which are indirectly and directly linked to this and that it is, therefore, a fair compensation which is not fully covered by this law. Most of the panellists supported the proposal, as well as the State Council, with regard to the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative noted that they had no specific comments and that the relevant solutions were covered by the law. Finally, the proposaler also warned about the date, since this was the only place where there was a slightly more debate. This is because it is the date of 15 November that it was chosen because it is the Ministry of Budget Year and that it is also possible to implement it in the current financial year. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together, as there were no amendments and they were adopted by 12 votes to four. Given that no amendments have been adopted, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed law in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u313	Thank you very much. A presentation of the views of the members of the groups is next. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u314	Again, thank you for your word. The law provides fair compensation for those municipalities with additional costs due to pressure from migration. In view of the developments in our immediate and slightly more distant surroundings, it is realistic to expect that gradual pressures will increase again, as well as the practical end of the pandemic, which has largely hampered more mass migration in the last two years. All of this means, of course, that these challenges need to be further prepared and those which, due to the additional tasks incurred by them, for the sake of protection and all the measures necessary to control the state border, suffer some harm, so that I can reimburse them as much as possible. The bill is appropriate from this point of view and we certainly support it. I can only say that it was also extremely nice to listen for the first time to the debate on illegal migration on the committee I am leading, because I remember five years ago when I debated myself I was all but human. Today, this position, which is practically advocated by all present, is the government's position, it is the need to protect borders, that borders must be protected and that everything must be done to ensure that all those who are in any way exposed to these procedures do not suffer any additional harm. These challenges will remain, they will be very likely to be present for a long time, so the law in this respect is timely, appropriate and united in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Mr. Secretary of State, colleague, colleagues. At LMŠ, we feel that people’s problems at the southern border must certainly be taken very seriously. The migration crisis in 2015 has left consequences there, the presence of the police and the military at the border, and despite the need to do so, still has a major impact on people's daily lives. In addition, road and other infrastructures are more burdensome and difficult to maintain and restore by border congregations themselves. The obligation of the State to help them to do so is so indisputable. But it is an amazing coincidence that such laws as this one come directly before the elections, even though the hole in the asphalt and the scattered Polish routes are not from yesterday. However, there is no expensive electricity, no gas since yesterday, and people have to pay high bills from across the country, and the help of the country will come just before the vote. We warn, however, that the government is still shivering at at least one if not at both eyes when it comes to problems due to border fences. The inhabitants there continue to point to the broken areas of the fence surrounding them. As far as I know, the Ministry of the Interior publishes in the tenders and looks for contractors the situation that the Government in the field vividly describes the Mayor of the Municipality of Kostel just those days has sent a letter to the National Assembly bordering with the entire wire fence no one cleans. The crops are no longer visible during the summer months because the rise has grown the coast from the inside and its fences, where, due to the border band, there is no access. The border belt is an intransient real mayor of the transition of potential migrants can't even be seen and here it is possible to agree with the mayors. If the municipalities themselves had the opportunity to clean up these areas, this would certainly not have happened because they have an interest both because of their people at the border and because of the tourism that is vital to these places. Of course, the congregations are also expecting help from the State in the event that this might happen. The same was true in the past with garbage accumulated on the migration routes and no one wanted to collect it. The municipal companies were warned because no one would pay them these costs, so the previous Government, under the leadership of Marjan Sarca, ordered the Minister of the Environment to cover the costs of collecting these municipal waste. That is also the case, or the current Government is still following this practice at this point in time, but I certainly do not know this is the only way. Local communities can best care for the lives of people in their environment, and where this is necessary and expected to help, we will not, of course, oppose national co-financing of infrastructure management in border areas in the LME. However, I would like to point out a broader picture of the irregular situation in areas along the southern border.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u318	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The State Border Control Act has been subject to multiple amendments and additions over the past 5, 6 years. The reasons and consequences of these changes are, above all, an increase in the number of illegal state border crossings in recent years, leading to an increase in control at the state border. Illegal transitions are at least lower in statistics over the last two years, which can also be attributed to the Sars-COV-2 viruses, and thus people who, because of different circumstances, have planned to make a long and dangerous journey to a better world either in their countries or somewhere on the way to various refugee camps. With amendments to the State Border Control Act, we have so far regulated how the police can set, install and use technical or other means to control the border of the state border or to prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border by simplifying the management of the procedures for the establishment of public service benefits and the determination of the amount of compensation and the period of loading of land have established a legal basis for entering service into the land register, including on property owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and consequently pay compensation to the beneficiary and entered into public service on the basis of the Treaty on the establishment of public service, in view of the temporary technical obstacles already imposed, irrespective of the already imposed ban on the disposal or burden on the individual land, and so on. It follows that today's amendment to the State Borders Act also regulates the legal basis for the partial reimbursement of costs to municipalities at the state border due to the increased control of the state border. The Slovenian police, together with members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, have increased the implementation of activities to detect illegal crossings of the state branch, which means additional costs for municipalities along the state border, due to the necessary rehabilitations on municipal roads and public flows along the state border. [[Incomprehensible]] The mayors of these municipalities have repeatedly pointed out that the State is responsible for the control of the state border and that, due to the increased presence of the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces in this part of the country in the infrastructure, damage or additional costs to local communities has been caused, the State is obliged to provide funds to reimburse the costs of rehabilitation and rehabilitation of infrastructure. The novelist stated in her marriage paper that they took into account the comments made by the Association of Slovene municipalities. Only these related to the additional criteria for reimbursement of part of the costs and the extension of the descriptions of eligible costs also to measures for the death of traffic speed and other costs incurred by municipalities in order to increase the safety of citizens. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposed amendment of the State Border Control Act, but at this point I would point out that the competent in the country should see more frequently the border belt in which it is and whether the fences and the bulky belt are healed, opaque, unregulated. Since the situation in this regard is often poor and the border belts are often unregulated, consideration should also be given to the transfer. Maintenance of this belt in the local community, of course, with the appropriate compensation or reimbursement of the costs that the congregations will have in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u320	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! The proposal for a new law is just a gift to the border municipalities to resupply roads from the state budget. The government has already allocated its entire mandate to municipalities in order to increase its popularity in individual local areas and, in particular, the popularity of the largest coalition party SDS. The explanation states in which cases the municipality will be able to obtain reimbursements. I quote: “The eligible costs include the costs of rebuilding and investment maintenance of municipal roads and public roads, which are additionally burdened by the increased control of the state border, the costs of lighting up municipal roads and public roads and other costs incurred by municipalities in order to increase the security of citizens and are the result of increased control of the state border. For example, costs of renovation and investment maintenance include costs of asphalting and grading roads and public roads, banking arrangements, caves and the like. The costs of lighting are the costs of new installation, replacement and repair of lighting on municipal roads and public traffic, and it is important that this lighting is linked to the control of migration.” (Final reference) A month ago, the Government amended the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, allowing municipalities to change previously the resources to improve the situation of the Roma community into a new one, which means that the municipality will be able to use them for anything, such as for building a Rondo in the municipality and not necessarily for building the necessary infrastructure in Roma settlements. The Government is now providing additional resources to the border municipalities, due to the battle for increased migration. A very expensive SDS campaign and a coalition that is used by the state budget to gain support. And we're all paying for this rejection of meddling. If we leave aside the refugee agenda of this government, it is not logical why the municipality would be given the means to repair roads and public enlightenment for refugees who sail across Kolpo, not for example because of the massive crossing of the summer border, because of tourists who go on vacation to Croatia. You'll say, "Tourists do ride state roads." Well, tourists also stop in the municipality, so they also burden the municipal infrastructure. Whatever you're up against, the government wants to kill two birds at a time with this proposal. It creates room for spreading its anti - refugee hysteria and, on the other hand, corrupts the congregations, or what such a provision does in this law. If the government believes that this is a matter to be settled, it should be regulated in the Law on Community Financing, a law that we dealt with a month ago. Why didn't you arrange it there if you thought it was so necessary? But yes, you're probably worried about the short-term memory of the electorate, so you're dosing a little here and there. Moreover, the number of illegal border crossings decreased by 31.2% in the last year. Thus, the numbers are about a third lower, and you still act as if this is the main problem in the country and that the municipalities should therefore be helped as a matter of urgency. The problem is the country's repressive policy towards refugees and foreigners, excessive border control and cutting wire treatment, so that the country's devastating social distress would not be better off. If you really think there's something wrong with funding to the congregations [[?]] , arrange this systemically. In Levica, another xenophobic election abuse will be strongly voted against by this pre-election sugar plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u321	Thank you very much. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u322	Dear Vice-President, thank you for the floor, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished assembly. Migration has made a good difference in the lives of people, especially those living directly along the state border. Our working day coincided with the coffins of refugees fleeing war zones to the west and north of Europe in search of better living conditions. Refugees were soon followed by groups of illegal migrants who were still trying to cross the border in an illegal way and where citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and other European citizens were not doing so. The fear of citizens and citizens along the border increased from day to day. The mother's unpleasant encounters with children or older citizens, breaking into houses or weekends, and the last dump of Slovenian forests, which in Illyrian Bistrica alone in two years exceeded 21 tonnes of light waste, has become a major problem for the border residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the previous government outfit didn't want to see the problem, let alone approach the solution. Therefore, you have only partially acted after the escalation of the problem and the decision of citizens and citizens at the border to put an end to this government blindness. Where they sometimes protected the boundaries of wild animals and young couples in love, the military and the police took control. That the security of citizens and citizens at the border is less important than political prestige, speculation, has been demonstrated by the opposition's failure to support the activation of Article 37a. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Border Control Act provided that the police may set up, install and use technical means to exercise State border control, in order to carry out this task successfully, these tasks, police officers may use land and water surfaces, regardless of ownership, and the police must be allowed free access and movement to carry out their border control tasks without delay. Accordingly, the inhabitants of the border areas have adopted, inter alia, the establishment of temporary technical barriers. Increased border control, which is due to unauthorised border crossings, which unfortunately does not indicate a near decline in illegal border crossings, means an additional cost for these border municipalities. As a result, municipalities need to more often rehabilitate municipal roads and public roads along the state border. This is also supported by a number of mayors who point out the increased use of infrastructure, in particular an increase in the cost of rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and roads along the state border. The adoption of the Act supplementing the State border control law will provide a legal basis for partially reimbursed municipalities at the state border for the increased control of the state border or for the extraordinary events arising from the control of the state border. With the proposed new Article 9.a, the increased control of the state border on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior shall be decided by the Government by the end of February of the current year. The Government shall also decide on the amount of the funds belonging to each municipality, limited by the amount of the appropriations provided in the budget. The costs of reimbursement to municipalities will include the costs of rebuilding and investment maintenance of municipal roads and public roads, the costs of lighting these roads and roads. These include the costs of asphalting and eloquent roads and public roads, banking arrangements and caves. The new Article 9b provides for an additional reimbursement of part of the costs to municipalities at the state border due to the extraordinary events arising from the control of the state border. One such event was in 2015, when thousands of migrants entered Slovenia daily and required all authorities to carry out more intensive and massive activities to protect the state border. In Novi Slovenija we support the law on supplementing the Law on State Border Control. In this place, we thank the police, the military, civil protection and everyone who cares about the security of our borders, even though it would be part of the opposition. [[sign for the end of the debate]] the best thing to do is to dissolve the Slovenian army. However, it is likely that the same opus operand for the police, which they consider to be repressing illegal migrants, would continue. With these resources, we will be able to pay at least partially to the inhabitants of the border municipalities for all the patience they show on the day-to-day monitoring of illegal border crossings. After years of denial of the problem of the former government, the inhabitants of the border and the border municipalities will receive a symbolic recognition, and [[sign for the end of the debate]] EUR 2 and a half million.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u324	Dear Vice President. The distinguished representative of the Government, fellow Member and Members. The main purpose of the proposed amendments is to legislate the legal basis under which municipalities will receive partial reimbursement of the costs incurred as a result of increased control of the state border. In the SAB we are aware that migration means a certain pressure mainly in the municipality area along the southern Slovenian border. On the one hand, they are costing to maintain roads and municipal roads, which are additionally burdened in the increased control of the state border and, on the other hand, they also face income losses, such as tourism. However, problems also arise when maintaining the condition of technical barriers. The population there is witnessing the growth of the fence, which is harmful to animals, and it also has an impact on the high growth of invasive species. This aspect is also pointed out by the congregations, which also suggested that the cleaning of the fence and the border belt be transferred to the jurisdiction of the congregations. The current regime is obviously not effective, since according to their reports, the border belt has not been cleaned for years. In the SAB we are aware that a few years ago the situation was largely at the southern Slovenian border. However, it is a fact that the number of illegal migrations has been falling sharply over the past three years, so we are justified to have guessed why the government did not recognize these problems earlier but by chance just at the time we entered the pre-election period. The financial implications of the law are estimated at around €2.5 million, which does not represent a significant burden for the country. We believe that the congregations are pleased because the increased border control actually has more damage and, consequently, more costs. However, we are concerned about the comments made by the Legal and Legal Service on the proposal. They pointed out that it was reasonable to doubt that the municipalities would be able to apply all the eligible costs incurred by them due to increased supervision in the current calendar year. In doing so, they specifically pointed out that the proposal is incompatible internally, as it recognises, on the one hand, the right to reimburse the work of the eligible costs and, on the other hand, by setting a deadline for submitting the application, this makes it impossible for them to do so. [[Incomprehensible]] In the SAB Group, we will not oppose the bill. However, we are concerned about the means of communication we received in this National Assembly. Therefore, we will continue to fight for a tolerant, free - hearted and tolerant Slovenia, which does not build on divisions based on fear based on race, nationality, faith, and on individual success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u325	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u326	It's a nice hello to all of us again. Today, we are deciding on a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Border Control, which aims to establish a legal basis for partially reimbursed municipalities at the state border, created by increased control of the state border, or caused by extraordinary events caused by State border control. Migration has become a constant since 2015, requiring effective response from the police. The police, in cooperation with the Slovenian Army, adapt to the state border situation by their way of action, presence and measures, and monitor the migration situation in the country. Increased control of the state border means that additional costs are incurred for municipalities at the state border due to the necessary repairs on municipal roads and public roads along the state border. The increased presence of the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces means increased use of infrastructure in these municipalities, resulting in costs for infrastructure rehabilitation, in particular the cost of rehabilitation, and maintenance of roads and roads along the state border. The law before us today mentions the issue of addressing two substantive articles. With the proposed new 9a. Article 3 of the Act introduces, as it is said, a legal basis for the partial reimbursement of costs to municipalities bordering the state border due to increased State border control. Increased State border control means more intensive implementation of activities and measures under the Law on the Control of the State Borders and the Schengen Borders, resulting in increased police presence in the municipality area at the state border. The eligible costs include the renewal of the investment maintenance of municipal roads and public roads, which are additionally burdened by the increased control of the state border, the costs of lighting of municipal roads and public roads, and other costs incurred by municipalities to increase the security of citizens and are the result of increased control of the state border. 9b. However, the Article provides for additional reimbursement of part of the costs to municipalities, at the state border, due to exceptional events arising under State border control. These are events which, due to their nature, require even more intensive and massive implementation of the activities, the protection of the state border and exceed the activities set out in the above mentioned 9a. The article, as a result, also means a significant increase in the presence of police and other authorities in the area of municipalities, at the state border. The fact is that municipal roads are extremely burdened by increased transit, and consequently more damage and annual investment in road rehabilitation, rehabilitation or reconstruction is due to the fact that the municipalities are also adequately compensated for this. Therefore, we will support in the Parliamentary Group a concrete proposal for a law supplementing the Law on State Border Control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u328	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. The State Border Control Act was amended several times, last September. At that time, a legal basis was established for entering the service into the land book, including on properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The payment of compensation to the beneficiary and the provision of services to the public benefit on the basis of the contract concluded due to the temporary technical obstacles put in place, irrespective of the already registered prohibition on the disposal or burden on the individual land, have thus become legally enforceable. This time, the amendment of the law aims to establish legal bases for the partial reimbursement of costs to municipalities at the state border. Costs incurred as a result of increased control of the state border and additional burdens on local infrastructure, or as a result of extraordinary events arising from that control. Increased State border control means more intensive implementation of activities and measures under existing legislation. The result is increased police presence in areas along the state border. It is envisaged that the procedure for reimbursement of the costs to municipalities will be carried out by means of a decision by the Government to determine the existence of increased control on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior. The Government will also determine the amount of funds belonging to each municipality, with a ceiling of EUR 2 million and EUR 500 000 in the state budget for 2022. The municipality has tasks which are its original powers and are determined by law. These tasks or services of local public authorities are the responsibility of all municipalities, or they are to be provided by the people in their territory. These tasks include the construction, maintenance and regulation of local public roads, public roads and other public areas. The expenditure of municipal budgets to finance projects on the local road network is, by its size, at the top of the overall expenditure structure of municipal budgets. In the larger Slovenian municipality, they can exceed € 2 and a half million in one year. In one municipality alone, State co-financing is intended for a whole range of municipalities located at the eastern or southern borders, and it is therefore in the palm of the hand that municipalities, as so far as they are concerned, will be financed by investment maintenance and rehabilitation, while the state share will only be a welcome partial financial burden, and it is necessary to stress that this is a gesture of a state that demonstrates the importance of local self-government in the state government system. This is important because it is about changing established practices for the better. The amount of the costs incurred, due to the increased control of the state border, will have to be demonstrated by the municipality with the relevant documents and justification for the purpose of spending. It will be verified whether it is an increase in the cost of the municipality, due to increased state border control or directly linked to it. The municipalities will also be reimbursed some of the costs caused by the extraordinary events caused by the control of the state border. These are events which, due to their nature, require more intensive and massive implementation of State border security activities and thus lead to a significant increase in the presence of police and other authorities in the area of border municipalities. In the Desus Group, we believe that they have been complementary and necessary, so we will unanimously support the proposal for a law or to supplement the Law on State Border Control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u330	Your Honor! The purpose of the law is to ensure that municipalities which are partially reimbursed at the state border for the costs incurred, due to increased control of the state border. The estimated value is EUR 2 million 500 000. It is right for the municipalities to receive this money because the infrastructure was needlessly additionally burdened, resulting in these. It is true that a small amount is involved, but such tighter controls are carried out exclusively because of the illegal entry of foreigners into our territory. We believe that these costs and all the other costs that Slovenia and foreigners have had in bilateral talks would be necessary to demand back from the countries of origin of foreigners. For most of them it was determined which countries they came from. At the international level, a basis could be established for such costs to be reimbursed by our country. It is a matter of normal thinking if someone comes to this unannounced and causes you harm, it is also appropriate to pay you back. It should be pointed out, however, that we are only talking here about the property damage caused by infrastructure. We must not forget all the citizens of these communities who, due to the migration crisis, have been exposed to fear for a longer period of time. Fear of what will happen, or question whether they are even safe in an environment where they have lived for generations. This type of damage, i.e. the intangible damage caused by foreigners by illegal entry into our territory, is not at all what we are talking about. So we take care of infrastructure, but we forget about people. We are convinced that many citizens in this area have been uncomfortable. He was afraid and fear is present today in some of them. This is a perfectly normal response from people, because there has been a situation that they have faced for the first time, let us hope for the last time. The increased presence of the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces is necessary or necessary for the safety of all of us. On the other hand, such activities and the presence of these authorities in the border municipalities are not pleasant for the citizens there. As such, the uniform stresses certain authority and distinguishes between ordinary citizens and persons exercising certain powers. The longer presence of uniformed persons in a low-crime area certainly causes discomfort to citizens. All of these are circumstances that certainly affect people living in border congregations. All this discomfort and fear of our citizens should not be forgotten by any authority, so it would be right to think in the direction of how to justly remedy such a situation. Good night and stay healthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-21-SDZ8-Izredna-95.ana.u331	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in accordance with the time frame of the assembly in the framework of the vote. I hereby end this item of the agenda, as well as the meeting which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. with the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. Have a nice hello, have a nice and safe trip. Home, of course.
