ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 97th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Today's special invitation is also accompanied by the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Republic of Slovenia, His Excellency, Mr Brodowitsch, whom I welcome. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to today's agenda, I invite you to pay tribute to all victims of Russian military aggression to Ukraine with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Glory to Ukraine! I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Robert Polnar, Ferenc Horváth, Franc Jurša, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 3.30 p.m. to the end of the meeting, Nada Brinovšek from 1 p.m. to the end of the meeting, Andreja Zabret, Brane Golubović, Edvard Paulič and Marjan Šarec until 2 p.m. Representatives of the Government are also invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 97th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 4 March 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the meeting today be held on the agenda which you have received with reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 97th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Proposal for a Declaration on the current dimensions in Ukraine. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by a group of 82 Members and Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Igor Zorčič, as a representative of the applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u2	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Excellency, Ambassador of Ukraine, Mr Mikhailo Brodowitsch, honourable Members and Members of the Government! Peace. The word peace is something that we have in common with all Slavs and in all Slavic languages means and sounds the same — it means peace. And when in cities around the world the response calls for peace, it seems that the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine has touched us so much more when we hear without translation and understand the Ukrainian's request and call for peace. Because from experience in the field of the former Yugoslavia or II. World War II, if you want to know what an unheard cry for help and an unheard cry for peace. We have been monitoring the Russian regime's criminal attack on Ukraine for 14 days in the news. For only 14 days, we have witnessed thousands of victims, millions of refugees, turning the European country and its cities into dust and ashes. We are witnessing the exodus of the Ukrainian population, the Ukrainian people. In just two weeks, 2 million Ukrainians came to the west safely more than refugees from the Middle East to the EU over a period of two years. More than three million Ukrainians are still on the run. Hundreds of thousands are still trapped in the besieged cities, even humanitarian corridors have witnessed or targeted shootings worth all the condemnation. About the horrifying numbers of only two weeks of military aggression in broken schools, kindergartens, housing blocks. About life in the wet and cold bunkers, about the terrible destruction left by the Russian army just yesterday, I was told by the distinguished ambassador of Ukraine, Mr Mikhailo Brodowitsch. Of course, the war scenes are not new, we remember the wars that have taken place in the Balkans around the world, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, at least a dozen armed conflicts are taking place at any moment, but the war in Ukraine is so much more suspicious, because of its scale and also because it has caught us unfaithful and, of course, because it is taking place primarily at the threshold of our European Union. We also feel its effects on energy efficiency, the decline in living standards in short, this military aggression will have, as is already clearly unsettled in scope. Of course, the attack on Ukraine does not merely constitute a violation of international law of the attack on territorial inviolability, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine constitutes an attack on the fundamental values of civilisations of peace, freedom, security and political stability, so it is important that the world and Slovenia do not stand at the crossroads of time. We need action with all our efforts to achieve peace now. The Russian aggression against Ukraine was immediately condemned by the entire international community, and extensive sanctions were also imposed by the International Criminal Court, which had already launched an investigation into the suspicion of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine a week ago. The Slovenian government has also responded and the Slovenian Parliament must also respond as some parliaments across the EU have already responded. The declaration that we are considering today follows our foreign policy and follows the policy of peace. It expresses solidarity, calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities and expresses its support for all the international sanctions adopted so far against the Russian Federation and Belarus. I believe that there is a constructive debate ahead of us, and although there is a pre-election period, we are able to unify ourselves regardless of the double protests we Slovenians have already taken to the right side in this crisis, so I am sure that no one can take any favor or credit for the contribution of the Slovenian people to peace and humanity in Ukraine, which we will also contribute by adopting today's declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy as its parent working body and I give the floor to Mrs Monika Gregorčič, President of the Committee for presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished Ukrainian Ambassador Mr Brodowytsch! At its 38th urgent meeting, on 4 March, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a declaration on the current situation in Ukraine submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Igor Zorčič. Amendments to points 3 and 10 of the first signed proposal, to points 9 and 9 of the Coalition's sent groups and to the Levica Group at points 8 and 11 of the proposal were tabled within the time limit. Mr Igor Zorčič, the first-signed Mr. Igor Zorčič, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicants, pointing to a drastic change in the international situation after February 24, 2022, following the Russian attack on the sovereign country of Ukraine, as military aggression reflects the territorial aspirations and aspirations of one country over another. He drew attention to the tragic consequences of the war, which led the world to respond quickly and unitedly. He announced that the President of the Ukrainian Parliament will also be invited to the meeting of the Presidents of Parliament of the EU Member States and of the European Parliament at the end of March at Brdo pri Kranj. The proposer expressed his sympathy for the large number of victims and refugees and highlighted the danger of a nuclear disaster and the belief that EU economic sanctions would have consequences both in the Russian Federation and beyond. In its consideration, the Board took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which drew attention to the need to correctly state the titles of international acts and to the appropriate designation of the entities Donetsk and Lugansk, which are not internationally recognised entities. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr Stanislav Raščan, pointed out that Slovenia shares a unified position with EU and NATO members in condemning Russia's aggression against Ukraine and that the Government also welcomes the proposal for a declaration as Slovenia joins the international community in supporting sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine's internationally recognised borders and in condemning Russia's military aggression. He also announced a written opinion on the draft declaration. He said that Slovenia offered humanitarian aid and supported all sanctions against the Russian Federation, namely economic sanctions and diplomatic or political isolation. He also thanked Members for the initiative given to convene the UN General Assembly, and Slovenia has already requested an independent investigation by the Prosecutor's Office of the International Criminal Court in order to destroy the Slovenian Consulate in the centre of Kharkiv, as this is a clear violation of international law. In the debate of the members and members of the Committee, support was expressed for the proposal for a declaration. It has been pointed out that international law has been gravely violated, the need and importance of resolving the situation through diplomatic channels and the dimension of the humanitarian disaster. There has been a repeated call for the National Security Council to meet in a wider configuration. The debate also highlighted Ukraine's European perspective and expressed fear that Russian military aggression could be transferred to other European regions. At the end of the discussion, the Committee did not adopt the proposed amendments of the Left Group and adopted the proposals of the amendments of the first-signed proposer, Igor Zorčič and the coalition groups. Finally, the Committee voted on the entire proposal for a declaration and adopted it, with 14 votes in favour and no votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Anjet Logar, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u6	Dear, good-bye! Today's review of the proposal for a declaration coincides with the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Slovenia and Ukraine. We mark it tomorrow, March 10th. This should be a happy day to mark 30 years of excellent cooperation and joint progress between the two countries, but unfortunately today we are gathered for a completely different reality - due to the worst military aggression since World War II, which Russian President Putin unilaterally and unjustifiably began on 24 February. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia strongly condemns the military invasion by the Russian regime into Ukraine. Ukraine is a sovereign country with internationally recognised borders, free to choose security arrangements and to conclude alliances. The 14-day war poses a serious threat to the international legal system by which peace and security have been established on European soil since World War II. The Government therefore strongly welcomes the initiative of the National Assembly and the purpose of this declaration, which joins the call of the international community to promote sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and inviolability of the internationally recognised borders of Ukraine and condemn Russian military aggression and the expression of support to the Ukrainian people. The Government examined the text of the proposal for a declaration on the current situation in Ukraine, and even as soon as possible, delivered its positive opinion on the same day with some suggestions mainly of a terminology and legal nature. Slovenia, together with partners in the European Union and NATO allies, supported a full range of diplomatic activities with the aim of exerting pressure on the Russian Federation to end military aggression without delay. A number of measures have already been taken against the Russian Federation at European Union level – sanctions, diplomatic isolation, Security Council resolution, exclusion from international organisations and also with the active support of Slovenia and Ukraine and its efforts for peace. At the same time, Slovenia immediately responded to efforts to provide Ukraine with all the necessary material assistance and support. Slovenia has already provided assistance and shelter for Ukrainian refugees who have reached Slovenia, we have established a call centre for information on assistance to refugees from Ukraine. In addition to the material humanitarian assistance already sent to Ukraine, we have made an additional humanitarian contribution of 1.1 million euros. Given that the Russian side is preventing the implementation of humanitarian corridors to destroy civilian infrastructure, it is imperative to continue the coordinated and coordinated approach of the international community of all international partners with regard to further restrictive measures and all types of assistance, as well as with regard to proactive responses to developments in the field. In order to destroy the Slovenian Consulate in the centre of Kharkiv by a Russian rocket, attacks on civilians and administrative and residential buildings, which are not military objectives, all of which means a clear violation of international law, also required an independent investigation by the Prosecutor's Office of the International Criminal Court. Day after day, we witness horrendous images filling social networks. It is up to us politicians that this unjust, unjustifiable war, this brutal aggression of the Russian Federation to an independent Ukraine will not disappear from the daily news into the ignorance of the West and into the suffering of Ukraine in oblivion. To keep this topic alive, the Government once again supports the initiative of the first and all signed under this declaration to adopt this text in the Slovenian Parliament. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek. It will present the views of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone, including the guest. Europe is in a difficult and tragic situation these days. The war in Ukraine has shaken us all and in the cruelest way reminded us that peace is by no means self-evident. The condemnation of the aggression of the Russian Federation is not questionable, nor is it questionable to respect Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Military intervention and invasion into a sovereign nation are not acceptable and are therefore fully condemned. We stress, however, that it is equally important to maintain the awareness that the Russian nation is not to blame for what is happening and that many stories are written among these people that should not be written on the account of war. We will, of course, support the declaration in the SAB. We have already stressed on the Committee that steps in the formal response of the Slovenian government are true. Nevertheless, a number of things seem inadequately carried out, unfair, underthinking, and even dishonest. For example, the Slovenian State did not take care of citizens who were in Ukraine and did not adequately help them to return home. It is unacceptable and sad that diplomats took care of themselves and left the rest of the citizens to find themselves as usual and know each other. We have also been able to see again as it applied to the covid-19 epidemic, imported, the situation of immature and inappropriate communication. People in critical times need a reliable person who can calm them down and inspire them with confidence that things will work out, not threaten with nuclear weapons and increase tensions. Calls for further gun-breathing should be fully replaced by calls for decision makers to sit at the common table as many times as necessary and for the dispute to be resolved there as soon as possible and without unnecessary casualties. All wars end at the table, and in the meantime innocent people die, and in history they have died at tens of millions, and this simply cannot happen again. All forces must be strained and the best negotiators found in the world must be found in order to come to a solution, to stop the war, and not to lose what is most precious — life. The third inadmissible error that has been made is the division of refugees into first and second classes. We Slovenians are a compassionate nation, and we have had a human approach to all refugees fleeing the conflict, regardless of where they come from. Conditioning assistance to a man fleeing war by coming from a historical, cultural, and religiously appropriate area is not only inhumane but unheard of. It is, however, a tragic establishment that the ruling party has carried out in its relationship with the Ukrainian President. If President Zelenski is a hero in the eyes of SDS today, and indeed he is a hero, it was completely different three years ago, for example, Zelenski was Zelenski, and I take the words of Vinko Gorenak, “the nat people who took him and put him in the place he played”. It was no more plaguing to Zelenska than your television, which she repeatedly labeled as a comedian without political experience and a Russian mercenary, and you allowed yourself to speak for a democratically elected president in Ukraine. It seems that in all of our Prime Minister's communication about the Ukrainian tragedy, it is not really about Ukrainians, but about addressing local voters and their feelings. To distract attention from the events of the last two years and to cover up all the mistakes made during this time. For voters must forget as soon as possible what has happened at this time and what path this government has paved for our journey, the path of enormous indebtedness and headless spending, the way in which there is oppression, the way in which only one mind is desired and allowed, and the way in which the account is directed to anyone who dares to think otherwise, the way in which human rights are too often trampled and where there is a completely blurred border between the branches of power, the way to an authoritarian state. The convicted authoritarian leader in Russia didn't happen overnight and he doesn't happen with us either. The above practices, capture and leadership must also be brought to an end in our country before we get even deeper. In the SAB Group, we will unanimously support the Declaration, as I have already said, and under which we have also signed. However, we are aware that this is an expression of support, which unfortunately has no major effects. At the same time, I reiterate the importance of a diplomatic approach and a peaceful one, for the table, to resolve this dispute. All forces and efforts must be directed to bring about a ceasefire, talks, and, as we all wish, an agreement as soon as possible. The main priority of Slovenia at this time must be to support all diplomatic efforts to stop the fighting. Slovenia must also play its role, especially in terms of humanity, and accept the refugees who need our help. Thank you for your attention. And let peace return to Europe as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I will read again the title of today's item on the proposal for a declaration on the current situation in Ukraine. I will not interfere with the content of the views of individual parliamentary groups, but I would like not to politicise the current situation in Ukraine or to collect political points at the expense of innocent people. [[Let's hear it.]] Next, for the position of the Group, yes, Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u10	Respectable. Russian military aggression in Ukraine is regrettable and condemned. It represents a serious attempt to break international balance and global regulation based on international law, from a violation of the United Nations Charter to a violation of the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding, which in 1994 the Russian Federation, the United States of America and the United Kingdom provided security guarantees to Ukraine in exchange for its nuclear disarmament waiver. Today, we are witnessing the brutal Russian negation of Ukraine's right to its own statehood, sovereignty and territorial integrity. The military aggression against one of Europe's largest countries unwittingly raises questions as to who its next victim might be, so there are also comparisons with what happened before World War II. Let us recall that military intervention in Ukraine was immediately followed by a move by the Russian recognition of the independence of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, under the pretext of the need to protect the Russian population in this part of Ukraine. More than likely, this was just an excuse or so - called carte blanche for military intervention due to Russian territorial aspirations. On February 24, we woke up in a new less secure world. A Council where conflicts between countries are again resolved with arms rather than through diplomatic negotiations. In these circumstances, more than ever before, unity and the rapid, effective and coordinated response of members of the European Union and NATO allies is more important. The democratic world in the condemnation of Russian military aggression speaks the same language. This test has only strengthened and unified the Member States of the European Union and the Allies. The economic sanctions and political isolation of Russia are already in effect. Their aim is to make it difficult for the Russian Federation or to prevent the financing of military aggression. Ukraine needs our assistance, especially humanitarian aid and military resistance equipment. But it is also diplomatic, moral and political with clear support for its European perspective and with acts such as this declaration. With today's confirmation of the declaration of the current situation in Ukraine, the Slovenian National Assembly will also join the national and European Parliaments, which have already adopted such a declaration in support of Ukraine. In the Group, we specifically assess that any relativisation and justification of military aggression against a sovereign and internationally recognised state is inappropriate. It is also unfair and immoral to use this topic by the opposition for internal political purposes. We are aware that the consequences of economic sanctions will be felt by all, including in Slovenia, in the form of more expensive energy and food, and by difficult and slow supply chains or economic movements in general. But peace, security and democracy have no price. In order to mitigate the economic consequences, however, our common European idea, the common European market and other mechanisms of the European Union will be more pronounced than ever. Members of the Group will, in particular, endorse the proposal for this declaration in support of Ukraine in a uniform manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. He will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A U.S. scientist and carist Carl Sagan once said that a nuclear arms match is similar to a mortal enemy standing in a gas strip, one holding three and five matches. All we can do today is make sure of that. The Russian Federation is a military power, despite other assurances, it has attacked Ukraine's neighbouring and sovereign state and has led the world to a major new conflict. Military exercises taking place in border areas carried out by the Russian Federation with Belarus were apparently only pre-prepared for a widespread attack on Ukraine. In the Desus Group, we immediately responded to the very recognition of the human republics Donetsk and Lugansk by the Russian Federation. We were able to follow a similar story in 2014 in the Crimea Peninsula. At that time, the geopolitical aspirations of the Russian Federation surprised us, but we should be prepared for further plans after the expansion of territory and power. A few days after the deployment of troops to the disputed people's republics, Russia showed its true purpose, triggering a strong and widespread attack on various cities in Ukraine. This is how the new war began practically before the European threshold. If calls for the calming of aggression by Russia were coming on the first day, it soon turned out that the Russian Federation had no intention of interrupting its violent operation. The international community responded immediately and sharply to an unprovoked attack. The Russian Federation and its leaders received various sanctions. At the same time, more and more bidders would interrupt services in the Russian Federation. In the past days, there has already been an organisation of assistance to Ukraine, both by the civilian population and by companies. Soon after the conflict began, convoys of medical equipment and food arrived in the affected cities. We have already responded to the military aggression being carried out against Ukraine and its people by individual political parties and parliamentary groups. Today, there is also a document before us that condemns such atrocities in connection. It also condemns Belarus, which actively cooperates with logistical and military assistance to Russia. Soldiers and civilians fight together against an aggressor that is numerically and technologically more powerful. But Ukrainians are fighting for their homeland, for their homes and for their families. It is up to us to unitedly show political solidarity to the Ukrainian people. Pointing with a finger and demilitarization ideas are meaningless at this point. The Ukrainian nation is fighting for survival and it is only one person who could stop this aggression at any moment. We expect all parliamentary parties to strongly condemn the attack and the aggressor and stop looking for different excuses. At least in this place we should be united as part of a democratic society. In the Desus Group, we support the immediate cessation of hostilities in Ukraine and the Russian Federation and Belarus, and we call on it to immediately withdraw its troops from the sovereign territory of Ukraine. It is urgent to stop this aggression and to establish humanitarian assistance for affected civilians. At this point, it must be pointed out that civilian victims who are increasing from day to day due to the consequences of the conflict will be present on both sides. The people of the Russian Federation affected by sanctions will also be reduced to survival because of their leaders' decisions. Many in Russia are aware of this, so images and images of protests against the war in Ukraine are spreading on social networks in Russian cities. Finally, let me say that we must absolutely strive to resolve the conflict peacefully. The diplomats and representatives of all countries should seek a common path as soon as possible, which will restore peace and lead to the early recovery of the consequences of this conflict. All individuals and businesses who have taken an active approach to humanitarian aid to vulnerable people without thinking can only express their sincere thanks. Stories on the free transport of equipment by trucks, the collection of medical devices and food, storage and individual loans of means of transport and could also be listed. Both the Republic of Slovenia and our citizens can thus be an example to all major countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Dusan Šiško, who will present the position of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u14	All in attendance, all in attendance! The Slovenian national party is against violence and war. But we know that matters are regulated in a diplomatic field with a sober and calm head, not with emotion. During the night, the war in Ukraine turned the world around. All the daily news is mostly focused on the situation in Ukraine and on guesswork if we are on the threshold of World War III. This topic is certainly difficult and separates both Slovenia and the world nation. It was pretty quickly clear that there was a mass of false news, and we can certainly say that what the actual situation is known is only involved in this senseless struggle. As far as it is known, Russia signed an agreement with Ukraine in 2014 not to include Ukraine in NATO. Certainly, the SNS has been against Nat from the very beginning. We should be strengthening our domestic army. The fact is, when America interferes with anything, we have witnessed a long war. It would be best for Slovenia to withdraw or distance itself from this senseless war. As we see now, America will be the only one that will gain it. In the SNS, we support humanitarian aid for refugees, but at the same time we insist on the belief that we must remain undeclared, neutral and not resort to any kind of cleverness around who is responsible for the start of the conflict. Europe is not much or has not been involved in the attacks in Afghanistan. It was also silent in the event of Kosovo's secession. You still remember what it was like when the war started in the Balkans. Not one European country has jumped to the rescue because the battlefield did not belong to the affected country under the European Union. After all, Ukraine is not in the European Union. So, who cares about this war? I want to know who else can believe in the European Union, because everywhere we go from our country, we need to show a personal document or passport. Is this the European Union, where the free movement of goods and citizens is to be without borders? Our assessment is that we should talk about the topics that concern us - the fishermen who will later have problems with Croats in the Gulf of Piran. The European Union has also put the arbitration agreement aside and has ordered the countries to agree on their own. We certainly support that doctors have applied to go to Ukraine to the border. But it is also true that doctors are suddenly free and have little work to do. I want to know how hundreds of thousands of Slovenians can't get a personal doctor. Remember the times of the Crown that are still, and no one talks about it. Doctors were unable to provide for those Slovenian citizens who needed treatment. But we pay for all the health insurance. Not long ago, the doctors were missing, and now all of a sudden we have too many doctors. But the union keeps saying that the doctors are missing. Let me get on with it. We should also discuss how and where we will build apartments for young people, what we will do to ensure that people are properly paid for their work, and there are over 600,000 people below the poverty line. So, what are we going to leave our craftsmen? This is something that both the Government and we in this temple of democracy should discuss in the first place. Now we have a war in Ukraine and again the whole focus is focused there. But we forget about the Slovenian people and the Slovenians again put in second place. Let us leave aside the fact that the Slovenian Army has been re-evaluated very badly because it has been preventing it from developing for years. Do you seriously believe that we can be defended by 2 thousand 271 soldiers, a thousand 19 officers and a thousand 900 officers from the coming war, which is no longer so imaginary? The latest news is that Putin will not stop attacking Ukraine, but has already requested and obtained a list of all countries that have opposed or imposed enemy sanctions on Russia. Only where his thought of the attacks will go. Remember how much dust it raised in Crimea, and more than 90% of Crimea's population decided to join Russia with more than 80% of March 2014. It is not up to us to sign a declaration issued by the President of the National Assembly by members who have been forced into the public domain. Such mode of action is by no means in conformity with the Constitution. Also at the meeting, when colleagues proposed that the drafter, the President of the National Assembly, return from a video conference with the President of the Ukrainian Parliament, showed no interest in discussing this declaration without the presence of cameras. We have also not been informed of this declaration in Parliament before. The Declaration should certainly be written together or supplemented, not just by the President of the National Assembly. I must also point out that the President of the National Assembly has given the time limit for the signature of the declaration in less than 24 hours. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Slovenian national party could not give signatures. However, I see that some other Members have also not signed or withdrawn signatures from the declaration. Even though we will be the only one to abstain from the declaration, we stand in the position that the Slovenians must first be taken care of and move wisely away from the topic of the Russian-Ukrainian war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u15	I will read again the title of the agenda item this is we are considering the Proposal for a Declaration on the current situation in Ukraine. Any position of the Group of Members that deviates excessively from this topic is more than a reflection of the Group of Members themselves, and I must say, above all, that there is probably also a disagreement between all the other Signatories that we have signed this Declaration and that we have not had any politicisation in mind, but that they are in the background of a very different purpose. I will give Mrs Sukič a procedural order immediately, but from the beginning I have asked you to respect the agenda and stick to it. I am not prejudiced to the content of the views of the groups of Members, but I am, as chairman, who is concerned that the meeting is held in accordance with the agenda, is obliged to draw attention to the content of the point that we are considering if someone goes beyond these borders and we are or I am, which is tolerable. Mrs. Sukich, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u16	Yes, Madam President, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you do not comment on the views of the parliamentary groups. Because today we are talking about a declaration does not mean that a colleague cannot explain why, for example, he did not sign this declaration and question the things that may have diminished in this declaration or were not communicated in the right way. So, please don't, because you're conducting this meeting, don't let any of you interfere with the views of the members of this group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u17	Mrs Sukič, I did not reach into the content of the position given by Mr Šiška and Mrs Bratušek, but it is true that neither the epidemic nor the doctors, nor anything else, as the two speakers have spoken of, have warned them that the issues of the agenda have nothing to do with the state of war in Ukraine, and that I have therefore warned both of them, and that I will not prejudice anyone who goes too far in my position with this content in the views of individual groups, because I let them say theirs at the time they chose it is my duty to take care of the agenda and to respect the item on the agenda. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u18	I apologize to the President, but I must join the procedural proposal of colleague Natasha Sukić. You have criticised every position that has not been fully consistent with this declaration and, of course, the epidemic is also related, and doctors and people who do not reach health care in Slovenia are also associated with this situation that we are facing. I really suggest that you leave different arguments and that people understand that we have different views. You told me who supported this declaration and you clearly put yourself in a position of what you like, but I welcome the debate here in this National Assembly on this and it is right to hear arguments why someone is abstention either because of the procedure or because of the lack of information about the actual state of the matter. I propose that you leave the representatives of the Group of Members to say what they have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u19	Mrs. Tomić, I left. It is my duty, however, when I hold a meeting to warn the speakers who are going through the agenda and I have also done this and I am not restricting anyone in my position, I am not restricting anyone in the words they say, but it is also right that someone is following us through screens, that he understands what we are actually dealing with today and that we are not talking about an epidemic or about Slovenian health. However, if we had time I would not steal it from you, I could read all points 12 of these declarations and I am not putting myself in any position, but I am exercising my responsibility as chairman at the moment and I am making sure that it is in accordance with the agenda of the meeting. I don't want to silence anyone. I didn't even interrupt any of them in my implementation. By suggesting that we continue or if Mr Šiško wishes to proceed on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u20	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Look, I was just mentioning those things, which is actually true. I don't know if you know, and you're aware that 150 doctors have signed up to go to the Ukrainian border. I don't know. You were in charge, and you ordered the proposer to come over, and we'd talk behind closed doors, but there were still amendments on the subject, and the president himself said that right now, I don't know, I won't say how he put it, he wasn't mostly at this closed-door consultation. And finally, Madam Vice-President, look, you have so much to say when Vice-President Jože Tanko leads. You always have some kind of replication of each Member group, each Member, and you have started doing it with Mrs Alenka today, with me. I'm just waiting for a rapper, what you're gonna do when Levice starts talking. [[Laughing in the hall]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u21	Look, Mr. Shisko, I didn't interrupt your implementation. I didn't interrupt anyone else. And now you're going to be some kind of raft of procedural proposals, and that says more about you than it does about me. I didn't interfere with your position, but I read the agenda once again. As for the meeting behind closed doors, Mr Šiško, we might know that if the meeting is behind closed doors, then it will remain behind closed doors. And you have violated this agreement, which all the parliamentary groups have, just by commenting on what the representatives of the parliamentary groups behind closed doors have been talking about. And that's extremely incorrect because you didn't tell me the whole picture. But I'm not getting involved in this, because I'm not going to comment on this meeting that was going on again behind closed doors. So what you're going to now is extremely inappropriate for a session like this right now. So, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, please make a procedural proposal. I ask you to make a procedural proposal as well. Given that your two predecessors have not even made a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u22	Yes, Madam Vice President. I ask you to conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Your leadership today is dangerously similar to your colleague Tank's leadership. It's dangerously similar. And if we work in this National Assembly so that we can only say what the President thinks, then democracy in our country is unfortunately over. All I have been saying in my speech is unfortunately still connected to the situation in Ukraine and Russia. Unfortunately, Slovenia is on a very similar path. Unfortunately. And I think it's right to say things like that. And if this is the position of the SAB Group, respected Vice-President, you have no right to interfere with our position. And I agree, if this is how we're going to run the sessions, then these sessions could be five minutes long. Everyone will just say I support, I don't support, we vote and we end. I hope that democracy in Slovenia is not on such a path. And you've always been critical of Comrade Tank, I always believed that your way of working was different. Today I am disappointed, but I hope to say that this was a moment of weakness and that from now on it will be different in the Chamber, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, that we can say the position of the Group of Members connected with the agenda. And I believe that we are all so self-absorbed in this Chamber that even if you don't say ten times what's on the agenda, we all know what we're talking about today. And it's humiliating for everyone sitting here. I think you've read this agenda ten times now. Moving on, let us unanimously support this declaration, which we have thus almost unanimously signed and remain a democratic country.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u23	Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, I really don't understand your intervention. It is not that I have had a moment of weakness, but it is certainly that I have been obliged to point out that the position where the epidemic is being discussed and the confrontation or functioning of the current government with the epidemic is unfortunately irrelevant to the current situation in Ukraine and to the declaration that we are considering today. So, I wanted to move on, too, without these procedural proposals, which make no sense. All you are doing is to reduce the value of this declaration, which today, as the National Assembly, we wish to adopt unanimously. Mr. Vojko Starović, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u24	Madam President, thank you for your word. Look, you take a lot of words and comment, but you didn't stop the loud murmuring, the speech during the speech of a member representing the position of a member group, and then by your intervention you gave a welcome applause and did not intervene again. You have peace to worry about in the hall. You don't do that. But you comment on what you have no right to comment on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u25	Mr Starović, this wasn't a procedural proposal because you didn't propose anything to me, nor did you ask me any procedural questions, [[advertising from the hall]] But as for my intervention, I've explained it a few times and I won't explain it again. The fact that my colleagues applauded and that I challenged anything, look, I didn't ask them to, well, so let's get it right. Also, I've calmed down the hall, if you see, there's peace in the hall. All that is peace is the current procedural proposals, and once again, I do not interfere substantively with the individual views of the groups of Members, but it is true that I have pointed twice to the topic which has been overstepped by the two Members, in my opinion, and this is my duty, when I preside over the session, only this. Far from my intervention in any way being similar to Mr Tank's previous interventions, [[advertising from the hall]] When he “intervented” in, - no, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, in nothing like - I just read the agenda again and asked that we do not politicise today's declaration and today's session. That's all, I didn't get into anything in your position. Let's be honest and if you're as honest as you are [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] This, look, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, with such interventions, I don't know what you're telling people, but, please, you have the floor for procedural. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u26	All of us in this Chamber are Members of the National Assembly. If you are now planning to divide us into first-class and second-class, it is said that those who can speak and those who cannot speak, we are on the very wrong path, respected Vice-President and yes, your performance today is very similar to that of colleague Tank, whether you want to hear it or not. I wish it wasn't like that. And I ask you to lead the meeting or either, I invite you to conduct the meeting as stated in the Rules of Procedure so that you do not define yourself to the opinions of the members of the groups; in our particular case, you have not been in line with the agenda for you, what is this other than defining the opinion of the parliamentary group? And we could be at the end of our positions, and we could have accepted the declaration by now if the meeting were to be convened as it was being carried out and anyone could have said what he was thinking. So, I really urge you to calm down the horses and move on, just as we think of the parliamentary groups, because the position of our parliamentary groups is only ours, not from Vice-President Tank, nor from Vice-President Tina Hefferle. It's ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u27	Once again, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, I'm returning it to you. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I have to answer the motion, but not if you give it to me. Look, the ball's not on me to calm down, I'm responding to your activities. So I did not define myself for the opinion of the SAB Group, by no means, but in accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I warned that the speaker could only speak about the subject on the agenda. And the COVID-19 epidemic is unfortunately not on the agenda today, but today there is a declaration on the current situation in Ukraine and that is all I have warned and now whoever understands has understood who is not, but is not, I cannot help. But if you're so observant, you'd be moving on from your point of view. The next word is Mrs Janja Slug. It will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr Starović, you have not made a procedural proposal before. If you have it now, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u28	Earlier, a clear procedural proposal was put forward to guide the meeting by maintaining peace and leading it as necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u29	I'm running it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u30	This was a procedural proposal. And now, we have only made a link from our point of view with regard to the conduct of the inappropriate and with COVID-19 of our Government in individual actions and in this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u31	I'm telling you, it says more about you than it does about me. Here you go, Mrs. Servant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u32	Now we've shown what our picture is. Now we're just showing how sincere we really are about what's going on across Europe. And while they're killing innocent people there, we're politicizing. But as I say, this is a picture of all those who have just done this. These days we are facing a global tragedy in Ukraine where no one can remain indifferent. Even in our Group we have not remained indifferent, so we condemn most strongly the days of the Russian Federation's ongoing military aggression against Ukraine. Russia's behaviour threatens the regulation and security of the whole of the European Union, and the call for a truce and an immediate cessation of the conflicts and for the early continuation of peace negotiations is, of course, necessary. The entire international community should be united on this issue, including this house should be unified and demand an immediate ceasefire and military attacks and strengthen diplomatic activities to address the crisis. This conflict, irrespective of the fact that we are dealing on the one hand with world power and on the other hand with a country defending its sovereignty, freedom and democratic order, cannot and must not end differently than a negotiating table, dialogue and an agreement on peace. Non-aligned Members advocate a peaceful policy and a peaceful settlement of disputes, note the inadmissibility of the use of military force, the inadmissibility of nuclear weapons threats, while at the same time supporting efforts for nuclear disarmament, as the emergence of such weapons has recently raised growing fears among Europeans, including among Slovenians, and destabilizes the wider international community. We also express solidarity and support for Ukraine, especially for its inhabitants and residents, because the real victims of all wars are mostly ordinary people. At the same time, we support the decisions of the European Union, which will tighten the sanctions already adopted and which will provide Ukraine with all the necessary, political, economic, financial, humanitarian and other assistance and care to protect its people. Our country must also immediately offer assistance to Slovenian citizens and citizens residing in Ukraine, Slovenian companies that have suffered the damage due to the unrest in Ukraine and all Ukrainians who will need our help. The unaffiliated Members strongly condemn any exploitation of the war in Ukraine, the pain, suffering and fear of the inhabitants and refugees there, for gathering political points at the internal political scene, which we can see today. We therefore call on the institutions of the executive and legislative branches of government and all political parties not to unduly disturb the inhabitants of Slovenia. We need more than a clearly uniform approach. One step towards this is the declaration under consideration today. I, after all that has happened now, hope that it will be supported by a large majority of Members' votes, will be supported by the unanimous support of our Group of Members, which thus expresses respect for Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next position of the SDS Group will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u34	Your Honor! It is also a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Security is one and indivisible. I've repeated this sentence so many times over the years. Today you can see its true dimension. The dimension of security is the value where we should reach as high a level of consensus as possible. And that international cooperation is a place where interests are established, where there is always and must be room for cooperation on the basis of international law, but there must be no room for naivety. The dream of good cooperation with Russia, the partnership of Europe with Russia, the partnership of Slovenia, our Slovenia with Russia died on 24 February. Brutal, total, or if you want a totalitarian attack by Russia's aggressor on Ukraine has changed Europe and changed the world. There are many parallels between Slovenian independence and what is happening in Ukraine. Even in Slovenia, when it came to independence, boys returned to fight. They are also returning to Ukraine today, with 90 thousand in the first week. You can't defeat a nation like that. All honor and all recognition to Ukraine! And today we are here because Ukraine is fighting. He's struggling with a powerful opponent who's already lost, and he just doesn't want to admit it, and the question is how much suffering, how much destruction, how many more deaths will it take to prove that this will also be admitted by those who should do it and who started the whole story, Vladimir Putin. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are observing, and we should be talking about today, are war crimes. Intentional missileization, mass destruction of civilian settlements, shooting at refugee columns, planned killings, use of prohibited weapons. We've seen footage of cluster bombs, thermobaric warheads against the civilian population of Ukraine. All these are war crimes that don't get old. And, of course, that says a lot. It speaks of the immense suffering of the Ukrainians and tells what is here also a lesson for all of us – that Europe must be restored to true values. That it is necessary to understand that phrase “you are a higher pacem para bellum”, which applies from ancient Rome – if you want peace, prepare for war. Putin did nothing but take advantage of the weakness of Europe and the United States, because of its cultural Marxism, because of its weaknesses in certain functions. And if there is any science, it is that security can provide only solid, determined personalities committed to the true values respected by the international community. And here we Slovenians can be proud – our proposal, the Slovenian proposal, has taken the whole of Europe into account in one week and today Ukraine is on its way to becoming part of the European Union. This is something that we can all, Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, rightly proud of, and it is worth keeping. The second lesson is that it is irresponsible to obstruct or destroy the defence capabilities of the Republic of Slovenia. The army is a pillar of statehood. You can see that today, it's the end of naivety. The end of naivety was the 24th, for all those who naively thought that peace could be achieved only with beautiful words. And it is irresponsible to interfere with military purchases for the Slovenian Army or to disregard the value of patriotism. Today, Ukrainians can be examples. What happens to them is the value of the perceptible in the most noble, most positive meaning of the word. You are aware that 16%, according to official data, of those on the front line are women! Instead of some congratulations to men who don't know what they are, whether they're transgenders or anything, they should pay special tribute to this holiday that was yesterday, to Ukrainians, to mothers, to all those who fight for freedom. Because it is necessary to be aware of something – today in Ukraine it is not only Ukraine that defends itself, in Ukraine it defends international legal order, it defends Europe, it defends Slovenia. Do not think that the rest of the world, including those in the Pacific, do not look at what is happening in Ukraine and what is the reaction of the international community. And it depends on what peace will be like in the world, which depends on our life, the life of the next generation. That's why it's all so important. Therefore, it would be good if, in the case of decisive “no” aggression, in the decisive “no” non-compliance with international rules, international law were to be taken together and reached the highest degree of consensus. To show responsibility, responsibility to all of us, and responsibility to those who are yet to come. In order to restore peace, because only peace is the basis for security, it is the basis for prosperity. It is important to be aware that in the coming months, and perhaps, unfortunately, for years, we will all bear the consequences of what is happening there in one way or another. We'll do our best to help. All support to the Government in its efforts and, of course, all support to the whole country and all thanks to all citizens and citizens who have already shown support or solidarity or have helped Ukraine, Ukraine, children, women, the elderly, all those who now represent true refugees, in their suffering, in order to be able to return home as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, today is also 90 years since Dr. Jože Pučnik was born. You all know his words. We can paraphrase them. For Europe has awakened and this is what is positive in this story. Europe has woken up and reached agreement, so we can say now it is Europe, now it is Slovenia, now it is peace. God lives our homeland of Slovenia and glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u36	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Members and Members of Parliament are warmly welcomed! About 14 days ago, we woke up on a different morning, a morning that was largely around the world, and Ukraine was not overwhelmed by optimism and hope for a better tomorrow, but by the morning that brought back memories of past horrors and restored them. The horrors, the terrors, the destruction and death of war on European soil. These horrors lead the desires and greed of one man, not of the Russian nation, but of their leaders personally, and because of these actions the world today is different, we are different, the geopolitical world is different not least our domestic political situation. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the National Assembly, as the highest institution in our country, the institution, where we participate the citizens' elected representatives, join the long-standing response of the international community, support sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine's internationally recognised borders and express solidarity with the Ukrainian people wherever possible and whenever possible. In LMŠ we are strong advocates of respect for signed bilateral and multilateral treaties and international law. Reinforced multilateralism is what must lead us all forward and today, in the Committee on Foreign Policy, we have discussed the policy on international development cooperation. This assistance has already been earmarked for Ukraine in the past, but last year's affairs have stalled slightly, so our call for continued humanitarian and development cooperation to be pursued, targeted and strengthened, and to help the victims of this war to the best of our ability. This is also what I am talking about in solidarity. The Slovenian people have already proven many times, and I believe that many times more will happen, that we are compassionate and that we are solidarity. We help whenever we can and not only at home, and so it is, and so thank you sincerely to all. And this war is already bearing fruit, and it will also have consequences when these wars are more and we will also feel these consequences in the European Union and not least in Slovenia. Some already appear in the form of economic challenges and many of the incentives we are witnessing. The sanctions that we have never seen so far are necessary to exert pressure on Russia and we support them in the LMŠ. We also expect that Slovenia and the EU, as a whole, will prepare for changes, that society will know what lies ahead and that measures to mitigate this will be timely. The price to be paid from an economic point of view in the European Union is justified because it is a question of whether we are human or not. It is a matter of ensuring peace. I can answer this question with firmness. For the first time in its history, the European Union has taken a swift, effective and, above all, united stand together in condemning the Russian military aggression against Ukraine, adopted two sets of sanctions that continue to be coordinated today, and thus the European Union has demonstrated that it is able to come together and we want it to be found in other key foreign policies and other key integrated issues. The European Union is thus sending its mechanisms a very clear message to Russia that the freedom to decide individual countries in Europe is the foundation it has always sought. That values are inseparable and the unity of the European Union and the West is the highest. We Slovenians are aware of that. But what is happening in Ukraine today is that it is not just war and war. It is a crisis in many ways. It is an infrastructure crisis, it is a refugee crisis and it is a humanitarian crisis. He's evil, and he's the destruction only man can do. It's a crime and it's a tragedy. And every war brings what I've just described. And every war is war, and out of it every fugitive is a fugitive in the same sense. But despite the great unity of Slovenian policy in condemning this act, of course some have found themselves exploiting the state of war for their own political self-promotion. It's shameful, it's repulsive, and it's worth every conviction. For us, it is a key common support for the Ukrainian people to defend themselves against the aggressor, to choose their own constitutional, social, political framework and their external political orientation and decisions on membership in possible international organisations. That's why this Declaration is the answer, and it's support. It is clear that the actions of the Russian Federation are unacceptable and will have consequences. This war, Your Honor, is also an unnecessary war. It is the embodiment of lies, manipulation of the nation and the resurgence of painful history into a painful present. There is no reasonableness in these acts and there will never be and there will never be. It is a complete violation of international law and commitments, which Russia has also signed, apparently with a fig in its pocket, and it is an attack on the sovereignty of the State and a failure to respect all existing and applicable rules. Help, any help, other countries, Russia, thus bears the same responsibility. And Europe will not forget that. Man's history has obviously taught himself a little about wrinkles. We have already underestimated the danger of a mad statesman in Europe in the past. We underestimated him today. And Russia, on the other hand, has greatly underestimated the perseverance, the power and the patriotism of the Ukrainian people to defend their own country. And all this fervor with guns, tanks, guided arrows and all the others that make up war, these weapons, wars, respectable, will not save. In the end, war will have to resolve dialogue, as it has always been in history, because without it, without a word and without a dialogue that makes a man so unique, without it we go truly and truly to hell. That is why we will not, and we must never lose hope. At the start of this war, Members of the LMŠ Group and the whole party made a clear message of condemnation of Russian aggression and, of course, the support of the European Union in this single response. And that's what we're gonna do today. We will unanimously support the declaration, and, of course, we will show support for the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian people. For peace and freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Respectable, all present, last team, minister, colleagues, colleagues. The Republic of Slovenia is based on the policy of peace and cooperation and equality of all the peoples and countries of this world. As a peaceful country, Slovenia understands peace as a goal and a means to improve the quality of life and the development of human rights. Social Democrats are therefore strongly condemning Russia's attack on Ukraine, which is a single and sovereign state. The military aggression against Ukraine is not only an attack on one of the sovereign European countries, but also an attack on an international regime based on democracy, respect for international law and human rights. Russian aggression against Ukraine also constitutes a serious violation of humanitarian law, causing a humanitarian disaster of unpredictable proportions. Military aggression is expected to leave the country with millions of refugees seeking refuge in European Union countries. According to the latest data of the United Nations High Representative for Refugees, Ukraine has already left a good two million refugees. Europe must provide safe haven for Ukrainian refugees through appropriate adjustment and access to education, health care and work. However, Slovenia must be in solidarity with the other Member States of the European Union in sharing the burden of protecting Ukrainian refugees. Unfortunately, many civilians still remain trapped in Ukraine, who have not yet escaped from war zones. Every day we can monitor the shocking scenes of destroyed homes in Kiev, Kharkiv, Mariupol and other Ukrainian cities. Therefore, respectable, we must all together and strongly condemn the attacks on civilians and civilian victims, and we also regret all the civil Russian military aggression and the suffering that war brings to people. However, it must be firmly said that this is not the war of the Russian nation against Ukraine, but it is Putin's war, Putin's war in Ukraine is also testing the unity of the West and our willingness to defend democratic values. We therefore support the sanctions adopted by the European Union, and we will continue to support those who will have the greatest impact on those most responsible for this bloody war and sanctions should not be directed against the Russian nation. The aim of sanctions must be to prevent the Russian leadership and its circle of supporters from continuing to finance this deadly war. In Russia, too, many individuals and groups publicly express disagreement with this Putin war in Ukraine, and they themselves are also receiving violations of democratic rights to peaceful protest against war and police violence by the authoritarian regime. That is why we need messengers of peace more than ever before, respected than the messengers of war. Today we need a rhetoric of respect, not defamation. The creation of conditions for lasting peace, security, respect for human rights and the rule of law is the only weapon, respected, against shortsighted, populist and extremist politics. Therefore, in a public letter yesterday, the President of the Social Democrats Tanja Fajon called on the President of the Republic to refer to a political summit at which Slovenian leaders would agree on the coordinated functioning of Slovenian foreign policy and measures to help people and the economy due to the consequences of the war in Ukraine. During major geostrategic movements, Slovenia urgently needs a coherent and strategic foreign policy capable of protecting its security, political and economic interests. So, three points: unity, solidarity and resilience. We support the proposed declaration on the current situation in Ukraine because we oppose this pointless and unnecessary war. We also support Ukraine's European perspective, and we are fully committed to democratic, free and peaceful Slovenia, Europe and the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We've been very clear in Levica since the beginning. We strongly condemn Russian aggression against Ukraine. We stress the need to demand the cessation of all hostilities and the immediate withdrawal of Russian forces from Ukraine. In the last 13 days, the absurdly Ukrainian war has caused a rift between us, just like the pandemic did. On the one hand, we often listen to those who blame only the Russian Federation and those who blame only the United States. The truth is, as it always is, somewhere in between and much more complex. Russia's aggression cannot and must not be justified in any way; it cannot be carried out in the past by NATO and neither can it be relaviated by the invasion of the United States in the Middle East, both of which stem from the same momentum – the belief that they have the right to rule the world or parts of it as their own spheres of interest. Therefore, it is necessary to draw parallels between these crimes and condemn them all with the same vats, without duality. No circumstance, no excuse and no imbalance of forces grants Russia the right to destroy and adopt Ukraine. No circumstance and no excuse also confers on Nate the right to take Ukraine as a hostage for its expansion to the east. In this truth, which is more complex, there is one constant: life is extinguished. On the side of Ukraine and on the side of Russia. War is terrible. The bomb that falls on Kabul is no different than the bomb that falls on Baghdad. The bomb that falls on Damascus is no different than the bomb that falls on Kiev. War is a horror that doesn't discriminate against all people who take a roof over their heads that takes away their relatives and loved ones who take away their future. Therefore, the international public immediately imposed sanctions against the Russian Federation. However, we note that sanctions should be directed primarily at Putin, his operating apparatus and the oligarchs that run and maintain his regime. The goal must be to weaken and bring this regime to its knees, not to weaken and bring the Russian people to their knees. Therefore, it is not right that the international public immediately began to wipe out Russian culture or everything that is Russian from everyday life. We came to such an absurdity that in Italy they proposed the withdrawal of lectures from Dostoyevsky from the University of Milan. We've come to the absurdity that the international cat union has banned the performance of Russian cats in competitions. We've come to this absurdity that Russian paralympics have been banned from performing at the Beijing Paralympics. The Russians are not our enemy. It's Putin. The Russians and the Russians must be our allies. We need to give them our thoughts, too. The Russians are not guilty of usurping power on the highway. To preserve it, it censors the media, closes criticism, destroys the opposition and changes the constitution. If anyone can help take Putin away, it's the Russians and the Russians. As we stand with Ukraine, we must stand with Russians and Russians who suffer under Putin's boots. This is what the protestors of Russia are warning us about, and above all, their arrests. That's why we can't be two-faced. When we talk about the universal willingness to accept refugees from Ukraine, we can be given hope and sorrow at the same time. The hope that the compassion of individuals, countries and the European Union or the West has been included without reservation. Unfortunately, when it comes to refugees fleeing the same wars of the West, individuals, countries and fortresses of Europe are inexcusable and leave people to die in rivers, in the open sea, and if they reach the borders of this Europe, they are locked away in camps and let them freeze away from their eyes. Compassion and help deserve the victims of all wars and imperialism, both American and Russian, no matter what color they have. Iraqis who flee from war speak the language of grief. Afghans who run from war speak the language of despair. Palestinians who run from war speak the language of fear. Ukrainians who flee war speak the same language. All war victims speak the language of grief, despair, and fear. Because of these things, we are firmly in the position in Levica that war in Ukraine must not be a victim of political abuses. Unfortunately, we've seen these too often in the past week. Since 24 February, we have observed too often war fighting, which is also going on by our government representatives. Our premise is in the opposite direction of people. We condemn the use of weapons and calls that inevitably lead to the conflict of Western countries with Russia and, consequently, a new world war. Such an invitation is, for example, to defend the declaration of the area without overflight, as proposed by the Prime Minister. It's a call to war, not a call to peace. Keeping your eyes fixed on people means keeping your eyes focused on peace. We therefore condemn the attempts of the new bloc's division of the world, introduced by both the warlords of the Russian Federation and the warlords of the United States and NATO. The tightening of the muscles with nuclear weapons, as we observed between 1947 and 1991, must become unacceptable and part of the past. The tensions between former Soviet entities and the Russian Federation cause instability, as caused by the American wars in the Middle East. The Council does not need a bloc-wide division, but a universal system of collective security, under the auspices of the United Nations, with a long-term and lasting objective of disarmament. That is why the war in Ukraine tells us in particular that militarisation, the increase in military and armed expenditure is not the solution, but the main cause of all problems. Some Western countries are in a hurry to arm and fuel conflict in response to the war in Ukraine. Germany has announced a doubling of military expenditure this year. This is the path we reject in the left hand side. More weapons can't mean anything but instability, exhaustion of both sides, profits for the war industry and ultimately poverty for the people. Ukraine is threatening to become a new Afghanistan as a result of its universal rejection of diplomacy. Instead of diplomats, it seems, it's easier to send guns to the West. Our Government also joins in this. More weapons mean less social, health and environmental security. Government officials say it's not [[?]] It is possible to achieve nothing by diplomatic means. Such an attitude is considered dangerous. If we really want to learn something from history, we must insist on a basic assumption to achieve the end of the conflict, a peacekeeping and diplomatic stance at all costs. And the responsibility for the future is not only in talks with Russia, but with everyone. The United States must also return to medium- and long-range missile agreements from which the former President has resigned. The Council must force the United States, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China to sit at the same table and agree to an agreement banning nuclear weapons. The same applies to Ukraine. Wars end at the diplomatic table sooner or later. Why don't we skip the bloody battle and sit all the actors at this table? Russian Federation, Ukraine and NATO. The path to peace is not in weapons; it is in the pursuit of global social justice, demilitarisation and the fight against climate change. People, both at home and around the world, need quality and well-paid work, need solid and public health, need inclusive social health care, the social state, need quality public education, need a roof over their heads, need places where they can live, and the only prosperity is to ensure lasting peace. They will never be given this war, nor will they be prepared for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a declaration of support for Ukraine. I thank all those who have prepared this declaration, which we are going to address today, and I am sure we will be able to accept it, but in New Slovenia we regret that we see that today the declaration will not receive 90 votes and will be supported by a large majority of Members. When we consider this declaration, we have men before us who, because of Putin's war horrors, leave their homes. In front of us are Ukrainian children, mothers, the elderly, who suffer immensely. Over 2 million had to leave their home and their homeland in Ukraine. We are living in a very difficult period and it is important not to lose hope. It is politics which must give hope, in this particular case primarily to the Ukrainian people. We fought an epidemic and a deadly virus for two years. When we saw the light at the end of the tunnel, we thought we could go back to the world as we knew it, once, and then Russia or better, Putin, attacked Ukraine, the sovereign state, the European state, forcefully, with all the means. His goal is probably the idea of rebuilding the Russian Empire. Destruction in Ukraine is only the first stage on this path. The free world must stand together by the actions of one man, autocrates Vladimir Putin. Putin's soldiers can destroy bridges, Ukrainian cities and villages, and they cannot take people's dreams after a better future, freedom, according to Ukraine's European perspective. The battle for Ukraine is a battle for Europe, as we know, the continent of freedom, prosperity and peace. If Ukraine falls, these wars and mad ambitions of Vladimir Putin will not be over. On the contrary, his appetites will be even greater and his methods will be even more brutal. Putin wants Ukraine to be part of the Russian Empire, and we want Ukraine to be a free and democratic part of our European family. At the Munich Security Conference, the President of Ukraine Zelenski told us: “We need only your help and your weapons, we will fight alone.” And the European Union is also giving them this right now. Ukrainians in these difficult times need first hope: that they will be able to militaryly defeat a powerful Russian army and that they will be able to build a better, free future after the end of the war. They need a European perspective, they need membership in the European Union. In New Slovenia we are convinced that Putina does not threaten the expansion of NATO, this is only his excuse and is threatened by the expansion of democracy, freedom and prosperity. The declaration we are considering is similar to the declarations made by some national parliaments that have already adopted declarations in support of Ukraine and the European Parliament resolution. The European Members are practically united in order to grant Ukraine candidate status for membership as soon as possible in the European Union. In a resolution of the European Parliament, supported by a total of 637 Members and Members of the European Parliament - also supported by all Slovenian Members and Members - they demand that Ukraine be granted membership candidate status in the European Union as soon as possible, that the European Union restricts imports of the most important Russian export goods such as oil and gas and the faster supply of defence weapons to Ukraine. In its resolution adopted, the European Parliament condemns the Russian illegal incursion into Ukraine and demands that Russia complete all military activities in the country. He also condemns the role played by the Belarusian dictator Alexander Lukashenko in the attack. Ambassadors and Members strongly reject Russian rhetoric which suggests the possible use of weapons of mass destruction. Russia is reminded of its international obligations and warned of the danger of nuclear exacerbation. All similar points also contain our declaration. In recent weeks, we have seen how the European Union has acted decisively and unitedly in support of Ukraine and has imposed extensive sanctions against Russia. In the New Slovenia Group we would also like such unity in the Slovenian Parliament. Also, Slovenia could not have defended itself against the Yugoslav army 31 years ago without weapons and support from abroad. Colleagues and colleagues, it is our moral duty to help and support Ukraine's fight for democracy and freedom. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – we will unanimously support the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to the Minister, Dr. Anzet Logar, who asked for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. First, let me say that I myself have practically followed directly developments at the level of the European Union between Member States, from some restraint to a common reaction to this aggression by Russia, to the full unity of the Member States, irrespective of past links, irrespective of the trade-trade links, irrespective of the historical links with Russia or Ukraine, in the joint condemnation of this brutal attack and of this brutal war by the Russian Federation over an independent Ukraine. And I can say that there has never been such a unity among the members of the European Union. I can also say that we can be proud Europeans. We have repeatedly discussed that the European Union is in some way a reactor to respond to the action of others. In this crisis in this war, the European Union is a protagonist. It is the bearer of the progressive policy of that policy that guarantees common international standards and which has taken the most decisive stand against this Russian aggression. If you compare the sanctions adopted by the European Union, these are the strictest sanctions in the history of the European Union, in line with the vote of all 27 members, and at the same time with the other entities of the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, the United States of America, even the strictest sanctions adopted by the other countries. In short, it is we who actually dictate the pace and we are the ones who by these measures show the violators what will happen if they think about similar activities and believe the world's crisis hotspots is something more than we have fingers on our hands. The rescue of this war and the response of the developed world to this war indicate or shapes the activities of dictators in their ideas after some empires or great countries or conquests, so once again I agree with that forerunner who said that our common future is breaking at this point and that the European Union is united here, but unfortunately I am here today when I listen to this National Assembly is not united. This National Assembly is not united, I'm sorry. I've been listening here to the deviant views of clear images. Just look at the pictures you only have yesterday on social networks last night and yet someone else here says sit at the common table, Ukraine rejects diplomacy, please. So much diplomacy as has been invested in the resolution of this conflict that we avoid being armed with a fall never before in history. You are just monitoring how European and world leaders telephone, visit and in the past, in the past months and weeks, all of this has been in vain, because obviously someone has decided not to recognise diplomacy or to have their own different powers. I'm sorry, taking the new one is not an invitation to war. [[Incomprehensible]] This is a call for war to be called for the denaciation of Ukraine. Let's make it a more brutal one as we know it in II. World war, however, has not been highlighted by anyone who in some way condemns this war with great difficulty. Now I have to respond to the words spoken by President Alenka Bratušek, who said: “For example, the Slovenian state did not take care of citizens who were in Ukraine and did not adequately help them to return home. It is unacceptable and sad that diplomats took care of themselves and left the other citizens to find themselves as they know and know." Dear Bratušek, who is not here at the moment, is an eccentric lie that someone who has been a few heads of government and has also been responsible for foreign policy as Prime Minister of the Government should not and should not be allowed to do so. Let me repeat, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided three travel information concerning Ukraine, all in good time, all in good time, all in good time called for danger first, then for the return and then for the last call that there will be no consular protection and no aid for consular protection. Come in. In the last 10 days, when the embassy in Kiev was still offering consular protection, there was no request for consular protection. One request for consular protection. Ambassador Mencin was among the last, I repeat, among the last members of the European Union, the Ambassador who left Kiev. The day after that, they bombed where he was. And it's not true, Mr Mencin, I also had a conversation with him, he wants to help those Ukrainians who are leaving Ukraine immediately. And I expect Alenka Bratušek, if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not, to make a public apology to Ambassador Mencin. That's what he owes him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u45	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a declaration. He's got the word "magic" first. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today I also wish for some unity, and by the way, welcome to all Members and Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members! I also wish that, at the point of Ukraine, politics would not break political copies because there is no need. I even believe that we will have a lot of unity with regard to the declaration that is before us, but of course great unity does not mean unity. To demand that we think in the same way as, say, Prime Minister Janez Janša or Foreign Minister here present, Dr. Ange Logar, has nothing to do with unity. And I'm going to make a dot here because I don't want to argue on this subject. So I support the declaration at all twelve points. It is good to be able to say clearly and decisively who is the aggressor, it is good that we are able to help the one who is attacked and also the other things written are such that they need to be supported. But let me explain what I'm thinking about at this declaration. First of all, of course, about the future of the European Union. I was also terribly disturbed during the preceding period when the future of the European Union was considered only too much than economic or financial power, a little less than political power, and very weak voices were, when talking about European security, the security of the European Union and the security mechanisms that individual countries and then together as the European Union have. The events of the last days, whether we observe the Bundestag or any other capital, and I also believe Slovenia, show that we will probably be able to take a step further in this area in the future. I do not believe, nor does history show that, for example, works based solely on economic power, but on their own security, but on their own unity, they have a bright future. This history teaches you that you need all three forms of power. That's the first thing I believe we'll understand. Second thing. Of course, when we observe the Russian Federation, and especially President Putin, we observe the aggressor. I believe that even though we all think that an aggressor is someone who is viewed as a country somewhere in the past as an important member of the anti-fascist coalition. And when we observe the current situation, we probably agree to have, in fact, not react in time to highways, including dictators, if you want, people who do everything they can to destroy the postulates of democratic regimes of countries, people who do everything to destroy the media, opposition and not react, is extremely dangerous for future development. I believe that even if such phenomena were more decisive and had been known earlier in the Russian Federation, the current situation would have been a little easier, at least I hope. But that's a good lesson to go on. So when we think about the future of the European Union, I believe that we now understand more about the rule of law where there is no forgiveness, what it means to defend democratic values where there can be no forgiveness, and life by democratic values. Allow me to say in the end, the aggressor is an aggressor. It does not matter if there may be no unity or equality in the search for causes, but the aggressor is an aggressor. Anyone who watches attacks on people must be aware that the victim is being watched. And I hope and wish, of course, to Ukraine, to the inhabitants and inhabitants of this country, which I do not know, that I now know through terrible images on television and otherwise that this sea, this aggression, will end as soon as possible and that we all understand that they will have our support once they re-establish the sovereign state with all aspects of sovereignty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. First, I was obliged to explain why I withdrew my signature before the committee meeting under today's declaration. The fact that I signed first clearly suggests that I condemn Russian aggression, there is no doubt about it. Why did I withdraw this signature? I withdrew it as a sign of protest because we in Levica expected that the parliamentary groups would be identified and aligned with the text of the declaration. When you dream of something like a declaration that calls for peace, you expect the power of argument and not an argument of power to prevail, the fact that you sign or don't sign it is that and you have nothing. And then we are in Levica because unfortunately this coordination has not been made three sets of amendments, because we are convinced that this text of the declaration should be drunk, upgraded, corrected. For this declaration, such as in all segments, does not offer any broader reflection of the situation in Ukraine and does not address all the real consequences of this event. And this is not a relativisation of the crisis in Ukraine as some would like to show, but there are some facts that would be worth considering and that would be worth considering. As Comrade Dejan said, unity does not mean one-mindedness. You have to understand that my language is not the language of militarization, that my language is not the language of Ambassador Grims, but we differ in some values and views. However, let me stress once again, I am personally like the client of the Left, joining the harsh condemnation of Russian military aggression, an aggression in which man can only exercise himself and, of course, there is no excuse for it. However, I believe that sanctions are not always the way to resolve them. They should be directed primarily against Putin, which is true of the representatives of the Russian and Belarusian authorities and of the oligarchs, those who make this war the most possible, not against the civilian population of those countries. These sanctions will stop Putin, and they will not stop the war. But they will punish the poorest in Russia, Belarus, Europe and around the world. The prices of the energy who have flown to the sky before that will be now, and we can see it and feel it, literally gone mad. As a result, food prices will, of course, go crazy. And as a result of such sanctions, these consequences will indeed be felt by the whole world, and they will, of course, suffer the poorest who will be joined by the army of the new poor. Is this really gonna break Putin's war? For a short time, respected and respected, certainly not - not fast enough that Ukraine would not be completely destroyed. Is this gonna bring Putin to the negotiating table? Probably not, at least not fast enough to bleed out 10,000 in Ukraine, perhaps 100,000 fighters, civilians and eventually Russian soldiers. Have such sanctions ever really worked? Remember Cuba, which has been under the sanctions of the imperialist aspirations of the United States since the 1960s, since the crisis in the Bay of Pigs. Did these sanctions break the Cuban social system, replace it with imposed American democracy, which is actually the primary purpose of these sanctions? They're not, they're just ordinary people suffering. Those who are not to blame for the geopolitical games of the great players. And these people suffer as they will, of course, suffer and suffer this time, as said above all, people in Ukraine, even in Russia, will also suffer in Europe and around the world. That is why we have proposed in Levica an amendment specifically aimed at political elites and their networks, those responsible for this conflict, and, of course, they have the benefit of it. Past experience, as it is said, clearly shows that it aims, i.e. Ceasefire and solutions to too many lives will not be achieved with sanctions, so another means of diplomatic means must be used. It is necessary to prevent sanctions that will affect workers in Russia, and also in Slovenia and in other countries. Our position is as follows. We do not oppose sanctions against Russian policies and the freezing of the wealth of oligarchs. We do not oppose sanctions against the arms industry and the ban on the export of weapons. We caution, however, that these sectors are most insensitive to sanctions and therefore no effect is expected. However, we are opposed to sanctions that would have worsened the social situation of Russian workers, pensioners, socially disadvantaged people, patients, people with disabilities, in short, such sanctions as the United States and the European Union have imposed on Cuba and Venezuela for a very long time, where you throw them under your nose so many times. And we oppose sanctions that would directly or in response to the Russian Federation affect Slovenian companies and thus their workers and workers. Instead of causing harm to ourselves and then paying compensation to businesses, these funds should be earmarked for humanitarian aid to Ukraine. We have also pointed out that the said declaration calls on the Slovenian Government to protect Slovenian information space from possible misinformation. Well, you have to be extremely careful about that. We know what the attitude of the current government is to the media, what pressures the editors and journalists are subjected to all the time, what a blow it has been and what it is [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u49	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u50	What's actually going on on public television? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u51	Colleague [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague, we have a debate on the declaration. The rest will be on the agenda for the second time. [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague, the content is here. [[advertising from the hall]] Look, if you don't talk about it, I'll take your word for it. I'll make it clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u52	I'm explaining our amendment. To understand what the problem is in this declaration. In short, in the light of the constant attacks on the work of journalists, such a dictatorship in the declaration is extremely painful. That is why we have proposed a supplement that further commits the government to the principles of freedom of speech and the press. If I withdraw, the only objective of our foreign policy should be to save lives in Ukraine. The only way to do that is to stop the fight. That is why we have also proposed that the Declaration advocate general denuclearisation and demilitarisation. War is not peace. If we really want to stop this war, one thing is clear. Weapons and more weapons will not contribute to peace. On the contrary, it will extend military operations, increase casualties and create a new Afghanistan, a new Middle East from Ukraine. Therefore, if we sincerely pursue peace, and not one more mad war, then it is the only way, not a new bloc-wide division of the world, but denuclearisation and demilitarisation of both Europe and the entire planet. The way to this is not the drums of war, but the negotiating table. The only thing that can save Ukraine and the world at this time is not Russian migils and even more, and more weapons in Ukraine, but an international UN-sponsored peace conference, where all the major players on which international balance and global stability depend would accept their share of the responsibility. Russia, America, the People's Republic of China, NATO members, EU members, countries bordering Russia and all nuclear forces and so on. It's the only way. There are no other ways, respected and respected. Until such an agreement is made, all such declarations will be in vain. In order to do so, it is therefore necessary to pursue a different policy. A policy that would completely subdue everything to the fact that conflicts really end, and to prevent further sacrifices. We are committed in Levica to the fact that, above all, NATO must, at least temporarily, give up enlargement and engage in negotiations on the reduction of nuclear and other strategic weapons in Europe. Given that NATO ensures that it will not intervene militarily in Ukraine and that Ukraine's membership is not on the table, the declaration must then be formalised and negotiations must begin immediately. And in this spirit, we firmly believe that it was necessary to set up our Declaration, which should also be thoroughly shielded from the extremely militant rhetoric of the premium, which then calls for the provision of a No-fly zone over Ukraine. Not only does it poison Slovenia in this way with militarist militant discourse, but even worse than it suggests, it is a direct path to World War III. The planet as we know it would be gone. But he would be, that's true, one single single No-fly zone. Once again, in Levi, we consistently advocate a policy of neutrality, demilitarisation, denuclearisation, anti-imperialism, whether it's American or Russian, whatever. The values of peace and humanity cannot and must not be stopped at the fortress of Europe. These are not values intended solely for blue-eyed, white - and - Christian people. But this should apply to all nations, to all religious beliefs, to all the peoples of this world. That is why our declaration should, in fact, be directed to everyone anywhere in the world where bombs are killing people right now. As Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has already said, the bombs in Damascus are killing the same as the bombs in Kiev. The missiles that fall on Gaza kill innocent old men, women, children, civilians, just like those that fall on Mariupol, Lion, Irpin, Buchi, Hark. Therefore, the path to peace is not the path of militarisation, but demilitarisation, denuclearisation and neutrality. The purpose and importance of our amendments, I think I have explained clearly enough and thoroughly, because our sincere efforts to push the road to peace in Ukraine can only be rejected by the Declaration, as it is written, in the harsh condemnation of Putin's aggression against Ukraine and the involvement of Belarus, but not by certain other dictatorships. I will therefore abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Before I give my word forward, I would kindly ask all the debaters who are reported to be discussing the content of the declaration. The content of the declaration. I hope that you do not have to read these 12 points specifically for this assembly, which are written in the declaration, that you understand them and that you do not go to areas that are not in the declaration. Is that gonna be okay? And there's something else about your colleague's amendments when you were talking about them. You did not submit them to the updated proposal. So this debate on history was the time for it on the Committee on Foreign Policy. Procedurally Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u54	Dear President, please stop teaching me like I'm a first-class school student. I have justified why I withdrew my signature under a declaration that I have sincerely contributed, but the procedure itself is one that is unfortunately sad about the declaration calling for peace. Thank you very much, and I just wanted to explain that, so I've been writing down my efforts with regard to the amendments. Thank you very much. But today we didn't invest them. Why? Because it makes no sense. If you once voted us out, you're going to get us another time, which is really repulsive and sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u55	My colleague, you're the part where you explain why you decided to do so was nothing problematic. The problem was then that you were explaining your non-amendment. Now I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Anzet Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u56	Yes, thank you, Chairman. I would like to add only one explanation that there will be no such demagogic fraud in the future with regard to sanctions regimes, if they are against sanctions because of the average person's attack. Now those who say that then do not know the sanctions that have been adopted at European Union level, and I ask you to look at what sanctions we are talking about in the first place. As you know, the European Union has so far adopted two or three packages of sanctions sanctioning top officials, including Putin, Foreign Minister Lavrov, representatives of Duma, his narrow circle, oligarche, state-owned companies operating with these bank materials with which these oligarchs operate. Among other things, we broke the lame regime for holders of diplomatic passports, the export of technology for weapons and war technology, the export of services or dual-use products. We've sanctioned that. As wide as possible. And I'm sorry, the seizure of a ship in a port or port in Italy, it's not an attack on an average citizen who's going to suffer for it. Now, if this is an attack on an average citizen, then it has a slightly distorted view of the system or direction of these sanctions. Let me do it again. Do not exploit the general impact, the aggression against the average Russian, as a reason why you do not support these sanctions or activities carried out by the Western Council or the democratic world. These sanctions are targeted, directed only against those who carry out or decide on this repression and will also be targeted in advance. It is true, however, that citizens of the Russian Federation are likely to be affected further, and in this regard this is a logical consequence if the state has such a leader as the Russian Federation. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President. Good day to you all. A respected minister and a team, colleagues and colleagues. This declaration came immediately after the outbreak of war, or without any mutual coordination, but otherwise it probably cannot. And the only thing that matters is that the declaration reflects the almost uniform opinion of all Members and Members of the National Assembly. I also understand the arguments of colleague Sukič. Everyone must have had a question and a drama and a thought of how to respond. However, the vast majority in one direction are inclined, clearly talking about how we feel about this. And despite being placed in a single position, however, it is possible to detect some deviations from the essence of the purpose of this declaration. This Ukrainian tragedy is, of course, a culmination, and we have just before it becomes a lever and a tool of pre-electional commotion and propaganda for some. I am aware that there is no place for this, but we are witnessing that some people do not realize it and it would be good for such attempts to cease, that those who have chosen this path will think about the dignity of their work and abandon it. The dramatic situation in Ukraine is a tragedy of the Ukrainian people, also a tragedy of our civilization and a threat to world peace. So it's not a question of whether we stick together and whether we stick together, we stick together, but the more people stick together, the better with the possibility of taking advantage of it in other ways. Today, at a time when the world spends billions searching for, if life is elsewhere in the universe, this same world paradoxically spends many more billions to destroy life on our planet, these are wars. And the more days go by, the more the war ends with peace talks. But when it comes to Slovenia, I think that, given its size and position within the European Union and here, I am thinking mainly of the reactions and rhetoric of the Slovenian government, that we do not have to play the strategic of this great war, the initial government responses are, we see today, it seemed more like an unnecessary push because we, as a two-million-dollar state, are not and should not be an arrow in the face of the world's confrontation with Russia. We are part of the European Union, but to be at the forefront of this war rhetoric, I do not think it is wise for us. Our people felt too good about whose side is the right and expressed their willingness to help and so did Europe. It's more than clear that there's still a lot of human beings left in humans, and that's good. In Slovenia we are also prepared to accept refugees, and the government circles have already announced what refugees are after years, which is unworthy and dramatic at this moment. This declaration did not clearly call on governments to abandon the selection criteria for these unfortunate people at the Slovenian borders and in the types of detention. In the Sab party, we are appalled at the announcement that for some Ukrainians the door of our country would be open, but for others, a slightly darker skirt and a different belief. I do not mean to say that the government's Twitter messages have been sufficiently eloquent, and there have also been some cases in Poland where refugees who emerge from the desired pattern of the European Union's nobility have been harassed and bullied. [[Incomprehensible]] While the government expects us to applaud on the average its idea of banning imports of oil and gas from Russia, I wonder how they will deal with the problems that I will soon face with energy, with the remaining industry, with the affordable fuels, in households all need energy and we must not, because we do not have our own resources, dry up their own supply. If the answer to the purchase of Russian gas is directly from Hungary, we need to be even more concerned. Why am I saying that? Because I think the price of this Slovenian slapper Putin must not be too high for Slovenians and must not be any higher than the price we are prepared to pay. And we must not be driven thirsty across the water from the realization of an agreement that the current government may have with a country that will not announce these sanctions to Russia. Slovenia must not fall into energy dependence on friends whose friendship has been questioned by at least two thirds of Slovenia. Slovenia has the opportunity to help in other ways not only by sending weapons. Weapons rarely help, is the last solution, and I don't think it's the best way in our case. We could offer care and scholarship to all those who come to us, students, students, to study with us and thus make an important contribution more appropriate to our situation, to our views and not least to our abilities. I do not think it is necessary to point out that, together with the condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we must prevent the stigmatisation of the Russians, the people living with us and those in Russia. It is also a matter of concern to the one-time/unreasonable denial of Russian culture, which is part of our common Slavic and culture of our entire civilization. We're not against people of any nationality, I think we all agree, but they have been, and I'm afraid there will be cases of people being bullied or eliminated. The Russian, living in Slovenia, is the same as it was two weeks ago. I think that a signal from the government, from the foreign and internal ministries, should also come from the National Assembly to make a clear separation here, against whom we are and what we condemn and who we condemn. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is a magician. Alenka Bratušek misinterpreted, also by trying to “relativise” the responsibility of his department and the Government for ineffective “sport” in the evacuation from Ukraine. Alenko Bratušek was approached by concerned relatives of our people, who did not receive any information, let alone support for leaving Ukraine, and I think that is all she has highlighted. Therefore, at the Minister's request for an apology, it would be more appropriate for him to apologize, but, it is easier to change the thesis and throw the sand into the eyes, his warnings that we are not united in the National Assembly are also strange. I understand that he was once among us, and he probably also has this thought, but he forgot that parliamentary space is a place of exchange of different opinions and views, and it is a generator of democratic processes and free society. Another shot to the knee, I'd say. We're used to it, but it doesn't make sense today and in this darkness. In the SAB, we support the declaration and hope for peace as soon as possible. Europe is united this time, as opposed to 2014, when we adopted sanctions against Russia for Crimea [[?]] . There was no unity back then. It's different now. Our thoughts are with Ukraine, with the Ukrainian people and their suffering. Our thoughts are also on the side of world peace and expectation that history in the number of world wars will stop at number two and in 1945. In the SAB we support the declaration, but I cannot pass through the everyday thought of many of my Ukrainian friends, so I will conclude with the word that we have spoken several times among our associations, with the desire to bring peace back to Ukraine, “let’s” [[?]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. If the declaration is accepted, it's our view, isn't it? It's not anyone's fault, it's ours, Parliamentary. We continue the debate. The word is Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will not be long because it seems to me that today's session does not need some long debates, especially if these are not focused on the spirit of peace, but are rather, in a way, sow hatred and dissension, but to move as soon as possible to a vote that will also show who in some way feels solidarity with Ukraine. And, now, as a member of this National Assembly, of course, I wish that, despite the politicalisation at the outset and even inappropriate performances in view of the situation, this National Assembly would also be able to support the declaration of the current situation in Ukraine in a uniform manner. This is important, of course, because we give some symbolic support to the Ukrainian nation, that it is not alone, and that we understand their pain. This, of course, also joins the other countries, as well as the European Parliament, which has already endorsed a similar declaration and thus, in some important way, support Ukraine's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. For we need to know that the Ukrainian nation is, of course, the only one who can choose his own path that can choose what geopolitical environment he wants to live in. They therefore solely decide whether they will join international organisations as a country and, of course, they must do so in peace, and it is therefore important that we accept this declaration today. Now, I would also like to say that if anyone among the Member States of the European Union understands the pain of the nation, we are certainly Slovenians, Slovenian people. We went through the test ourselves, when we were attacked, we defended ourselves, we also defended ourselves, we became independent, we defended our independence and independence, and of course, helping Ukraine at various levels, as well as fighting for its membership in the European Union, on our part, is all the more sincere and human. I think that the government and the foreign ministry have reacted very well at these difficult times, and it is also right that the National Assembly should show maturity at such times, and I feel that some unfortunately are not capable of doing so. The fight for free Ukraine must be aware of the fight for a free European Union and this heroism of fighting and love for the country cannot be overcome and I am confident that the Ukrainians will succeed and will fight to the end, of course, but the European Union must do everything to help and that we must do everything to help these people, both at the symbolic level and in the form of other assistance. Thank you. I will, of course, support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Let me begin by saying that I am absolutely in favour of the declaration created by the catastrophic war situations in Ukraine. After two difficult years, we woke up in a completely different Europe, a different world. We woke up in the morning, which will be written in black letters to mark our civilization, as it is the beginning of the greatest conflict after the second. World War II on European soil. The disaster is so much bigger when war rhetoric no longer knows any objections to the use of nuclear weapons. In fact, we are walking on the edge of a human apocalypse. All of these are real threats that call for decisive and prudent action by the entire international community at the helm of the United Nations. This must once again take an active role and focus all its power, energy and resources on the fulfilment of its core documents and commitments, inter alia, signed on 26 June 1945 in San Francisco. Allow me to quote the first sentence of the Charter: “We, the peoples of the United Nations, are determined to protect future generations from the horrors of war, which twice in the life of our generation, have caused untold suffering to mankind.” Today, not this time, when this force has led the UN to bring about peace, the Russian army withdraws from Ukraine and ends the suffering of millions of people. At a closed joint meeting of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Policy on 25 February, a very high degree of unity of parliamentary parties was expressed as regards the condemnation of the brutal attack by the Russian army on Ukraine. At the meeting, I also proposed that the Republic of Slovenia should take the initiative to refer to the General Assembly of the United Nations, which would deal with and condemn the Russian invasion. This later took place on a proposal from Ukraine, with broad support from the international community and Slovenia. We should also prepare a security conference under the auspices of the United Nations and adopt a new world peace agreement, although there is no promise of good. At the same time, world powers, together with other countries, should assume responsibility for world peace rather than promote and create new and new conflicts. Also, Slovenia and, in fact, all countries bear their share of the responsibility. Despite the upcoming parliamentary elections and the time of rivalry between the parties, these are not committed to the responsibility of managing state policy. It is the most vital questions about ensuring world peace, where selfish party interests become the most cynical ridicule of humanity and human suffering. I therefore support the initiative of President of the Social Democrats, Tanja Fajon, President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, to convene the Slovenian political summit, as Slovenia will be much easier to face with all the consequences of the unacceptable Russian aggression against Ukraine if we achieve unity on the key principles of addressing future challenges. Europeans, if you like. The European Community, or the whole of Europe, is now at a crucial crossroads. The war in Ukraine indirectly resulted in an attack on the three vital pillars on which the whole Union stands or falls. I'm talking about the security, economic and energy pillars. The question we will no longer be able to run away from is how we will ensure more independence in Europe, and thus more security. As has already been said, I absolutely support the declaration, and even more so are my thoughts, wishes and desire for Ukraine's love. Let this absurd, terrible war monster that we believed was finally banished from Europe stop immediately. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Slovenian foreign policy should be based on two pillars. The first is peace, the second is cooperation. The declaration we accept today in the National Assembly on War in Ukraine should not reflect these principles. We're supposed to get a declaration of peace, but all that came on the bench of the National Assembly is paperwork for militarization at home. This is particularly evident from the fact that the declaration is placed on one side in a particular conflict. This site is neither Ukrainian nor Russian, but the site of the Nato Pact. In doing so, it takes a position that is even contrary to the views expressed and made public by Ukrainian President Zelenski. But of course it is domestic war ravens who want to fuel war hysteria even in the form that we can read and see in today's declaration, of course, not interested. The only hold on peace that should be practiced at this time and which can actually bring peace is the simultaneous condemnation of Putin's intervention in Ukraine by condemning NATO's long-standing expansion policies in Eastern Europe, based on the netting of the conflict with the Russian Federation. This part, this second part we like to forget very much and I know why we like to forget about it, because the difference between the first and the second part is that Slovenian establishment also participates in the latter. And Ukraine has been the last victim in the last decade, which NATO has taken hostage in its strategy of surrounding the Russian Federation. Moreover, rather than allowing this tragic development to sober us in the last fourteen days, we are now witnessing the continuation of the policy of stepping up the conflict in a way that the countries within the framework of the Nato Pact and within the framework of the logic of the Pact then bring weapons to Ukraine, which, of course, will not lead to peace, will only lead to more destruction. And here is the strategy of NATO's generals and diplomats, which are embodying their logics, including the political summits of individual countries, which embody this logic very clearly. They do not care about peace, Ukraine should become a new Afghanistan, except that this time neither the Soviet Union nor the United States of America is exhausted, but the Russian Federation. And this is some logic, this is some kind of policy followed by the Slovenian ruling authority and reflected in the resolution as we adopt it today. The largest victims of this calming power are, of course, ordinary Ukrainians who are trapped between Putin and the Pact. To the generals he laughs, the military-industrial complex he has lost his hands and here I think he comes to a place with a password with which he has served centuries ago by an upright communist and peacekeeper Karel Liebknecht, that has an enemy working class at home: Russian in the form of the Autocrates Putin, Slovenia in the form of a NATO Pact and its home repurchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u66	Thanks again for saying that. I did not intend to announce myself the second time after I presented the position of our group, but after the lie that Minister Logar had said, of course, I was forced to explain certain things. And first, once again, we absolutely condemn this aggression that is being carried out in the territory of Ukraine. However, it must be made clear that this did not happen overnight. For a long, long time, we've watched what's happening in Russia, where this autocratic way of leading leads. And we look the same in other countries. We are looking at Hungary, we have seen in Italy Mr Salvini, who received a good portion in Ukraine yesterday, in France, of the ideas one party president has. And these are all the people our Prime Minister is associated with. Therefore, a warning was given. And Slovenia really needs to get on the right track, and I am sure that this will happen on April 24th. Dear Minister, I suggest you, but I can also send you, to Minister Tonin, an article on the Internet published on March 2nd at 17th on Del's website. There are names and surnames of the boys who had to find themselves. Even though they wanted help from our embassy, they called on the embassy. And you know what kind of answer they got? We don't have any more room in the cars, and you don't have a diplomatic passport to go to this convoy. That's it. I do not expect your warning to me, but I expect a warning to all Slovenian citizens who have not been provided with assistance. The State Secretary on the Committee said that several calls were made to Slovenian citizens to withdraw in time. Yes, I agree. I think he mentioned the last one on February 11th. But despite these warnings, you sent two additional Slovenians to Ukraine on 23 February. So, okay, you didn't, we didn't believe that what happened would happen, but probably people rightly expect help from our country if they find themselves there. I'll tell you again, there were calls, there was no help. When the ambassador left that town, I don't know. I think that when the last Slovenian leaves, then the ambassador with the last Slovenian who needed help should be on his way to Slovenia. These are the facts, read them to yourself. Fortunately, all these guys are safe in our country. I hope now all the other Slovenians are safe in our country. But these are the mistakes that have been made on this course of action. I told the committee, I said today in my position that these formal steps that our government has taken on behalf of Slovenia are, according to our assessment, the right ones. It is to be welcomed that the European Union is united. A few years ago, unfortunately, this unity was gone. Of course, I hope or, I will say, I believe that we all want this war to end as soon as possible and that there will be peace in Europe again. Minister Logar, one more time. No, I don't need an apology, but everyone who had to make their own way to Slovenia needs it. And fortunately, they came there alive or came home safe and sound.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would just like to point out that you've spent these five minutes on everything but the indents or the points of the declaration. None of the things you've been talking about have any direct record or notation in these twelve points of the declaration. The word is given by Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. Look, Ambassador Alenka Bratusek said at the outset that she would respond to the foreign minister's lie. Tell me the lie of the Foreign Minister. I quote your words, those words are a lie, that's true. But my response was to your lies because you said, I quote again: “The Slovenian state, for example, did not take care of the citizens who were in Ukraine and did not adequately help them to return home. It is unacceptable and sad that diplomats took care of themselves and left the other citizens to find themselves as they know and know." As I mentioned, the Republic of Slovenia sent three notices to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in which, lastly, it has been made clear that due to the war conditions, it is no longer able to offer consular protection. 10 days I think it was before the Ambassador withdrew to safety, as I say, he withdrew after the European Union delegation had withdrawn. [[…]] In short, he persisted longer than the ambassadors of the European Union insisted, further testimony to the fact that he wanted to stay until he could. And once again, we have repeatedly pointed out that about 50 to 80 Slovenian citizens were staying in Ukraine, that they did not respond, and some said they would stay there while we could offer consular protection. But when we couldn't do it, we couldn't do it anymore. But that is why we have previously informed everyone who is in the territory of Ukraine in due time. This is what we always do in similar situations, and this is what we will always do. However, I believe that someone has also underestimated the real situation in Ukraine, that they did not respond in time, and I believe that it is likely that someone too wanted to make a newspaper article, but I can assure you that the Embassy in Kiev has done everything in its power to help all those who could help them. And to use this for political debate here in the National Assembly, I'm sorry, but it's under criticism. But he's under review.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u69	Thank you very much. A replica? If there's a replica, but with regard to the declaration, colleague. So we don't talk about things that aren't in the declaration again. You have the floor. Here you go, if you like. Only as regards the content of the declaration, if anything has been clarified. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u70	In fact, the Minister confirmed that the Slovenian Embassy of People had let people down. And it's sad, and it has something to do with the declaration that we accept today, because if there was no war, we wouldn't accept the declaration. And yes, the Slovenians need to apologize for not providing help with their return home. And that's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u71	My colleague, what you're talking about has nothing to do with the declaration. I warned you earlier, you disobeyed, so I'm giving you a warning. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. I hope that we are all aware in this Chamber and that even more so is the enormous responsibility of the politicians currently in the European Parliaments. And that unilateral declarations merely pour oil into the fire and let me say, I will not sign it and neither am I, because I am convinced that only a neutral situation in this conflict can solve the situation. And, of course, everyone's call can solve the situation. And, of course, the call of all parties to dialogue. I am a member of the Council of Europe, and I must tell you that we have discussed the exclusion of the Russian Federation when their voting rights have been removed, because the European Union is established precisely to avoid war. And the Council of Europe is just an institution where we're supposed to talk before the weapons start. They did not talk to the Russians because Ukraine, together with the United Kingdom, kept refusing any conversation. I do not advocate Russian aggression to understand each other, but it is always necessary to look at the causes not only of the consequences. And when we talk about the attack, it didn't happen because Mr Putin woke up one morning with a bad will and decided to steer thin against Ukraine, but because of, I don't know, at least eight years of long-standing conflict, which is, he never came to the point that he could sit down at the negotiating table and talk. Now you're saying it was an attack on sovereign states. And let me remind you that we always somehow buy the entire argument of the United States. And here I strongly oppose it. Then the United States and the United States have caused a huge war in the last, say Israel has already attacked the Palestinians and we are sitting in the Council of Europe together and talking. And they have arguments about why they actually kidnap Palestinian children and why they belong to them in Judaism: because they really are children, but someday they will grow up. U.S. attacks on sovereign states are happening all the time, and we've never condemned them in this way, these attacks, but when we see refugees, we jump right into the air, and it threatens us terribly. To give you the following: Lebanon 1958, Cambodia 1967, Vietnam 1965, Grenada 1983, Libya 1986, Panama 1989, Iraq for the first time in 1990, Somalia 1992, Haiti 1994, Yugoslavia 1999, Afghanistan 2001, Yemen for the first time in 2002, second time Iraq 2003, Somalia for the second time in 2007, Pakistan 2004, Uganda 2011, Libya for the second time 2011, Syria 2014 and so on. Why, then, did we not accept any declarations? And why, as soon as this attack occurred, which I of course condemn, why did we immediately lose all contact with the Russian media -- what kind of blockade is that? - and get the BBC? We know that when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, there is still a very intense mix of wieners in Slovenian politics. In short, why does one Finland realize that it is its neutral position that represents the highest level of security? Austria, too, Switzerland and so on. And now we think that with some declaration we will convince Mr Putin that he will withdraw. Do you know when Putin says he's going to denacify Ukraine, what does he mean? What did the neo-Nazi Azov do? And now that the foreign legions have arrived. What are foreign legions doing in the territory of the country where the war is raging? Never a good thing. And the paramilitary groups that we read, and the boasting of some defender from the patriotic Croatian war, who gladly came there to help do the same. And these people, these paramilitary groups, you know, are very, very dangerous. The Nazi SS, Stepan Banders, are setting up a monument. Of course, you can now support such a policy because we have also erased the boundaries between who was in World War II, unfortunately we always go back to which side. And Azov, the neo-Nazis joined the National Guards. And, conscience, we won't even talk about media freedom. We don't even have reports here, we have very one-sided reporting [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u73	Colleague, please focus on the content of the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u74	Content of the declaration. If You Look at “The Forgotten Potential of ” [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u75	Points 1 to 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u76	“Ukraine’s energy reserves” from 2020, this is the Harvard International Review online magazine, you will know that Ukraine is full of oil, gas, lithium, coal and other mines, and these are usually the reasons for war, so our neutrality and, above all, the call for peace must be based on diplomacy and not on such unilateral declarations. [[…]] It is very important that we know that a country rich in all mines falls so far as not to talk to me about some exemplary democracy that we have dealt with several times in the Council of Europe. You know, it wouldn't be a woman, I was very hurt when we had breast-feeding in Egypt during the two wars, and they sold their milk to leave their babies at home. Ukrainians are giving birth to children officially for the West. Such poverty is that they must save their families. You know, there's something very wrong here and we can't, really, we can't support [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u77	Colleague, please go to the content of the declaration
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u78	Content of the declaration is this scenario [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u79	From points 1 to 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u80	Allow me. War and the sending of weapons, whatever and any country, is an extremely dangerous scenario and policy, such as, unilaterally, it pushes us to the brink of nuclear war and who will answer to the Slovenes and Slovenes and our descendants if we get involved in some war that is not ours and that is, you know, a very, very important thing. In Ukraine, half the salary had to be paid only for the heat, Covid destroyed everything. The economy, poverty, corruption, and now saying that Putin should just back off, it won't work, no matter which side we're on. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u81	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u82	That's why he's calling Jeremy Corbin. [[…]] [[?]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u83	My colleague, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u84	The Portuguese are calling. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u85	If you're talking about the content of the declaration. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u86	The content of the declaration, of course, is one that I will not support and I am talking to you about the reasons why I will not support. Because the declaration is based on a unilateral BBC report that we watch on our national television. But when I mention independent media like Harvard International Review, let's say I don't stick to a declaration. It's very dangerous to put yourself on one side and the only thing I'm calling for is a call for peace, a call for diplomacy, because smoking, any kind of smoking extra and getting involved in this. [[?]] The conflict for Slovenia means very bad. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And don't think, sanctions, do you think the Russians will be so hurt by sanctions? The Slovenians will be affected by sanctions and by the citizens of the European Union. We're already running out of food, we're running out of gas, they're columns, they're getting more expensive, and it's gonna get worse. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u87	My colleague, please, for the last time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u88	Declaration [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u89	Last time, I'm warning you, [[…]] [[talk at the same time]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u90	For the last time, I will not support the declaration because it harms Slovenian citizens and citizens. [[sign for the end of the debate]] And the only call for peace and diplomacy is what's worth it, because we're going to answer history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Just to remind you, the 1st point starts with a conviction of military aggression against Ukraine, these declarations, so this is not a call to war, is it, but a conviction of military attack or military aggression. On the contrary, it is written in this declaration as you spoke. We continue the debate. The word is "Jura Ferrian."
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u92	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear High Choir! Ukraine needs military, financial and humanitarian support. Ukraine also needs political support and the proposal for a declaration that we have before us, by the working body of the mother, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, unanimously confirms, this political support brings and gives. The proposal for a declaration in its first point states this: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia condemns the military aggression carried out by the Russian Federation over Ukraine, which recalls the worst violation of international law, including the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki or Final Charter, the Memorandum from Budapest and the Charter of Paris. The attack on Ukraine is also an attack on freedom, democracy, rule of law, peace and security in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union. Ukraine needs our vote. A voice that the world will see and know that the Russian aggressor, that Putin attacks, bombs, rockets residential settlements, kindergartens, playgrounds, schools, hospitals. The fight for Ukraine is more for the European Union, and in the final stage is the fight for the world as we know it today is a world of peace and prosperity and not a world of aggression and war brought by Putin, the attack on an independent and independent Ukraine. Europe is waking up, the world is waking up. With a large, vast majority, the United Nations General Assembly condemned Putin’s aggression, Russia’s attack on Ukraine. 141 countries supported this resolution, 34 of them opposed only 5. In addition to Russia, North Korea, Syria, Eritrea and Belarus. Ukraine is a rich country with natural resources. Ukraine has many natural features. Ukraine has the largest stocks of uranium ore in Europe, the largest areas of fertile land in Europe. The second largest stocks of titanium ore in Europe, the third largest gas supply in Europe, and also the third since the production of nuclear energy on the old continent. Ukraine has the largest stocks of iron ore in the world and is the third largest exporter. It has the world's second largest supply of manganese ore, the seventh largest supply of coal in the world. He's in fourth place in the world by mining. It holds third place in the world on the surface of black fertile land, totaling as much as 25 percent of the world’s most fertile land. Ukraine is the eighth largest grain exporter in the world and Ukraine has been able to produce food for 600 million people. Ukraine is also the fourth largest exporter of turbines for nuclear power plants in the world. I am convinced that we share the view that Ukraine belongs to the European Union, that Ukraine belongs to this large European family, so it has provided Ukraine, Ukrainians and Ukrainians, the Ukrainian people on the European perspective, and the European future, in my opinion, the key to the fastest possible peace in Ukraine. If we look at the current and not so long ago. In February, and until now, in March 2020, I am confident that we are facing a global epidemic, the Covid-19 pandemic, that we value health even more. As of February or March this year, I am convinced that from these days forward, when we see what is happening in the immediate neighborhood, we appreciate security even more. The war in Ukraine touched Slovenia, Slovenia and the Slovenians not only because it is happening not only in the immediate vicinity, but because it reminds us that we can draw parallels to the event in our country, in our territory three decades ago during the period of independence, at the time of the formation of the Republic of Slovenia, and at the time when we also defended this country in the war for Slovenia. I will vote in favour of the Declaration with full responsibility for the Declaration. And I urge you to do everything we can to make sense and peace stronger than aggression and war. I'm sure we can do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. One more nice hello to everyone. I will be very brief because I have explained my position and also the position of the Group when presenting my views, but I think there are still some things that still need to be said. Speaking of this Declaration, I agree, this is mainly a document that offers strong political support to Ukraine. And, of course, on a political level, it also condemns Russia's actions against Ukraine and therefore its military aggression and, in fact, the declaration of war. We see in this war, as in every one, then, if I may put it in my own way, people are pulling. And with these attacks on all infrastructure, on widespread destruction, Ukraine will, of course, take a number of years to get on its feet when this war is over. I would have estimated that the adoption of this Declaration does not constitute a unilateral move. Such declarations shall be adopted more or less in all parliaments, not only at the level of the European Union, but also at the level of the whole world. Finally, a conference at the political level, such as the Conference on Common Foreign Security and Defence Policy and COSAC, is the joint inter-political committee of all European Union Parliaments for EU Affairs, both adopted a Resolution or Declaration on Ukraine's Support and the condemnation of Russian military aggression. As it is said, as a sign of political support and a sign of condemnation by Russia. The National Assembly in this Declaration also, of course, calls for the immediate respect of the international peacock, that is, the key thing holding the entire international community to know where the border is and that we must not go across that border. Russia has crossed this border. And they must be aware, particularly those at political level in the Russian Federation, that this will have certain consequences on the part of the international community. I'm not just talking about the European Union. That is why I think it is right for the National Assembly to welcome the decision on the procedure of the international criminal court and to investigate the matter accordingly. We have seen, according to the media, because it does not matter that the Russian citizens, the public, are actually manipulated to this extent, the media are so subordinate that many people are even real and really unaware of what is going on. We've seen soldiers who thought they were going to practice. And, of course, this issue hasn't happened since yesterday. As I said, we underestimated, as we have always underestimated dictators and highways. And the European Union, too, could agree in one part that it has not always adhered to its agreement, but such things, in my personal opinion, and I believe that even in the opinion of many here, are being saved at the table and not at any time by aggression and war forecast, as Russia is saving in this case. And I think that the unity of the European Union, and also of many countries in this world, as we have seen in the United Nations, has shown that we have not only on the European continent, but at all enough wars and enough fighting. This is not, and I would like to stress that this is not the first war in the region after the 1970s, as some at European level also like to say. Remember, Slovenia witnessed wars in the region, not so long ago, and finally in Slovenia there was a ten-day war for its independence. But not in such a brutal way, where civilians are to a very large extent also mortal victims. And that must be clearly pointed out. Finally, in the Western Balkans region, things are still a bit unstable, and here today I have already called on the Minister's PSC to pay great attention to the Western Balkan countries, so that when we talk about supporting these new candidates Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, of course, at the same time allow opening, formally opening accession negotiations to those countries of the Western Balkans which have, of course, made appropriate progress. We know that some of them have been waiting 16 years to get things on track and to enable the development and, of course, the security of the entire region. I am still assessing, and I am convinced that Slovenia is a safe country. But I really don't want people in this house to be afraid of war in our territory. Please, I think it's kind of fair for us to calm down at this point and just look at a picture that's completely real. Here I may stop, as I say, I myself will support the issue, as I have supported the preparation of this document and also signed it, because it seems right for us in the democratic European Union to place clearly on the front of our values, our unconditional awareness of respect for international law and of course territorial integrity in the European corridor, which, of course, also belongs to Ukraine and, finally, not only in the European corridor, every sovereign and independent country that has become this with recognition from the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dear colleague and colleagues! First of all, thank you all, especially the professional services of the National Assembly, who have prepared the appropriate text of the declaration on the current situation in Ukraine. Members and Members of New Slovenia have signed the declaration, and we are also co-signers of the request to convene this meeting of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues! We have gathered for the sincere support of Ukraine. In our minds, especially in the last 14 days, Ukrainian children, mothers, parents and the poor, millions of unfortunate people fleeing their broken homes in Ukraine. With our solidarity and human love, we want to wipe out at least some tears. I am pleased that this Putin aggression, this fratricidal war, has united the European Union and the entire democratic world, united in the condemnation of Putin's actions. Some 42 years ago, more precisely in 1979, the writer of Dela from Moscow Tit Doberšek for Work wrote an article entitled For the Soviet Union was camping a little more. In this article he hid the acrostics, which reads: Fear the Russians. He caused the wrath of Soviet diplomacy, and at home he triggered a receptive reaction. He had to pay a fine for the acrobats and was sent as a correspondent in Nairobi. Note, this was during socialist press freedom. The day before Putin's visit to Slovenia, on 29 July 2016, this visit was intended to be exclusively a hundred years of Russian chapel, which by the way is built according to Ukrainian architecture. At that time, I was president of the Committee on Foreign Policy at the press conference, saying that we do not want Putin's quasi-democracy of democracy, that we do not agree in any way and condemn his military contingent of Crimea and the destabilisation of Donbas. I have estimated that Putina is this moment, so it is very appropriate on 30 July 2016 that in the heart of Europe he has received a stage from which Urbi et Orbi in Ljubljana, Brussels and Washington tells us how fragile and unique the European Union is and that he is not an actor of global importance. Unfortunately, the visit was not exclusively of a pietically commemorative nature, but of Putin's demonstration of influence in the countries, today's country, which is a member of the European Union and NATO, so I also refused dinner to honor a controversial guest in Brdo. Ladies and gentlemen, February 24, 2022 marks the turning point in the history of our continent. The worst war in Europe began after 1945 with an attack on Ukraine by Russian President Putin in cold blood. Putin's army kills innocent people, children, women, old men and destroys their homes. Today, more than three million people are fleeing from Ukraine. Because it is the most brutal way to violate international law. Nothing and no one can justify it. Horrible images from Kiev, Kharkiv, Odessa and Mariupola show us the true face of Putin. The terrible injustices, the pain of the Ukrainian people, all of us are deeply hurt by the Slovenians and us Europeans. Europe is a project of peace. It's a project that's never finished. This is a project that needs to be constantly fought and pursued. This is a project, a European project that has brought peace, prosperity and unprecedented democracy, but is now under question. Now we know that safety is not self-evident. We need a strong European Union as never before. This is what our citizens deserve, and this is what the wider world expects. Once again, we must consolidate the values of equality, solidarity, human dignity and freedom. Serving mankind is a duty equal to that of our own nation. We are building free Europe not only in the interests of free peoples. We must also set an example of unity and brotherhood for the countries of Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans, which are an inevitable part of a living Europe. Every step we take in this direction will be a new opportunity for them. They need our help to make big changes. Europe must not be just a geographical group of countries classified side by side. Europe must become a community, or different nations, which are linked by the same defence and constructive effort. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement process of the European Union is the most powerful political tool of the European Union. Happy to know that just a few days after Putin’s aggression, the European Union has changed and has become a awakening giant. In less than a week, the European Union has stood up as a global power to run an international campaign against Putin. We know why we're fighting. After all, it's our own history. We are working for peace in Europe. We will never accept the use of force as a political instrument. We will not rest until peace is assured in Europe. Our greatest power is our alliances. If we want the past 30 years to be more than just a historical exception, then we must do everything we can to preserve the cohesion of the European Union, the power of NATO to establish even closer relations with our friends, partners and all those who share our beliefs worldwide. And we return to our roots, to our roots, which define our future. The Ambassador and Members of New Slovenia will, of course, support this declaration unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Ukraine needs to be helped. Especially because this war is characterized by the worst brutality and bestiality led by Putin, the proud heir to Stalin and Hitler. Vulnerable groups, children, pregnant women, the elderly, the sick, the disabled, but also the men on the battlefield suffer. Ukraine needs to be helped. Also because the fight for Ukraine is the fight for democracy. If hegemon is maintained, what happened in Russia, it is turned into a beast, there is no mirror to be set by other thinkers, the opposition. The message of this declaration is also a call for the preservation and development of democracy, for it is the best marriage for humanity and peace. Ukraine must be assisted by all means. Glory to Ukraine. Of course I will support this declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I myself will have great responsibility to support this declaration. Of course, thank you to all those who have prepared it. Thank you to the Foreign Ministry, Minister with the entire team, of course thank the Government for sharing or helping with all its experiences in these extremely difficult times, of course, the country of Ukraine and consequently the whole of Europe. Of course, I think it's often when you talk to someone that this war is very far away from us, but it certainly isn't. It's very close. Of course, sometimes when you talk to someone, you feel that this war is only in Ukraine, but it certainly isn't. It touches all of us, all of us citizens and citizens living in the European community, and of course, if there's anything bright about this candle, it's that after a long time, of course, in the European Community, we were able together to resist this great evil. Of course, I certainly condemn such actions, such actions, particularly those of the Republic of Slovenia, I cannot understand that someone can decide on such courageous acts. Now in the European community, in Ukraine, people, citizens and citizens have been building bridges, apartments, schools, kindergartens, cultural homes, halls, of course, fields from which we receive food for most of the world, residents and residents of this world. Someone's 24. The 2nd of the previous month decided to destroy it, destroy homes, destroy towers, bridges and kill young and older. Of course, I am disgusted when I look at it, and I am especially aware that this is not far from us. I repeat once again that I will strongly support this declaration, which is on the table of the National Assembly, but of course I also continue to encourage and support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, our President, the Foreign Minister, to help Ukraine with all their experiences and to help the European Union, of which we are also part of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u102	Mr. President, thank you very much. This unfortunate date, which we have heard several times today on 24 February 2022, I also assess that in these first Russian aggressor military detonations in the territory of Ukraine alone and sovereign, the foundations of the security of democracy, freedom and peace throughout Europe were also shaken. This is the biggest violent military operation, of course, with commercial weapons after World War II, and of course it is the worst possible violation of international law. It's too much to say, we all know that war is actually an excess evil. As far as the declaration itself is concerned, it is clear that this Russian aggression against Ukraine's territorial integrity, that it is clear in this declaration that this decisive condemnation of violence, violations of international law have also been addressed here by all leaders of the European Union who have already demanded the cessation of all military operations in Ukraine and the withdrawal and withdrawal of military forces as well as equipment, while respecting Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence. [[Incomprehensible]] What are we going to do with this declaration by Slovenian parliamentarians today? I believe that by adopting this declaration on the current situation in Ukraine, we will, in particular, join these determined responses to the wider international public in support of this sovereign independent territorial integrity of this country and at the same time condemn Russian aggression and hope that this unsustainable violence, irresistible hatred in Ukraine's territory, will soon end. At the same time, it is also an invitation to our Slovenian Government to continue humanitarian activities to support Ukraine's European perspective and also to protect our Slovenian information space from the whole pleia of possible malicious issues such as misinformation, cyber attacks and here also in the background this hostile Russian Federation would be. Now, in this completely unprovoked attack, this attack was really unprovoked, civilian populations dying, elderly people dying, unprotected children dying, women, mothers. In neighbouring countries, war refugees from Ukraine, from virtually all of Ukraine now, are likely to go to millions. It is indeed a terrible tragedy on the ground of Europe, which must be stopped as soon as possible. I would like to point out that it is clear that Putin's regime is not the same as the Russian nation. Putin's summit, which actually cooked this war, is not the same as a healthy-minded Russia, which certainly doesn't want a war. I think it was just yesterday that these Russians living in Slovenia protested, I don't know about Presherec or where and they don't support this military aggression. Now, at the end of February, as the first Member, I have stepped out of the National Parliamentary Friendship Group with the Russian Federation. Why? The deputies there, of course, legitimized this when they supported Putin's aggression or aggression decisions, which, of course, is unacceptable, and now, at the level of Members, we can no longer have friendly relations with a supporter of aggression. Today this group of friendships at the PDO was also officially abolished. Now let me finish. Each of us can do so in terms of the humanitarian assistance of Ukrainian citizens by its own ability, according to its own efforts. I was honored and, at the same time, moved to the depth of my heart when I coordinated this first arrival of young Ukrainian football players from the Leva Football Academy that we had, then settled in the refugee centre in Logatco, they were very grateful. Also this coach Vladislav Longu was very grateful the children were sleeping in the last days in the bunker over them all the time and when they come to safe Slovenia they are very grateful. I will support the proposal for a Declaration on the current situation in Ukraine with additional momentum and, of course, from a purely human point of view, I would like this sea to cease as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u103	Thank you very much. As last reported, he's a mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u104	Thank you. Let me shed some light on today's subject. There are two reasons, in fact, if we take a good look at the reasons why we are here today. The first is the grave, a brutal attack by Russia on the neighbouring internationally recognised independent country of Ukraine, which is contrary to all international acts, which, of course, the democratic world knows today. It is contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, contrary to the Paris Agreement and could even be listed. That's the first reason. Why did this happen? Because the Russian leadership's decision was based on a false assessment that within two days all obstacles would be removed, that they would take full power, that the Ukrainian government would collapse and leave the country and declare a complete victory on the third day. This even happened in part because one of the agencies accidentally published even some talk about winning, which, of course, is not and will never be. For what is the second reason that we are here today is that the Ukrainians have resisted aggression by armed fighting, they have rebelled in the way that international rules and international law give them in full and of course legitimacy is the independence of their people. Why did this happen? In my opinion, too, because they remember too well the Chlodomora 7 million Ukrainians and Ukrainians died in it at the time of communism or the Soviet Union, and then the privileged and all the other foreign ways that were applied to the Russians in Ukraine and which they did not forget. The situation is completely different than anyone imagines. Let's say a place in the south where the worst fights are taking place is a completely Russian-speaking city. [[Incomprehensible]] The Russians imagined they'd be healed there, but they actually resisted weapons. It's because the Ukrainians are defending their sovereignty that we're here today. In the introduction, I stressed that many are parallels between the Slovenian independence and the defence of Ukraine, mainly in fighting and fighting both sides against a powerful enemy. In Russia, they are about as powerful against Ukrainians as they once were against Slovenia, but we won, but here is one big difference. We were alone. Those of us who were involved in the conquest remember how bad it was, because in the first stage of public support, no one really wanted to support us until they were convinced that we were able to resist weapons too, that we were able to defend ourselves. But we tell the Ukrainians here today that they are not alone, that the whole democratic world is with them, that the democratic world supports them, and that it supports the legitimacy and legitimacy of their resistance. Finally, this is also the reason why Europe has changed. Europe has changed a lot. She woke up, and this is the most positive thing that this unfortunate tragedy has brought that should never have happened. Europe has united. It has united itself in its assessment that, only as an example of the nuclear shelling in prison, threats to nuclear weapons are, of course, forms, behaviours that are unacceptable in the modern world. I would add, they are also a reflection of weakness, of powerlessness. That's weakness. Those who are weak who lose then resort to such measures. That doesn't mean he's less dangerous. On the contrary. And of course, we must be aware that this is our shared responsibility before history and, of course, before the Slovenian people, to help with our own abilities. What's the end of the story? I hope it will be as soon as possible, and the Russians are the ones who usually clean up after themselves and just hope that they will be able and that they will return to the international legal order, because that is what this is really about. It is a matter of restoring international law in its entirety without exception, and of restoring peace, a peace that provides security that enables further development and, of course, I sincerely hope that this story will never happen again, and this is another element that we must be aware of, in some way, that we are also deciding today, because the lesson of this story is that Europe must stop dealing with the perceived problems of poisoning the cultural Marxism that has lingered in its institutions, that it must stop setting itself some senseless limits that it is working less effectively in the area of entrepreneurship, economic development, economics and, of course, security in the modern globalised world. All of these are the teachings of the future. And of course, the fact that it needs strong ethics from European institutions, committed to the true values of committed, strong people who will be able to provide Europe with what is at the heart of everything, that is security. All of these are the reasons why today's decision is important, not only because of Ukraine, but also because of the whole of Europe, and of course especially for Slovenia, and for all these reasons, I will gladly support the proposed declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer of the proposal for a declaration are given the floor. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I estimate that today's debate was, however, constructive. Of course, it would be naive to expect that, given that we are ahead of the elections, that someone would not go down in any way, let's say an internal political countdown, but, however, when we talk about foreign policy and the attitude towards international problems, what it is like to talk about the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, this international position is often shaped and reflected on the basis of internal political tensions. But today is actually a special day, today we are accepting a declaration on the current situation in Ukraine. This is a declaration that responds very specifically to military aggression, to the sovereign state, and is actually the first of the declarations adopted by the National Assembly in the 1930s, namely the declarations intended to respond to a particular military focal point. That is why I hoped that there would be less of this internal political debate. Finally, the Ambassador of Ukraine is with us. And I am sure that Ukrainians are interested in the political support of the Slovenian Parliament, but they certainly are not interested, I will say, our pre-election battle and pre-election event. However, it may still be possible to go a little further through the content, even because individual Members have questioned the content in the sense that it has not been sufficiently coordinated. You know, when it comes to such a critical situation as the aggression of one country to another, then it's not a waste of time. At that time, the situation simply requires political decision makers and everyone else to act quickly. That is why the time that I gave as a proposalr and as the creator of this declaration to individual parliamentary groups was relatively short. However, this does not mean that the parliamentary groups did not have the possibility of proposing amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The amendments were proposed by that parliamentary group which assessed that this text should be improved. Now, some have been accepted, some have not been accepted, and I am sure that we have in the end, regardless of our situation, I will also say, in view of this political division and polarisation, in fact, a very good text, which very clearly communicates not only to our public, our citizens but also to the international community, what the National Assembly stands for as the highest representative body in the country. Very clearly, and there is no need to add to this, we condemn the military aggression that the Russian Federation has committed and is still carrying out against Ukraine, which is a serious violation, a grave violation of international law. In this regard, it must be said that, in fact, all greetings are worthy of this unity of the international community when we are talking about condemning military aggression. Why? Because we have even after World War II, let's say an international legal system in a way that is protected by those countries that respect the conventions, declarations, international agreements. And when this will no longer happen when this starts to break and when, instead of international agreements, declarations and similar cases, there will be a series of weapons, then we know that international peace and prosperity will be broken, and the whole world will take a long time to come to the zero point that we have been at since World War II. Furthermore, the National Assembly strongly condemns the assistance of Belarus. This is also a very important article in this declaration. In fact, any aid to military aggression against a sovereign state has been rejected. And this is not about any country, this is about a country that we often deal with by violating fundamental human rights. This is a country where citizens have been alerting them to illegal elections, a dictatorship that has been practiced by their President for many years. And it is a country that is not only blubbering at its internal and constitutional legal order, but obviously also at the international one. Furthermore, the National Assembly condemns the recognition of the provinces of Donetsk and Lugansk as independent republics. In fact, if we allow countries to continue to take over their territories in the 21st century as they did in the Middle Ages. Then it is more than clear that we are witnessing a new map of the world that not only leads many generations behind us into a very uncertain life. Such attempts must be halted immediately at the beginning, beaten to the ground and made very clear and determined in respect of the sovereignty of internationally recognised countries. Furthermore, the Russian Federation calls for immediate and unconditional respect for the international law of armed conflict and the provision of unhindered access to humanitarian assistance. Every day we follow the news that the agreed corridors for the civilian refugee are in peaceful areas. But that these agreements are not respected and that there are attacks on these humanitarian corridors, it is very important that we also define this issue in this declaration. It further calls on the Russian Federation to end immediately its hostility in Ukraine, to withdraw its troops and weapons from Ukraine's territory, thereby preventing further victims and displacements of persons and devastating consequences for the Ukrainian people, as well as for citizens of the Russian Federation. This war is one of those wars, many wars that we have witnessed in our world history, where everyone, Ukrainians and Russians, as well as the international community, will eventually lose. It is therefore very important that all military activities not only stop, but also that military formations withdraw back to their territories. If we do not make every effort to do so, but also, of course, on a political path like this through the adoption of this declaration, then the weapons will become a legitimate instrument of international law, an instrument of international policy making. It is therefore crucial that, through this declaration, we also present our policy of peace. Support for Ukraine's European perspective is further expressed. A number of questions were raised in this regard. I must say that, of course, in the public eye, the question is what happens to the countries of the Western Balkans. We all know that the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans has been one of the priorities of our Presidency to the Council of the European Union. And I am sure that this must remain our foreign policy priority. We must be aware, however, that, if the European Union is to be successful, it must not be an exclusive club, but a club of equally thinking countries that strive to achieve similar standards in the field of human rights, economic development and prosperity. And I'm sure I belong to this club also in the Eastern Partnership countries. It is therefore right that, even in this case, countries such as Ukraine show some light at the end of the tunnel, something that has not been received by the countries in the Western Balkans, for example, we are talking about Macedonia and Albania, which have made great progress, and eventually their journey to the European Union has stopped. But I am sure that if we take a position on the international perspective or the European perspective of Ukraine, this is also a positive signal for the Western Balkans. Finally, it is also very clear in this provision that we are committed to the objective of adopting a clear plan with a guarantee of membership by 2030 for Ukraine when the necessary conditions are met. So, I am convinced that this is actually another step forward for our efforts to expand the European Union in the Western Balkans as well. As for the crisis itself and this debate taking place in the public and the role of Slovenia, I am sure that Slovenia has put itself on the right side of the Western developed world, as well as many times before, in its history, and if we find ourselves here and there on some kind of list of Kremlin threats and so on, with the same thinking countries of the Western world, then I am sure that we are on the lists that advocate peace. And we must not be afraid of anything in this regard. Just in the face of such a matter as is now happening in Ukraine, as is being done by the Russian Federation of Ukrainians, we cannot afford to look at things side by side and quietly as a small nation. I will in this sense, or in this sense welcome any proactive attitude of the Government's representatives, the President of the Republic, and, finally, the National Assembly with today's adoption of this Declaration. Dearly beloved, it has been heard many times recently that you are someone, in particular it is an eyewitness of the opposition to the government to collect political points through positions towards Ukraine. This assessment can be very relative. What does that mean? Does this mean that you are likely to pick political points when citizens welcome your attitude? This, of course, is a question for the one who says it. I don't think anyone here is picking up political points or that they can all be the same, both coalition and opposition. There's no reason for anyone to pick them up more than the others. I am sure that we all hear the voice of citizens and citizens concerned about the situation in Ukraine, concerned about the situation concerning all the consequences of this crisis, which is reflected in the energy crisis, the rising prices of fossil fuels and so on. That's why there's no reason for us to share these and them here. If someone can't stand outside with someone to protest, I'm sure he can sign and finally support the statement, which is a statement on his basis, the declaration of the nation. It is that Ukraine is supported as a sovereign state to condemn aggression and that everything is called upon to find some peaceful solution to this conflict, which one country has started on another. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope that this Declaration will be supported by as many votes as possible. Every more voice, every vote of support will be a sign, not least, to our Ukrainian friends, who, believe me, are very closely following the situation abroad and very much want any support in all forms of all countries. Thanks again for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u107	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? I find that no, so I am concluding the general debate. No amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. The vote on the proposal for a declaration will take place in 15 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 97th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 5 p.m. and 17 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.51.) (The sitting resumed at 17.05)
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-09-SDZ8-Izredna-97.ana.u108	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the current situation in Ukraine. As the amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted on the home working body, the proposal for a declaration would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 97th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
