ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Jani Prednik, Carmen Furman, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Nada Brinovšek, Daniel Krivec, Franc Jurša, Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, Franc Rosec, Leon Merjasec, Lidija Ivanuša, Franci Kepa, Nik Prebil, Aljaž Kovacič, mag. Marko Koprivc from 10 a.m. to 14 p.m. and Anja Bah Žibert. I welcome all those present once again. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on changes and supplements to the law on ills found. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and two Members with the first signed Igor Zorčič. With regard to this bill, 82 Members and Members of Parliament, first-signed Igor Zorčič, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate and, therefore, in order to further explain the proposal, I am giving the proposal to the representative, Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u2	Good morning! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are aware that the proposed, I apologize, wrongly. Can I just change it?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u3	Go ahead. At so many points and agendas, this also happens. So, Mrs. Slug, take it easy!
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u4	We've been living in the middle of an epidemic for almost two years. Slovenia is currently in the middle of the fifth wave of the epidemic. By now, the Constitutional Judges have reported four times that the legal regime for the management of the epidemic is unconstitutional. However, the deadline for lifting the finding of unconstitutionality expired months ago. It is therefore high time today that the adoption of legal, professional and constitutionally coherent basis for the adoption of epidemiological measures. Non-aligned Members are submitting a proposal for a new law on communicable diseases prepared by civil society. Civil society has done a job that the government has failed or wanted. It also turned out that the Slovenian government is not mature and that the importance of the rule of law understands selectively. In the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy, the work was carried out with legal experts and in consultation with the epidemiological profession, as the Government should actually do. The Law on Infectious Diseases introduced fully follows the decisions of the Constitutional Court and eliminates the unconstitutionality it has established and ends the regime with unconstitutional decisions. The novel wants civil society, and we agree with it, to establish an appropriate legal basis for fulfilling the State's obligation to protect the right to life and the right to health while establishing appropriate safeguards to prevent excessive interference with other rights and freedoms, in particular freedom of movement, the right to assembly and association, freedom of work and free economic initiative. The novelty specifies the degree to which measures are to be taken and the conditions for their adoption. A very important element of the bill is the role of the National Assembly. This part has been prepared by civil society in accordance with what we unrelated Members have been working on in the course of the government proposal last year. Today's novels thus envision more intensive and strict parliamentary supervision of the measures taken by the Government in exceptional health crises. It also provides that the Minister shall send the proposed measures to the National Assembly for information, as well as to the Government, by means of an adopted regulation which shall inform the Minister of the proposed measures no later than five days after its adoption. However, when it comes to extending existing measures, the competent labour body must give its consent. Therefore, the greater the intensity of the measure by content and duration, the greater the role of the National Assembly in this regard. We are confident that parliamentary supervision and debate in the National Assembly will increase the legitimacy of the adoption of restrictive measures, allow detailed awareness of both political decision-makers and the general public and represent a protector against arbitrary government interventions. For us, it is crucial that the amendment retains the important role of an independent expert group involved in the preparation of measures and in the adoption of reasoned expert evaluations. If the government did not follow the expert evaluation, it must also explain this in the regulation. The latter seems extremely important to us in situations where there is an epidemic, as the measures address a large number of people who need to understand the reasons, the importance and the expected effects of the measures. The amendment therefore provides for the evaluation of the section to be published in the Official Journal, thereby ensuring clear and accurate public awareness of the circumstances and professional positions on which epidemiological measures are based. In the parliamentary group, we see the advantage of the proposed novel especially in that it has been prepared by the profession and not by politics. We estimate that at least as much as the content in this proposal is important to establish dialogue and cooperation with civil society. Contrary to the current government, we believe that civil society, NGOs and the sector can have a very important impact and contribute, so we should listen to and have a lasting dialogue with civil society on several occasions. This is also the reason why we decided to put ourselves into the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first gets the word, the Left Party, and I see that he does not have his own representative to present his position. This will give Mrs Iva Dimic the first word, which will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia is a party which takes into account decisions of the Constitutional Court. That is why we wanted to eliminate in August the unconstitutionalities established by the Constitutional Court in the 26-year-old Law on Infectious Diseases. However, in Novi Slovenija we are also a party that is close to people. Even in the then heated social atmosphere, we listened to and heard people who wanted to have a wide discussion about this law. At that time, we also said in our position that we expect the new proposal of the law on communicable diseases to help create the Slovenian public. We welcome their response in the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy and have prepared their proposal to amend the Law on Infectious Diseases. We would like this proposal first to be discussed in depth and coordinated by all the parliamentary groups and then put together in the parliamentary procedure. With this, we would give our citizens a sign that we know how to unify and step together. This is particularly important in the case of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which promotes a number of responses and feelings among citizens whenever we are treated in the National Assembly, regardless of the work we are dealing with and the articles we are dealing with. Such a joint amendment would answer the questions and fears raised by the citizens at every time in this law. The draft law provides that the Government may, on a proposal from the Ministry of Health, take measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases and to protect the health and life of people if an epidemic of communicable diseases has been declared or if the Minister of Health or the Government, on a proposal from the National Institute for Public Health, considers that there is a risk of rapid spread of communicable diseases. Three-stage implementation of measures is envisaged. At the first stage, the movement and collection of persons and the traffic of goods or the provision of services may be conditional upon the provision of hygiene and other protective measures, the transmission of personal data and the submission of evidence of immunity or non-infection. If these measures are not sufficient, a second stage may be introduced at which a regulation may restrict the transition from countries where there is a possibility of infection with communicable disease by requiring the submission of evidence of immunity or non-infection; it may prohibit the arrival of aliens who do not have a legal address to reside in Slovenia and do not enter Slovenia to exercise the right to family life; it may limit the movement to a particular area or prohibit access to a specific location; it may be limited or prohibited to the collection of persons in institutions for the conduct of cultural activities, catering and accommodation facilities, religious facilities, sports facilities, public events and public places. At this stage, however, public meetings should not be limited to expressing opinions and views on issues of public or common interest and to gathering for the collective exercise of religious freedom. Furthermore, trade in goods, services or working processes may be restricted or prohibited. Restrictions or determinations may also be made on the manner in which the teaching is carried out or prohibited. Even if these measures are not sufficient, they may be limited to public meetings at the third stage, but only at the time of the declared epidemic, in order to express opinions and views on issues of public or common importance for collecting for the collective exercise of religious freedom. The Regulation could apply for a maximum of 15 days. However, the government could also lay down infringements and sanctions for infringements in the regulation. In order to monitor and coordinate measures, the Minister of Health or the Government shall establish an independent expert group led by a representative of epidemiological science, at least composed of representatives of immunological, sociological, psychological and legal sciences and an expert on disease, which shall be determined in the light of the foreseeable complications of communicable diseases. The expert group shall, at the request of the Government or the Minister of Health, prepare an expert evaluation to be published in the Official Journal. The decision on the measures would also involve the National Assembly following this proposal. Once the Government has adopted a regulation, it should be sent to the public health working body of the National Assembly in order to inform it within five days. However, if the Government would like to extend the measure for over thirty or sixty days, the government regulation should address and vote on the working body of the Public Health Assembly by a majority of its members. However, if the Government would like to extend the scope of the same measure for more than 90 days, it should be confirmed by the working body of the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority. The same would apply to all extended Regulations for a further 30 days. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the involvement of civil society organisations and part of the legal profession in the preparation of amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases. We are essentially not opposed to the proposed solutions, but we have doubts about what such a system would bring to the effectiveness of the management of the epidemic. Some of the solutions in parliamentary supervision may be read well on paper, but when they need to be implemented they may prove to be an obstacle to the rapid infestation of infections. At the time of the epidemic or the rapid spread of a disease, this is a crisis situation where circumstances can change very quickly. Therefore, measures also need to be adapted very quickly. In the design of the system, it is also necessary to take into account that Members are not immune to infections. Under the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the question is thus raised as to how realistic the possibility of achieving a two-thirds majority is in such situations. Parliamentary control over the executive branch, i.e. the government, is an essential part of parliamentary democracy, according to the division of power. However, parliamentary supervision must be made meaningfully sure that the executive branch does not prevent it from being able to effectively protect the health and life of people as necessary. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases in the first reading to enable it to continue the legislative process. Furthermore, we would like the proposed solutions to be considered in a similar manner and to find together the most meaningful and at the same time effective role of the National Assembly in taking measures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases and to protect the health and life of people. This is our primary objective, and we must all pursue this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper is next to present the views of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u8	Nice greeting, fellow Members! The purpose of today’s novel Law on Infectious Diseases is to eliminate, to the greatest extent possible, the constitutional inconsistencies found in the law in force with our constitution. The Constitutional Court has, at the initiative of several initiators, assessed paragraphs 2 and 3 of the first paragraph of Article 39 of the existing law. This law, in its current form, still empowers the Government to prohibit or restrict the movement and collection of the population in order to prevent certain communicable diseases from entering or extending the country. Since the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases, submitted by the Government, did not respond adequately to constitutional dilemmas or, more precisely, did not respond at all, but some of the unconstitutionalities have deepened to the point that in the end, the coalition falange voted against its own law, we have before us a proposal for changes that are a fruit and a response to the chaotic situation that has been going on since last spring. First, a few words about the arguments of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has, in its judgements so far, pointed out that the executive branch should not initially deal with matters falling within the field of legislative regulation. Therefore, it is the legal regime which leaves the Government to choose, by its own discretion, the ways, extent and duration of the restrictions which it has intensely interfered with the fundamental freedoms of citizens, without question in breach of the Constitution. In addition, the old existing law does not provide for safeguards that could limit government arbitration, such as the duty to consult and cooperate with experts and to inform the public of the circumstances and professional positions that are important for decision-making. A key message of the decision is the urgency of extreme caution in limiting rights and freedoms and preventing the possible abuse of the epidemiological situation by each executive authority. The fact is that in the life of all situations it is not possible to predict and absolutely the government must have, whatever it is, the possibility of a rapid response to change, and in no way must the constitutionally protected human rights and freedoms suffer from this account. The proportionality of the measures must be a priority, and this has already been highlighted many times by the Constitutional Court. Our past experience clearly shows that the aspirations for authoritarianism have far exceeded the rule of law, which is a particular problem when Janez Janša rules. Let us remember the curfew, which continued for more than six months without any major effects, and remember the closure of educational institutions, which brought more harm to children, hand to heart, and, last but not least, all the supporters in anti-Korona packages who would have gone even more ruthlessly into civil rights and freedoms without opposition intervention. In the SAB Group, we are aware of the importance of implementing the Constitutional Court decision, so we will support the law before us in the first reading. The proposal addresses the shortcomings of the previous regime, ensuring, on the one hand, the effective implementation of the positive obligation of the State to protect the right to life, the right to physical and mental integrity and the right to health care, in a way that also enables the Government or the State to act quickly. On the other hand, the law pursues the objective of restricting human rights and fundamental freedoms resulting from such measures, subject to a rigorous proportionality test, professionally supported and, on the basis of the law already laid down, the power of the executive branch must be and should be sufficiently specific. The proposal also follows the principle of the easing of measures, which seems particularly important to us, and in the event of an urgent extension, the legislative branch of the Authority allows so-called protectors, which we have proposed in the SAB as an amendment, already in the government novelty. In cases of extension of the measures taken, the National Assembly or the competent working body will have to confirm this by a simple majority first, and in case of an extension of more than 90 days even by a two-thirds majority. The fact that we accept the law in general treatment to listen to the debate that once the law is, hopefully, suitable for the next hearing, we get the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it will also allow us to assess whether this law, namely, is a very complex subject matter, is responding to all the dilemmas of the Constitutional Court. It is also proposed that a broad public debate be held on the law. This is what civil society in particular wants, and I think they will have to listen to it in the future. Given the current nature of the problem, given all that has happened with regard to the novelties of this law, we believe that a broad and constructive public debate in such a law is necessary. In order to reach her, however, we will support the marriage in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, who will present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! So we know that the last two years have been marked mainly by an epidemic of covida-19. Many government measures, decrees and laws adopted at this time have had a significant impact on our lives, social events and economic activity. The proposal for a new Law on Infectious Diseases, which we are dealing with today, also came in response to a decision by the Constitutional Court, which found that it was inconsistent with the Constitution of certain government decrees to infect covida-19 disease. The Constitutional Court has repealed government decisions restricting movement. Thus, the anti-constitutional curfew, the prohibition of association and the prohibition of inter-community crossings were unconstitutional. The current law on communicable diseases in the contested provisions states that when measures cannot prevent or spread certain communicable diseases from becoming established in Slovenia, the Government may prohibit or restrict the movement of residents in infected or directly threatened areas and prevent the collection of people by schools, cinemas, public places and other public places until the danger has ceased. We are aware that the right to health care is the one with which we must reach all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, and the country is the one who must take such measures as are aimed at preventing, treating and controlling epidemic diseases. Our goals must be an accessible and capable health system and sustainable health care. Both of us must be assured at a time when we are facing the consequences of the new coronavirus. The proposal defines a number of measures, including the conditions for the movement and collection of persons and the movement of goods or the provision of services, restrictions and prohibitions of arrivals from countries where there is a possibility of infection with communicable disease, restrictions on the movement to a particular area or prohibition of access to a particular place, restrictions or prohibitions on the collection of persons at certain public places, restrictions or prohibitions on the movement of goods, the provision of services or the implementation of working processes, restrictions or prohibitions on the provision of educational programmes in schools, universities and independent higher education institutions and restrictions on public meetings. In the Group of Members, we are particularly aware that Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases needs to be supplemented in order to enable the State to fulfil the positive obligations set out in Article 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, namely when it comes to the right to health care. In our case, it is necessary to weigh between which measure is appropriate and how long it should last. It is also important to ask who is responsible for decision-making and, consequently, for the determination of the measures by which it affects our constitutional rights. We also reiterate the principle of proportionality under which the new Article 39 of the Infectious Diseases Act should clearly classify and define measures and their means of enforcement according to the intensity and the conditions for their application. All of this will be weighed in the next legislative procedure if the novel is to be read first. In particular, the proposal for a new Law on Infectious Diseases in the first reading will therefore be supported and, in any further legislative process, we will actively participate in the necessary improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The adoption of the new Law on Infectious Diseases records several attempts to regulate the area under constitutional review. The Constitutional Court has found, by two decisions, that paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 39(1) of the Law on Infectious Diseases are inconsistent with the Constitution and that non-compliance must be corrected within two months. Since the expiry of the deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court, it has been quite a while. Certainly too much to say that we successfully passed a democracy exam if I do a little caricature. It can therefore be seen today that it is high time to adopt a legal and constitutional basis for the adoption of epidemiological measures. The situation, as it is, creates a lack of confidence in the rule of law, which as a result is reflected in the general climate in the country and, last but not least, in the respect for and observance of the measures. This proposal authorises the Government to decide, after examination of the expert evaluation by the Regulation, other reasonable measures where the other measures provided for by the Illuminated Diseases Act are insufficient or insufficient to provide adequate protection. It provides that measures shall be progressively determined in a cascading manner, based on the intensity of their interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms. Since many criticisms have in the past focused on the lack of professional involvement in the decision-making process, this time the text provides for the establishment of an expert team which, at the request of the founder, adopts a reasoned expert assessment, which shall be published in the Official Journal. Furthermore, the bill provides for an introduction to the National Assembly and a special way of parliamentary control. On the other hand, government representatives doubt that this could be a successful response to the epidemic, particularly in terms of the question of the uniformity of the profession and a broader understanding of the necessity of adopting and extending policy measures. Of course, the government must have quick leverage to use measures when it requires the rapid spread of communicable diseases, but with certain safeguards that still allow for rapid response. So today on our benches is a renewed attempt to achieve this. This time, the text is prepared in cooperation with legal experts in order to reach the necessary consensus. As part of the re-decision on the previous attempt to adopt the amendment to the law on communicable diseases, Members of the Desus Group said that, in line with the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we would like the novels to contain the guards against the possibility of arbitrary decision-making of the Government. That is why the Members of the Desus Group then supported the amendments contained by these guardians. Unfortunately, they were not voted on. We also advocated at that time to strengthen the role of the profession, and we are pleased that the present text gives the profession greater weight, as well as that its opinion is published in the Official Journal. If we are to strengthen the confidence of citizens and citizens in the profession and measures, we need this clear and unequivocal information that we are also obliged to give them. In the Desus Group, we believe that this time the ordinary legislative procedure allows space to reach the greatest possible consensus, otherwise our positions are different and we will vote accordingly also on the appropriateness of the proposal for a law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Today, we are considering a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, prepared by civil society, which has been tabled by unrelated Members in the legislative process on their behalf. The content of the law was drawn up in cooperation with legal experts from the legal and higher education groups and, in consultation with the epidemiological profession, with the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy. We believe that this is a good practice of mutual political cooperation and public participation. By submitting, we have shown that we hear and take into account the concerned voice of citizens and citizens, NGOs, professions and civil society, who in fact have done a job that the government has failed or refused to do, even though the leadership of the state and society is the primary task of authority. For almost two years now, the current epidemic has shown numerous health - care disruptions, or even greater emphasis on those problems and shortcomings that have been in place for a number of years, but so far there has been no real will after their faster or more effective resolution. The epidemic has also addressed the problems of implementing the Law on Infectious Diseases or the shortcomings of Article 39 of the Act, which empowers the Government to develop measures to control and prevent the spread of communicable diseases. However, the government has further extended its powers under Article 39, which it gives, and has interpreted the law in its own way, so that from the very beginning government measures or decisions have been brought into conflict with the law. This is precisely what the Constitutional Court, by decision of 13 May last year, confirmed that the second and third points of Article 39(1) of the Law on Infectious Diseases empowering the Government to prohibit or restrict movement and assembly are inconsistent with the Constitution. Then the Constitutional Court, by decision of 7. Last year, it decided that the fourth point of Article 39(1) of the Law on Infectious Diseases, which was the basis for a government decree prohibiting the supply of goods and services, was also contrary to the Constitution. As a result, all epidemiological government decisions were unconstitutional in the parts in which they were adopted on this legal basis. In both judgments, the Constitutional Court has pointed out that the State authorities have a constitutional obligation to protect the health and life of people in the event of communicable diseases if this is also necessary by restricting movement, assembly, free economic initiative and freedom of work. However, it must be borne in mind that restrictions must be laid down on the basis of the law already. However, the possible power of the executive branch of power must be sufficiently specific. On the basis of the above, the Constitutional Court concluded that the Government had taken restrictive measures in a disproportionate manner and, in particular, without an appropriate legal basis and in both decisions, it had ordered the National Assembly to abolish the non-compliance with the Constitution within two months. Representatives of the government like to refer to the obsolescence of the 25-year-old Law on Infectious Diseases. However, the outdatedness of this law cannot be an excuse for the government, even though it has followed certain other countries in the neighbourhood by means of measures, that it has not followed them in the appropriateness of the legal basis. The statute of limitations of the United Nations cannot constitute an excuse for the arbitrary action of the government and for the arbitrary interference of the Government with human rights and fundamental freedoms, nor can it constitute an exemption for the fact that under the public health argument the Government has also taken measures that had absolutely nothing to do with the epidemic. Although last summer, the government prepared a proposal for a new Law on Infectious Diseases, which sought to implement the Constitutional Court decision, but the proposed government amendment of the law opened a number of legitimate doubts if the new text even eliminates the found non-constitutional situation in a proportionate and appropriate manner, in which it warned both the legal profession and civil society. In the novel, security guards were lacking to ensure the proportionality of government action or sufficient balance and barriers so that other subsystems could respond in the same way to the government's rapid and effective decision-making. As a result of these concerns and other objections, the government coalition almost broke out at the time of the adoption of the U.N.B. and, therefore, in a re-voted vote after the elected veto of the State Council in fear of the referendum and before the constitutional judgment, it collapsed itself. The marriage fell with 80 votes against, only one in favor. The Prime Minister has clearly estimated that he does not need the law because he already has enough instruments to fight the epidemic effectively. In the coalition, they like to stress that the atmosphere in society is too tense, too electrified, that such a law could be adopted because it would follow the rebellion because it would follow the referendum. In this way, the fear of public and civil society was often seen in rulings. The Prime Minister himself wrote in a recent letter to all citizens and citizens: "Let us say what we share or try to share, we can only successfully stand united. Our common enemy and enemy is a virus that threatens everything. We have to beat him. It is time to stand with covid-19 and stick together.” Of course, that's all true. But the problem is that the same person and the government authorities do nothing to calm the situation in society and relax and that people in the fight against the disease would really step together. On the contrary. They fuel and polarize the public even more, and they do not look at the opinion of civil society, intensify their relations, and communicate even more harshly with other thinkers. In this way, the government has politically bankrupted because it has led to such a severe crisis of trust that people do not believe anyone or anything else. Therefore, we would urgently need authority that people can trust. An area that will not work against the state and the people, but for the state and for the people. In all the waves of the epidemic, we had the feeling that instead of fighting the epidemic, we were fighting our own people, especially those who were thinking differently. In addition, it is recalled that by adopting illegal and sometimes pointless epidemiological measures, which have repeatedly been contrary to the recommendations of the medical profession, the government has caused mistrust and fear among people and has divided the Slovenian society. Therefore, the Law on Infectious Diseases triggers a wave of indignation and anger in every part of the public at every mention. This is why we urgently need it in a recast and constitutionally consistent form, as civil society has also recognized, which is why it has drafted today's bill, which is an excellent basis for actually achieving this. Although the government promised a new version of the Infectious Diseases Act after the fall of the UNB government novel. But autumn is long past. It has not been just two months, but it has been almost nine months since the decision of the Constitutional Court of May last year and the amendment of the Law on Infectious Diseases by the Government is still out of the question. In the meantime, the government even tried to set up a legal basis for managing the epidemic, but not for this appropriate law, namely the UNB, but tried to wrap it up in a Christmas anti-Korona package, where this content does not at all belong. Fortunately, however, opposition amendments were adopted during the consideration of the CAP10, which deleted articles that touched on the tightening of movement and collection, the exercise of work, the exercise of religious freedom and the tightening of traffic in goods and the provision of services in connection with the prevention of the spread of coronavirus. Thus, we are still in a state which the Constitutional Court has found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. Given that we have been living in the midst of the epidemic for almost two years now, that Slovenia is in the middle of the fifth and so far the worst wave of the epidemic, and that the deadline for eliminating the found unconstitutionality has already expired months ago, we are convinced by the unrelated Members, together with civil society, that the time has come for the adoption of appropriate, legal and professional and constitutional basis for the adoption of epidemiological measures. Since civil society has refused to complete and put a new version of the ZDB into the legislative process by the end of the mandate, it has decided to act on its own and has prepared a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Infectious Diseases, the author of which is the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy. The very details of the contents of the law filed were presented today by Janja Slug, so that he would not repeat himself. But I'd like to add the following about the novel. The curfew we filed is not possible. Nor does the Novela provide for a measure which would allow an individual to move just a few hundred metres from home, since we believe that this is a matter of excessive interference with human rights and freedoms and, as such, was not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia at all when it applies to all, regardless of the specifics. Nor has this restriction proved to be an effective measure. We see the advantages of the amendment's proposal as a priority for unrelated Members mainly in that it has been drawn up by the legal profession in cooperation with the epidemiological profession and not by politics. Otherwise, we initially wanted the proposal for a bill to be put into law by all the parliamentary groups with the first-signed President of the National Assembly, Igor Zorčič, but there was no undue interest in this. We estimate that this is a good legal basis, including safeguards such as parliamentary and professional supervision of government measures, which would protect residents and residents from abuse and arbitrary government measures. The concerns expressed by individual parliamentary groups at the consultation held at the beginning of December, particularly in relation to whether it should have control over biological measures taken by the Government, the home labour force or the entire National Assembly, in our opinion, can be resolved during the examination of the law. It is our opinion that the mother's working body is legitimate and capable of rapid and professional decision-making. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The unaffiliated Members, together with civil society, are convinced that waiting is enough. The deadlines for the abolition of unconstitutionality have long expired and must be reacted immediately. We are in the midst of the fifth, worst, wave of epidemics and legislation must be adopted as soon as possible with the aim of eliminating the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution and limiting the government's decision-making. Thus, the ruling of the executive body constitutes the worst poison for democracy, and it is clear that there are no more three independent branches of government, since the government takes on the role of both the executive and the legislative branches of government. This undermines the foundations of the rule of law and democracy and clearly denies the fundamental dignity of each individual and society as a whole. Otherwise, we don't know how they imagined it in the government, but apparently, the anti-constitutional situation right now suits them. On the agenda, however, we can clearly see that things are simply not working anymore, which is not surprising, since after almost two years of the epidemic in Slovenia we still do not have a roof law to manage the epidemic that would be in accordance with the Constitution. Statistics also show that the government has completely failed to manage the epidemic. We were the first in the world, once again, after the number of infections per 100,000 inhabitants and people no longer trust the country or know what is in force today and what is not in force today, which is also not surprising, as this government has adopted almost 3,000 decrees since the start of the mandate. To conclude, I would like to point out that the fact that Slovenia will live with the epidemic is still a while. How successful it will be, however, depends primarily on the legal framework that sets out the way in which infectious diseases are managed, which they are also well aware of in civil society. Therefore, they entered into action on their own initiative and voluntarily prepared the law under consideration today. The huge number of infected and sick is also responsible for the fact that the government has not been able for a long time to create an appropriate legal basis that would clearly determine what the state can and cannot do during the epidemic. Since we, together with the representatives of civil society, want to remove this unsustainable and unconstitutional situation as soon as possible, we have put in place a superstructured Law on Infectious Diseases and we hope that the novelty will preserve all the key elements and safeguards at the conclusion of the legislative process, as only so will the decisions of the Constitutional Court be properly implemented. I believe that the proposal will receive the support of Members, as its adoption will enable effective, professional, legal and constitutional management of the epidemic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Joseph Lenart. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u16	Good day, and thank you so much for saying that. We are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases of the UNNB-D, which was submitted for consideration by a group of Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič. The new law follows the objective of meeting the Constitutional Court’s decision, which refers to the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 39, paragraph 2, and Article 39, paragraph 3, of the Law on Infectious Diseases. In 2020, we were surprised by the covida-19 pandemic, which had catastrophic consequences for all countries of the world. No one was prepared for it, since we had never known this disease before. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia effectively prevented the spread of the virus and disease, but it had to respond quickly, as otherwise, people with this disease, so-called covid pneumonia, would compromise our health capacities and would have more victims of this disease. Decisions related to anti-coron measures or laws to prevent the spread of SARS-COV-2 were also adopted under the 1995 Law on Infectious Diseases. In May 2021, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia assessed the constitutionality and legality of the decisions on the temporary and general prohibition of the movement and collection of people. It has issued a decision establishing that the second and third paragraphs of Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases are inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has therefore ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to remove this non-compliance within two months and the provisions of Article 39, paragraph 2, and Article 39, paragraph 3, of the Infectious Diseases Act may apply until the situation has been resolved. The Group of Opposition Members, signed first by Igor Zorčič, tabled a proposal from the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy for a parliamentary procedure on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infectious Diseases. The proponents argue in their explanation that the law brings greater transparency, predictability and democracy. All of this, therefore, is for rapid recovery and prevention of communicable diseases. In the Republic of Slovenia, the law on communicable diseases is a central provision in the field of protection against communicable diseases. Human health is one of the most important constitutional values, and the effectiveness of protecting individual health depends on the exercise of other rights and fundamental freedoms. Health care involves values of universality, accessibility, high quality care, equality and solidarity. It seems that the current proposed amendment of the law is in fact at odds with all of the above, as well as contrary to the Slovenian Constitution and the principle of the division of power. Nor does it take into account the recommendations of the WHO World Health Organisation, which in 2017 gave guidance to improve the situation for the prevention of communicable diseases and advised the necessary corrections in our regulations and in the health system itself. No Member State of the European Union is benefiting from such solutions as are proposed in this new law, and there is no comparison in the explanation of this proposal. Moreover, the proposal is completely inoperable. Under this law, no epidemic can be tackled because it would take weeks and months for all the professions and expert groups mentioned in the law to agree on open issues. Only after the decision of an expert group could the competent authorities, i.e. the expert group of the Ministry of Health, only the Ministry of Health, the Government and the National Assembly, take decisions that effectively prevent a danger that is rapidly contagious. In the light of the proposed amendments to the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, impose measures on the condition that they are proportionate to the prevention of the spread of the disease and on the basis of an analysis of the constitutional admissibility of restrictions on human rights and fundamental freedoms. It raises the question of who would assess proportionality in this case and how long would the measures for the rapid control of epidemics be prepared, as they must always be based on an analysis of the constitutional admissibility of restrictions on human rights and fundamental freedoms. The group would therefore determine whether and when the proposed measures are appropriate and proportionate. Dear colleagues and honourable speakers! You can probably imagine how long this would take before the government or the National Assembly could decide. And since we know that the virus is not waiting, the disease can spread quickly and it takes health and life away from us, fear for our citizens is justified. Therefore, we will not act urgently after the new one to protect our citizens, that is to say them and ourselves, but to slowly process the measures and thus leave this or other insidious infectious disease a destructive march. We cannot afford this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Under such a law, no epidemic can be dealt with. If we are least responsible, we must play the role of the National Institute for Public Health, the Ministry of Health and the Government and consider whether this would work in practice. This is not a proposal for a law to protect human health and not a good amendment to the law on communicable diseases, which would effectively prevent the spread of the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is next. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u18	Good day to you all. In fact, there is a law that is prepared in cooperation with civil society with representatives of the profession who have actually done the task and work that should be done by the government. A long time ago. In August, it was the time limit for this government to respond to requests or decisions of the Constitutional Court. How many months is that? And they today hope and dare to claim that the Government and the National Assembly would be inoperable with the proposals it makes and offers such a law, if they themselves are unable to respond to the demands of the Constitutional Court from August to today. From August to today. All of this speaks only of one matter, they have no desire, will and interest to change anything under the existing law on communicable diseases, which is absurd and horrifying for the entire Slovenian society. This existing law, which is in force today, allows this government to do whatever it wants. Literally what he wants. In the name of legality, in the name of man and in the protection of his rights, especially health, and in particular what he has been doing for two years at all times: instituting his ideas, creating unrest in society, introducing control in society and everything that has resulted in the benefits of this government and this coalition. Today we were able to hear how everyone is actually in order to act and act quickly. Why isn't this government doing it in a legal way? Why doesn't he do it by respecting the Constitution and standards? For one simple reason: because he has no interest. Just today, see how many are sitting on this side and how interested they are in this marriage. Look how many of them are going to discuss this law today. Two. And that's all that's going through is this coalition that can defend such a marriage. We will certainly support this law in the LMŠ because it addresses and shows and deals in particular with the issues that this government should have long ago by constitutional decision. In this law there are things on which we ourselves have a certain view and reflection, especially at the time and in those cases when we speak, who would ever decide in what case, and what speed. We say ourselves that if at the beginning of the epidemic it was more than clear and so, at first, at least in most European countries, it was necessary to act and act very quickly. It is, of course, operationally fast that the government has been able to take certain steps and decisions. In two years, however, this government has also shown us what it will not respect and what it will abuse and exploit in its behalf. I am therefore convinced today that we must no longer allow the National Assembly to be excluded from the decision-making process at a time when an intervention at the level of human rights and freedoms is being decided. This can only be decided by the representative body of the people, and this is a national assembly and not a government. Yesterday, we heard the Prime Minister sitting behind this chair grotesquely and scoffing at the question of one of the Members who asked him whether their party or government would support this law. He said the following. Firstly, with ten anti-korona packages, they have actually addressed the problems and answers to this crisis. Which, of course, is not true and is a pure lie. And secondly, he put the Constitutional Court as a minority body dealing with some insignificant little things, and they were saving the world and the country. True, European countries have also addressed the problem by deciding and interfering with human rights and freedoms in their countries. However, he did not say that they had a legal basis for these acts. This is a fundamental difference, because this Prime Minister and this government had no legal or constitutional basis for doing so. And that's why their decisions fell, which were not minor, but very important, in the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that there was no particular reason to introduce the closure of premises, of all premises, and at the same time introduces a curfew or restriction on the passage between municipalities and similar nonsense. Moreover, they were told that every 14 days the government had to check the decisions it made. Every 14 days. They did not check for six months whether it was a proportionate and effective curfew. Who can decide these things? Today, the representatives of this coalition are scoffingly and derisively commenting that the National Assembly is too slow. There are quite a few things the National Assembly has done in 12 or 24 hours at the latest. But they forget about it. More in the debate itself. What matters to us all is that we realize that this law, which is before us today, does not bring any compulsory vaccination. It is our own personal view that vaccination in our country must also be voluntary in the case of covid, because it is too much of an intervention in human rights and to alienate what this country, this government, this coalition should do, and this is a day-long explanation and an explanation of why vaccination is needed. It is not, however, that, as usual, they prescribe compulsory vaccination by decree. And they're already playing with that idea. We'll never back this up on our own. We assure you that, in the first reading, we will let this law go through, because this is the only way that there will be a wider debate, and at the same time we will say out loud whether this government and this coalition will come with the crazy amendments that will only make this law worse, and we will begin to intervene in the rights under cover of human security, the protection of the people and similar nonsense that we hear here repeatedly from the first bench, we will also reject the law. The National Assembly should have long ago assumed the responsibility and responsibility for human security through democratic processes, as the Constitution says, not on the basis of coercion and command and violations of the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The last position of the SD Group will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The deadline for the abolition of the non-constitutional paragraph 2 and 3 of Article 39(1) of the Infectious Diseases Act imposed by the Constitutional Court has long expired. It is now more than obvious that fundamental constitutional principles such as the rule of law, the principle of the division of power, are unfortunately irrelevant to this government. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has found that the unconstitutionality of almost all the government measures it has taken to contain the epidemic. And even lower courts have already ruled in several cases that the government did not comply with the law. Unfortunately, as this government has somehow turned to the provisions of our Constitution, it has not even sought to make appropriate amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases, which would eliminate the unconstitutional unconstitutionality of the provisions. Instead, they spent all their time searching for solutions in order to really circumvent the legal provisions. Therefore, by ruling alone, by decrees, by means of substantively empty laws and without an appropriate legal basis. Social Democrats, we thank the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy for preparing what unfortunately politics did not know. The basic objective of the bill is to remove the non-compliance of provisions with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible and to establish solutions that will be generally useful in the event of the occurrence of previously known infectious diseases and in the event of a new, professionally unexplored, communicable disease. Thus, we will not oppose the proposal of the law. However, it should be noted that, unfortunately, this proposal, in our view, still confers too much power on the government, because it still allows it some form of under-law rule when it allows regulation to rule, so it is only another definition of the same way of decision-making and interference with human rights and freedoms, for which, in accordance with international law, our Constitution is allowed only and only to interfere with the law. Under-laws may only prescribe in more detail the matter under the law, and interference with human rights and freedoms must not be based on a sub-law, whether it be a decree or a regulation. This government has, unfortunately, been acting independently and voluntarily all the time, rejecting the National Assembly, unfortunately no one is responsible for anything. Fundamental human rights, such as freedom of movement, freedom of assembly, association, the right to education, are limited without public debate and without the inclusion of a parliamentary part of government that is simply derogated from under this government because it does not have the right to decide on such important issues as the protection of human rights and freedoms. I am sure, and I have repeatedly reiterated this in my views and debates that such important issues should be regulated by law in accordance with the rule of law and the principle of democracy. The laws are passed by the National Assembly, not by the Government, but by the National Assembly. While the Constitutional Court in its decision allowed the executive branch to restrict fundamental human rights, it must have a clear and specific basis in law, at least a minimum content, in accordance with the principle of legality. We believe that today, with ideas and views, we will find some common consensus on how to improve and finalize the law in the second and third readings. Some lawyers have already sent comments on the bill. For example, lawyer Primož Bavcon wrote down, citing: “It is unacceptable to regulate such measures as the proposal for a law by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It also contains a proposal for a law of certain provisions which are inadmissible in terms of the protection of personal data, some do not comply with the lex cert standards, others are non-lifelike in terms of their effectiveness and the need for a rapid response to the problem addressed.” The Social Democrats have already pointed out in the bill a certain competence to decide only one working body in the National Assembly, this is the Health Committee in cases where the Government wants to extend the measures for more than 30, 60 or 90 days. Therefore, only members of the Health Committee will decide on the measures, and not all Members and Members of the National Assembly, which we believe would bring back a derogation or exclusion from the work of the National Assembly, as well as the time pressure, we think there is no excuse not to call a predator. The fact is that the epidemic affected countries around the world, and most countries had to adapt their legislation to measures, since none of them expected such a large scale as this epidemic had received. Even though it is most important in this story to remain healthy, this must not become a cover for continuous systematic and intensive interference with fundamental human rights and freedoms. Such interference must never become a matter of our own free will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the Group Members and following a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members of Parliament who have been tabled for the debate is shown on the screens in the Chamber and the entire order of the panellists which have been tabled is shown on the internal side of the National Assembly in the section Poimenska List of Discussants. While the order of the panellists declared may vary further during the course of the debate. Before we begin in the order of affairs, Mrs Janja Slug, the proposer, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am pleased that there are not some, but other than one of the parliamentary groups, where, on the basis of the Prime Minister's reply to my question, we are really looking forward to it, but in the next debate, I will also tell you why stupidity is what the Prime Minister said and what the biggest coalition parliamentary group affirms, and I will also reject it. First, we must all remember why civil society has become so active in this area, why it has taken time and tried to write down what we have on our tables today. The current Law on Infectious Diseases is unconstitutional according to the judgments or decisions of the Constitutional Court. Why? Because it gives the government too wide an opinion that in fact the government can regulate and regulate issues that are the legislator's issue under the existing law. So the legislator in this country is the one who has to determine where, for how long, some epidemiological measures may apply to a large area. The law should also contain safeguards to really limit the government's discretion. At this point, the government is doing what it wants, and apparently, as does the largest parliamentary group, it wants to keep it that way. This is of course very comfortable, it is very written on the skin of the Prime Minister, and therefore, according to these expectations, the views of the largest group of Members are as they were presented. I have to say, when I received this proposal before me and when I read it, it seemed to me that, in fact, all of the difficulties that we have been facing for two years are being resolved in a rather simple and, above all, feasible way. In my opinion, the proposal is preposterous and shows that it has been put into considerable effort and quite a bit of time. Let me read who participated in his preparation so that we do not blind ourselves to whether it is unconstitutional or unconstitutional, how it should be and so on. During the preparation, the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy worked with a number of experts. At least ten people were constantly working on the marriage, and at the same time they also held several rounds of consultations with epidemiological and other experts. The important things are, of course, those names that have been participated in and read by: Prof. Samo Bardutzky, a professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Alenka Shelih, a professor of merit at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Katja Filipčič, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Jerca Škerl Kramberger, a professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Polonca Kovac, a regular professor at the Faculty of Administration of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Jerca Škerl Kramberger, an outstanding professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Barbara Rygelj, Institute for Cultural Diversity Open. These are just some of the names that worked here. Even in the words of the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy, it has been devoted a very long time, very many rounds of coordination, and from this point of view it is the legal profession that has already said that the solutions enshrined in the law stand. In any event, I believe it is important to hold this debate today and it is important to continue the legislative process, debate and coordination. If it turns out that we feel that some things need to be corrected if we are to unite on whether these matters will be decided by the parliamentary working body or whether we are actually going to a solution to the plenary meeting, such things need to be discussed absolutely and solutions need to be found. But back to some border. If and if it turns out that the intentions would be different, that the intention would be in the opposite direction, then we will not support the unrelated Members of this kind. The law, as it is said, stems from the view that both dilemmas need to be balanced. The first dilemma is the obligation of the State to protect the constitutionally guaranteed right to life and to the physical and mental integrity of healthcare. How does he do that? Do the action. If possible, quick action. On the other hand, balance with human rights restrictions, which must be subject to a very strict assessment of the proportionality test at each intervention. As a result, the law, as drafted by civil society, provides for some degree of action in cases of epidemics. In particular, the Government may, if other measures are not sufficient, impose certain measures, which are laid down in the law, on a proposal from the Minister of Health. In the first phase, the nicest measures and then the ones that are then perhaps a little more rigorous. This is beautifully written in the new Article 39. I will read because there are already some electronic messages that oppose the proposal. I'll read that we'll know what's really planned here. In the first question: taking into account hygiene and other protective measures, the transmission of personal data to a person responsible for public or private law, the submission of appropriate evidence of immunity or non-infection. These are the three measures listed here, but they talk about what can actually be done in the first phase. And these are exactly the measures that apply to us today, and we have taken them as part of our everyday life: washing hands, disinfecting, wearing masks and presenting PCT conditions. The measures provided for in this Article must also be necessary, appropriate and proportionate. In doing so, the government must follow a professional evaluation of the section, which must be made up of different profiles: epidemiological, psychological, sociological, legal and so on. Above all, this section must prepare its proposals and also publish them so that the general public can see what the section has proposed. If the Government fails to take them into account or fails to fully take them into account, it must give an exact reasoned explanation as to why. But the condition for all of this is something we don't have today, a declared epidemic. Only when the epidemic has been declared can such measures be taken at all. The regulation then adopted by the Government should include in its explanation the legal basis for the measures, the professional basis prepared by that expert group, the duration of the measures which are not and cannot be limited and can be applied for a maximum of 15 days. If the Regulation does not contain a period of validity, it shall terminate on its own after seven days. The Regulation should also include human rights which may be restricted by measures and a thorough analysis of the constitutional admissibility of these restrictions. As it is said, the law is stepping up a set of measures depending on the state of the epidemic. The law shall then, after paragraphs, further specify how, in what way and by which measures the situation shall then be scaled up. As it is said, in the first place with some hygiene measures, the second step says that a government, if first-degree measures are not sufficient, may restrict the arrival from countries where there is a possibility of infection with communicable diseases, may prohibit the arrival from countries from the previous point of view of foreigners, may restrict the movement to a particular area or prohibit access to a particular location, may prohibit the gathering of persons in cinemas, theatres, museums and other institutions, may prohibit the movement of goods, the provision of services or work processes or may restrict certain means of implementation or of teaching. So it's only second-degree. Those measures shall also apply for up to 15 days if the Regulation does not contain the length of validity, they shall expire on the seventh day. If I make another move with this expert group. It is very precise in Article 39a who forms this section. It is run by an epidemiologist, and members are immunologists, sociologists, psychologists, lawyers, and experts who control the disease, i.e. the disease that causes the epidemic or its complications. The expert group shall adopt an expert evaluation. The law sets out the precise content to be included in this expert assessment and also the indicators on which the measures are then taken. As we are told, it is very important that this expert assessment is also published publicly in the Official Journal. Then this law, as requested by the Constitutional Court, adds control. This supervision is contained in Article 39b when it comes to parliamentary supervision. Therefore, at the same time as the Minister proposes a regulation, the State Assembly is also familiar with the proposal itself. At that stage, just get to know each other. After the adoption by the Government of this Regulation, the working body of the National Assembly, i.e. the Health Committee, must also be informed within five days. In particular, if the Government wants to extend any of the measures for 30 or 60 days, it must give its consent to such an extension to the working body, i.e. the National Assembly Health Committee, in this case by a simple majority. If the extension is more than 90 days, a two-thirds majority of the competent working body is required. I must say that this is exactly what we have proposed when we consider the government proposal. That is exactly the kind of amendment we have tabled for the health committee to carry out in essence. At that time, we actually thought this solution was logical, and even at this point, we have no problem with this solution, of course, under some condition. This is, however, a condition that relations are appropriate in parliamentary working bodies. Of course not at this point. At the moment, in the working bodies of the parliamentary group, they are not represented in the ratio they should be in. And in such a case, of course, this may be problematic. However, we all hope that after April 24th this will no longer be the case, and this house will also begin to function with a little healthy farm. As it has already been said, we have tabled the same amendments to this government proposal, i.e. on control with the parliamentary working body, and then some colleagues supported this amendment, including the SAB, LMŠ, and Desus, as well, which was encouraging. But when we talk about the need to react quickly in the epidemic, I think that the way that this law provides makes it possible in full. However, it may also be possible to agree further to reach a consensus, that this may be necessary to be a predator. In fact, I don't see a barrier here either, and I can't agree with the SDS and the Prime Minister, who says it's impossible. I might just remember that Slovenia has already met with such a situation in the past, and the Prime Minister should remember this in my opinion. During the period of independence, i.e. during the war for independence and independence of Slovenia, the Slovenian Parliament met five times in 16 days in total, not only the working bodies. It's hard to imagine for myself a time that would require faster action than it was war. So the thesis that the Prime Minister objected to this novel, one of them, and all the crowding and lies have absolutely no basis, and unfortunately this shows more in my opinion his complete distrust of all of us who are not directly subordinated to it. So much for that. Maybe one more response if I find him now, or I'll be back to get these papers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are now switching to the list of debaters. The first is Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Get ready, ma'am. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Vice President. Before us is the law, this will have to be repeated repeatedly, because of inefficiency, I would be ashamed if I were in their place, and if I were to disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court which imposed on this legislative body, which is bizarre in its own way, it should be prepared by the government to deal in particular with those issues which are marked as unconstitutional. The legal network for the protection of democracy played a key role in this case. The key role is particularly because it has responded to this government's unreasonable actions, when, in fact, despite the Constitutional Court's decision on what must have happened, it has actually become completely passive. But to make it easier for us to understand, for some will likely come forward and explain how this government has worked even harder. We have Mr Hojs, Minister of the Interior, who is vehemently explaining in the public media that this government wanted to pass the law on communicable diseases, but the National Assembly has rejected it if it was not good, that it was bad and I do not know what else. In fact, I must say that there was little media involved in misinterpreting what was going on in the National Assembly when the Government proposed its law on communicable diseases and, by the way, this law was totally useless. He has introduced even worse things than the novels he is proposing today. In fact, only illegal decrees were translated into law, and in this way all the work and all the work that the government had done would be legalized. Today in the presentation we heard a colleague Ivo Dimic explaining how Nova Slovenija is for this law to be passed, but she even mentioned the procedure as to how this would happen. If you listened to her very carefully, she said that if this law were to be dealt with, we would have to look at the way that all the parliamentary groups would first talk a little bit, coordinate, and then somehow come up with a common proposal, and perhaps eventually consider this law on communicable diseases. Now, from the experience we have, and we all know it well, it's practically impossible because everyone would push and pull on their own side and never come to a conclusion. And they would get an apology, if, yes, we did, but we couldn't reconcile, so the law didn't see the green light. This law was rejected by a majority of votes, almost by acclamation of the entire national assembly. 15. 7. When we voted, the quorum of the National Assembly was 88 Members present, 78 of whom voted against. What does that mean? This means that virtually the entire coalition, including the opposition and the contractual partners of this coalition, voted against this law. The only one MP was in favour. Just one, mate Polnar. Why am I saying this? Because, in fact, this coalition broke its own law on infectious diseases, which it proposed to the National Assembly for consideration, because it knew that it would experience defeat if it pressed the key for. In other ways, in theory and in practice, she later found that in fact it makes no sense to adopt a new law at all, since we already have an existing law that is much more fitting and which is much more written to them on the skin. Why them on their skin? Because they can continue to do illegal things. You know the thesis that when a decision is taken, regardless of the constitutional dispute and that it is likely that the Constitutional Court will later find that it is illegal, it is valid and legal for as long as the Constitutional Court finds it. Since our procedures are longer than usual, this allows this government to operate for several months in a state of illegality, and this is the absurdity of all the absurdities that this coalition and this government, on behalf of legality, and the Prime Minister at the helm, of course, can always afford. Today we have heard quite some interesting claims, from the fact that the amendment to the law that is proposed and we have it on the table today does not, in fact, have any serious international comparison. Dear coalition! If we took a close look at our proposal for a law that we have considered in our case. 7th Last year, he had no serious international comparison, but he had a bunch of pamphlets and some explanations about how it was absolutely necessary and I don't know what else. In this law, which is before us today, we have very clearly described comparisons between the three countries: Belgium, Denmark and Austria. We have no cases, I don't know, Serbia or I don't know what you want to hear, some countries that aren't exactly known for protecting human rights. European countries which are members of the European Union. Let us see what these countries have made very clear in their legislation. Belgium, for example, refers to the fact that the pandemic law - they have it instead of the law on communicable diseases - provides that the government may immediately, after declaring the state of emergency by a decree discussed by the Council of Ministers, take the necessary administrative police measures to prevent or limit the consequences of the emergency epidemiological situation on public health. Governors and cities can also take more restrictive measures if local circumstances so require. The law thus gives local authorities greater flexibility to take action in relation to the specific situation in a particular place. But it clearly gives the intention that all of this must be determined by law and where are the limits to which they can reach. Denmark also has a law to combat the spread of covid virus, but they call it the Epidemics Act, which stipulates that any measure must be necessary and as short as possible and proportionate as possible with a view to the measure. The least restrictive and non-invasive measure still sufficient to achieve its purpose should be applied. However, the measures shall be implemented as soon as they are no longer necessary. This is decided by the Epidemiological Commission - once again for those infidel Tomaze, the Epidemiological Commission, not the Infectological Commission, to understand what we are talking about, because we have alpha infectologists and omega in general - and the Epidemiological Commission makes recommendations on what is meaningful and what is not. In addition, they have special parliamentary supervision, for which Janez Janša does not even want to hear, because we are too slow, which very clearly affects and clearly determines whether it is actually carried out in accordance with the law and the Constitution, and also what the Minister adopts under the law, the competent rule by means of measures which he has to submit to this parliamentary supervision if he wants to be adopted by these committees. Austria has the so-called Main Committee of the Lower House of the Austrian Parliament, which has the power to give its consent to the decisions of the Government. Without this agreement, the government cannot take action at all. My dears, you are constantly afraid of only one thing: control and that someone would restrict you in your arbitrary decision about what is right and what is wrong. More than that, when your infectors suggest something, you don't like it yet, and then you change your mind. As the Prime Minister says: "We are in power and we will make political decisions and no one will give us anything where we will just have to make that decision." This is a synonym for this Prime Minister and for him all subordinates who blindly follow what he says. Yesterday's answer to my colleague Janja Slug's question, I must say that I listened very carefully to him. Because I couldn't believe what he was saying, I had him print it again and I read it again and again, and I went from word to word and to his stupidity, and especially to what is very beautiful The Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy, in response the next day, they also answered, they call it beautiful Slovenian and they are very polite not to hold up to what the Prime Minister said. Well, I'm going to say, this Prime Minister constantly invents himself as a notorious liar of a single purpose, and that very kindly repeats a lie, suggests a few things, and we'll all believe it. Even those who listen to him and follow him, for that is actually his goal, for he knows that most people here no longer believe him. Two statements he made yesterday. In response, the President of the Government mentions to the Government that Slovenia has resolved the situation by decrees at the time of the epidemic and that these decrees did not have a legal and constitutional basis. The legal network replied: “It does not hold that the legal profession of the Government should at any time report that the epidemic is managed by decrees. It is only and exclusively obvious to the Government and the legislator that the decisions are based on an unconstitutional and legal basis.” Well, the Prime Minister calls it different. He says: “First of all, this completely unfounded observation that Slovenia has resolved the situation at the time of the epidemic by decrees and that these decrees did not have a legal and constitutional basis. We have made a comparison, and no other Member State of the European Union has accepted 10 anti-Korona packages during the conflict or the creation of legal bases to deal with the epidemic or to supplement this legal basis." Elegantly in fact, he escapes the question raised and the statement addressed to him and becomes a defender of how with the ten antikoronic packages he actually took action and solved the epidemic. No, it's not true, my dear Prime Minister! With ten anti-korona packages in one third, you pushed in things that had nothing to do with the epidemic and you fixed and solved something that, with basic or ordinary laws, not omnibuses, ordinary laws that would come here, would not get the majority needed, because it would be more obvious that you are changing and adapting legislation to your own needs. The second third of the decisions were monetary or electoral mints where you distributed money, and not all of them were unjustifiable, but often unjustifiable, to users who were not even entitled to these aids. And thirdly, you were saving the economy. How did you save the economy? By maintaining the entire hotel industry in the Slovenian space with tourist vouchers, you have in fact strengthened so that something that you are selling to Hungary will not fail. In fact, we maintained the property that will be in Hungarian hands today with vouchers, Slovenian taxpayers' money. Well, it's a cure for the epidemic your way. That's how you solved the epidemic and the measures. Then the Prime Minister goes on to say or apologize, not say the Prime Minister, but the SDS representative – who will determine the disproportionateity? Yes, my dears, who finds disproportionate today? The disproportionateity is determined by those who deal with it daily — legal experts. That's why in the National Assembly, we have the legal and legal service that you whistle, fuck, and you care a little when you have to refer to it. Unfortunately, in the end, the Constitutional Court also points out this. Finally, the government has its legal service, which, unfortunately, has a hand to the heart, most often in a situation where its hand is bent and needs to be really quiet. At the very least, they do so that, in fact, we never see it in the National Assembly. However, we hear policies from the Interior Minister and so on how to act quickly, effectively, regardless of human rights, interference with freedoms, interference with the constitutionally guaranteed inviolability of space, from housing and so on. And that's been itchy and bothering you for almost two years. You would like to have this fascist attitude towards some things where you could simply enter and do and investigate and review and control whatever you want without any rights. More. You do not even care about the disproportionateity of the punishments you have imposed in the UNB, which you have proposed, to the absurdities that you have practically led to the point that today virtually everyone can at any time and wherever anyone is legitimized and be subjected to any punishment, if any, should be brought to the people and taught that there is order and discipline. I will not forget Mr Hojs' hearing when he said, "I love order and discipline, and I will do everything I can to make this happen." He said that at the hearing, and he's doing it with pleasure today. More than that, when it comes to order and discipline, commend the police when they feel that the police have not responded well, they beautify them and say they do not have what they never had. The following statement made by the Prime Minister concerning the Infectious Diseases Act is also made by the President of the Government in his reply: “After a government comparison, no other EU Member State, at the time of the creation of the legal basis for the fight against the epidemic, has taken ten anti-Korona measures taken by this State Assembly at that time, and it is with each of these laws that this legal basis has been upgraded.” But here too, the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy has made it clear that it does not claim that anti-Korona packages upgraded the legal basis for interference with human rights at the time of the epidemic. The anti-Korona measures did not affect Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, so they did not deal with the procedures, conditions and professional grounds necessary to ease constitutional rights, the right to cross the state border, freedom of movement, free economic initiative and the right to work. And that's how they describe it. Then also to the last claim under Article 39 of the Law on Infectious Diseases, prepared by the Legal Network, the Prime Minister's reply that no epidemic could be tackled on its basis. We are already used to the 30-year history that only one principle applies to the President of this government: whether it will be as I said, and immediately, or nothing can be done in this country. He's foreign to talking, coordinating, listening to a professional if it's not the right profession to change it. And that's the key problem with this rule. And since everyone is bound in one way or another to a status symbol that they hold in this government, and then everyone in this country's sub-systems, no one dares to say anything to him and they're afraid of him. At first, we had at least a few other infectologists who were hoping for something else, and now they don't hope for you anymore. They just keep quiet and hope and wait for this 24 to happen. 4. Happened as soon as possible and that we will all forget about this two-year period of harassment of the Slovenian population in this way. What would be urgently needed in this law to be made more clear and meaningfully appropriate? Of course, we also have our views and comments. One of the comments is that it will be essential to set out more clearly with regard to parliamentary supervision, given that, for example, agreement on a government regulation for measures that would last more than 30 days and less than 60 days would be given by an ordinary majority throughout the national assembly, it is said of all Members. That would be a serious thought. However, measures lasting more than 60 days and less than 90 days should be decided by the National Assembly by an absolute majority. Why? For one simple reason, it is such a length of interference with the protection of human rights or freedoms that it is not possible for the executive branch to decide on this issue at all times. I agree with some who say that the parliamentary system and the division of power must work in some proportion and also on the principle that one branch of power always controls the other and vice versa. But in the last two years, we have not only obtained evidence, empirical evidence in numbers, how power, when it is desired, can abuse this proportionality. She abuses her for fear and is, in fact, shivering because she actually notes that she will sometimes not be able to make certain decisions. And then you just run him over. It is therefore up to the National Assembly to decide. That it is possible for the National Assembly to decide very quickly, my colleague, the bill-maker, said how we decided in 1991. And we don't have to go to 1991, we can only go a few years ago and we'll figure out, remember how the NLB bank changed at one night's meeting, the founding act changed its name, and we all know why it started at that time. This was done in order to protect the assets of the New Ljubljana Bank, because otherwise they would virtually seize the assets of the former Member States. However, we had a problem with this decision, which we found many years later that one thing simply did not achieve a goal. Arbitration. Remember the arbitration when the National Assembly literally made certain decisions during the night or made and reviewed certain decisions. The Prime Minister was then a Member, he sat with us and knows exactly how quickly the National Assembly can decide. I was there myself, and that is why it is an empty excuse to become ineffective and that this national assembly cannot work. Remember the migrant crisis, the defence law, remember how we adopted then also the activation of an article that allows the military to join, in general and simplified terms, the police to help her with the amount of migrants that have gone through our country. All of this happened in a few days. And don't say that the National Assembly doesn't have the opportunity to practically call a meeting overnight. I have said no more than once that the Rules of Procedure are written in such a way that, if you wish, you can sometimes make decisions as quickly as you would if you had reduced or urgent procedures. It's all a matter of deciding whether or not it's in this interest. Remember when the President of the Government said very loudly at the beginning of the epidemic that there would be a need to amend the voting rules when he literally intervened in the work of the National Assembly and recommended that the vote should in fact change to a remote vote on the epidemic, because otherwise it could happen that the National Assembly would become incompetent because it would simply not be able to decide certain decisions. We have also done this, and this is only half-baked, because you can now vote in certain cases, but not in certain cases. And we are worse than the European Parliament, which in any case can, whether it has an epidemic or not, always decide from home with a technique in the 21st century. About speed and efficiency. I'm sorry, you're making it clear that the National Assembly is not able to make a quick decision. Well, look what you're doing. This government first thinks for two days about what it would do, then throws a bone, so that we all bite, debate, and see what happens. Then they have one session on the Hill and they gather 40 people in a pile or more and they discuss and debate. Then, from Friday to Saturday, it takes them three more days to figure out how to get it to paper. The government does not decide on these matters until next week on Thursday. Don't talk to me about speed, come on! The National Assembly would have done it sooner if you knew what you wanted and what you were suggesting. However, the National Assembly will certainly not decide in one day on the things that you want, and this is that the President of the Government and the Government has unlimited and absolute power in this country and that he can decide what he wants and when and when he wishes and changes measures all the time and daily. In the National Assembly, I hope to say out loud that no Member knows what is really true and what is not applicable to the measures that this Government has taken. I hope to say out loud that I don't know these changes anymore because I can't follow them anymore because there are so many. And you expect Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens to know that. They don't know. Each time they watch the phone on the Internet or even understand what is going on in this country and what is not. Because we have impossibility because we actually have the inefficiency of this government, which is actually digging in its own confusion by the measures itself. Then we can say that it will also be necessary to consider when a competent working body decides and when a parliamentary majority. This, of course, will also need to be considered further. In addition, it will be necessary to say and make a very clear decision on the composition of the expert commission. The expert commission is today defining, following this proposal, the novel, who is leading this expert committee, that it is an epidemiologist. We are thinking, this is a matter of debate, that there must be at least two epidemiologists, because also epidemiologists can think differently between themselves, and more importantly, at least one of these two must be from the NIJ. Why? As this government has repeatedly proved in its practice that the law that the NEJS has, that it is the one who is the main proponent of certain measures, simply bypasses it, is not. That's not who I am. We have a leader who specialises in the health of this Slovenian society, and that is all. More than once, no matter what we think of him, we see a fundamentally different way of thinking than that government or the Prime Minister. And when he disagrees with him, he runs to his infectologists to cover his back for his decisions. Then we would also introduce a correction that says that the government by regulation can also lay down offences and sanctions for individuals. It would make sense that the law contains at least a range of penalties and, most importantly, at least a reference to the general criminal provisions of the law which this amendment does not open in this case. Why is that important? It happens quite often that we set offenses for certain things, and then we go to look at the proportionality between the other offences. These ranges are so different and inappropriate, so it would also make sense to think about this. However, another key point is that, at the point where we are talking about the possibility of restricting people's access to a specific location, it should be explicitly stated that these measures can be implemented, when it comes to public spaces, for public areas, for public good. In short, we cannot interfere with the rights of closed spaces that are untouchable under the Constitution. This government has such whims over it that I would like to go into the bedrooms of all people. That's amazing. We'd like to have control of everything. If it were possible, we would also install a surveillance camera in each apartment to see what these people are doing in this apartment, if there is no anti - government or anti - Janszewski activity in this apartment. See, that's not how it works, especially with the law on infectious diseases. In the end, let me finish with the point. As of today and yesterday, we have received e-mails from citizens and citizens from mass Members and Members of Parliament that we should not go beyond this law, because compulsory vaccination and so on is not what we have the right to decide. Look, this has been a lot of talk lately. If I was still at peace six months ago and I have heard from the Minister of Health and a number of government experts that compulsory vaccination will not occur, I see that they are actually playing with this idea and thinking now, especially since Germany has introduced compulsory vaccination for 50 plus and Austria, where, virtually yesterday or before, compulsory vaccination has entered into force for all citizens. I'm sorry. I'll say it out loud. We'll never support mandatory vaccination. And this novelty of the law doesn't even talk about compulsory vaccination. This must also be said out loud for the Slovenian public. We don't even talk about compulsory vaccination. Vaccination must become and remain the free choice of each individual. And what I am repeating is the task of the government, the ministry, and the NIJ is -- and this task, by the way, has left at the beginning of the epidemic and has practically one year not been carried out, as it should -- to answer every question and every so-called laity statement made by individuals. Also all the Internet messages that go around. From the fact that we have chips, to the fact that it's deliberately triggered, I don't know what else to do, the government should answer all these questions in a straight line every day. This is the only way we can have some normal communication and also confidence that everyone can always, if they want, respond to individual claims that may not be scientific, not real and so on. No, the opposite! In the first year, this government persecuted anyone who said otherwise. It's like we don't live in a free country of different thinking people. On the one hand, we want to spread the spirit and be different and respect each other, and on the other hand, we want to have unification, unity and uniform thinking constantly at one and the same point. So that's why we'll never support such a proposal if we ever show up. We hope, however, that this amendment of the law will bring us to the point that it is said that we will finally be satisfied with the constitutional decisions that we should take and amend as the legislative branch of power long ago. But the government should be responsible for this. Since the Government has not done so in more than half a year, has stalled and has even deliberately forgotten because it was in the interest of the existing law on communicable diseases, it is therefore before us essentially the proposal of the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy for one reason, once and for all, to solve this problem and to settle issues within the law on communicable diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. I'm actually going to be a little shorter, and I'm going to give my thoughts a little bit more legal, a little bit more human. I will not vote in favour of this proposal alone, and I will abstain from the bill because I think it would be unwise for the legislative procedure to end immediately after the general discussion, because it is the matter of the matter of which the Constitutional Court ordered us to decide and adopt the relevant legislation. It is right that the marriage ground is accepted that the law on communicable diseases in this context is also specified in more detail and more acutely by preventing any abuse and absurdity that we have witnessed in the last two years. What is my key reason why I don't think this law is appropriate in this form to confirm today, why can't I confirm it? Primarily because I think every marriage needs some legitimacy and acceptance among people. A colleague has already mentioned how many emails we have received, but in fact, it is not as important as e-mails as it is this harassment, the fear of people who have already been triggered by the name of the Law on Infectious Diseases. We have brought the situation to such extremes and absurdities that people are simply afraid, the fear that the law will impose compulsory vaccination, the fear that the law will provide even more arbitrarily for certain measures, the fear of excessive interference with individual freedom. It would therefore seem crucial to me, once again, that such legal solutions are being prepared, and once again, to commend civil society, of course, that it has invested all its energy, that it has prepared this legal material, which is certainly difficult, but it would be better for such matter to be found in a broader public hearing. Even when we have considered the government proposal for a law on communicable diseases, our parliamentary group has highlighted as crucial the fact that such legislation is not adopted quickly. Let me stress that this law has also been tabled after a reduced procedure, and at the end of the College of the President of the National Assembly, he voted on a regular procedure. I have had great not only doubts here, but I did not think it was right, because the most important thing in these situations would be to adopt such legislation on a regular basis, as is now the case. But a broader debate would be needed in advance, and key responses should be given to the public concerned, and the general public should be invited to prepare this law. I am a lawyer myself, of course I support that the law has been drawn up by lawyers, but this law must also have the support of a medical profession, perhaps sociologists. Look, we've witnessed remarkable, even social, changes in recent years. And in this case all these aspects really need to be taken into account before you make such a law. And the second thing is, crucially, the primary thing to do is to at least present public opinions, unless we somehow set up a broader public debate in which people would be given the opportunity to really make their proposals. We have seen that the Ministry is preparing a regulation where this compulsory vaccination against cots should also be established and this has aroused great fear in people. Here I will also stress that the Social Democrats are absolutely against compulsory vaccination, absolutely for voluntary vaccination. When it comes to interfering with the individual’s personal freedom, this must be respected, with me being vaccinated alone so that there is no doubt. So what's this all about? It is that the last two years, which have been extremely difficult for all of us, have brought about certain changes in society. Regrettably, the government, which wanted confidence, instead of interpreting this trust as a two-way road, understood it only as a one-way and very concentrated power that it had in its hands, in a number of respects, the National Assembly left the decision-making process behind. At one point, it already seemed that there was no more division into three branches of power, but only into two branches of government, which is absolutely wrong and contrary to the principle of democracy. During these years, the Constitutional Court has issued several constitutional decisions to assess the decisions and decisions of the Government and has ruled that, in a number of respects, they were contrary to the Constitution mainly because there was no clear legal basis for restricting human rights and freedoms, which is, of course, constitutionally guaranteed. Human rights and freedoms may be restricted only by law if this is strictly necessary if a just objective is pursued and measures are proportionate. A smaller measure is always preferable to stricter if it can achieve the same or similar effects. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and the Constitutional Court has decided that in fact the most controversial in this context is the Law on Infectious Diseases, a very old law that has never been amended in the meantime, because the life needs did not dictate it. Then we faced the virus, and there were new living conditions. It was found that an overly loose legal basis was to be limited. While the government had proposed a law at the time, which, as I have already pointed out, had been proposed in a reduced procedure, it had not been given a broader debate. In fact, it was some legalization of what these two years had begun, so to speak, to lay just a legal basis for what had actually been done all along. If anything, I would now expect a slightly more optimistic bill from civil society. But optimistic is not the best word, but broader. So what's this all about? Certainly not appropriate, at least in my view it is not appropriate for the Health Committee to take note of the government regulation it is intended to adopt when necessary to limit the spread of communicable diseases. First of all, in fact, only one submarital act is renamed another. Second, why an introduction? Why are the powers of the National Assembly restricted again at this point in time? Why an introduction to the regulation? Wouldn't it be more normal to have a debate and a decision about it? The National Assembly is not an institution that cannot meet within a short period of time. It just doesn't hold. Just an emergency has shown that we can meet within a very short period of time. If you wish otherwise, many of these decisions have been taken at the government's written meetings. We can meet even faster than the government, if that's the case. I don't know why we would be afraid to have a debate in the plenary room instead of on some health committee which, after all, doesn't have these powers in its own right to decide and take some responsibility. Here again we place our responsibility on a very small number of Members and Members. Then it's only fair to divide it into all of us. The time frame is simply not enough for me to fail to do so. In this context, I think that this bill should be amended because it simply does not correspond to the actual situation. In fact, what we keep reminding ourselves of, that is, the derogation of the National Assembly, would in fact be confirmed by such a proposal. It should also be pointed out that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is not competent at all to examine and adopt regulations or parts of regulations, since this is a direct enforceable competence, namely that of the executive branch, not the National Assembly. Therefore, at least this paragraph should be recast in such a way as to allow the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a decision on consent to the Regulation. In any case, it would be more appropriate. I also think it would be very important for this bill to come before the competent committee, because I think that the opinion of our legislative and legal service on this law would also be necessary. Once again, of course, I have no doubt that I respect the expertise that has drawn up this bill, but this profession is not infallible, it is a knowledge that is essentially based on argumentation and counter-arguments and several lawyers, there are several opinions, which is not bad, but we all have a nomination, we all agree on the constitution, human rights and freedoms, and we know what the objectives of this law must be in order to comply with the constitutional decision. That this was not appropriate to be regulated by the Regulation, he also pointed out in his comments, the very detailed, very professional comments, that there was a large part of the profession that stressed that human rights and freedoms could be restricted only in the event of declared emergency situations. I'm on my own. You actually agree to this. I have also warned several times in my own debates that in a state where neither the epidemic has been declared nor the emergency situation has been declared, it is simply not possible to interfere with human rights and freedoms, and from week to week to decide and limit the daily lives and freedoms of people. That's not appropriate. I think that this comment, which the colleague has made, is very well-founded and should at least be examined and included in the amendments. Once again, I think that a broader debate on the bill would be necessary in order to gain legitimacy among people, so much hasty legislation. Of course, the Constitutional Court has given us a deadline, but this deadline is now overdue, and these two months are long overdue. In such circumstances, in such heated circumstances it is better to hold a debate that will somehow properly present this law to people and give them the opportunity to express themselves and give their views, and in this way they may gain some legitimacy among people. I hope that the Committee will vote to make at least a presentation of public opinions and that some well-intentioned comments may be adopted, which are important if this law is to actually follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! It is clear to me that the cooperation of the Government or government representatives, the Ministry of Health at today's meeting or in the examination of this item is not formally envisaged or prescribed. However, I am saddened that there is no Minister of Health among us, currently obviously the most popular policy in the country, because we are dealing with an extremely important topic, which we have felt on our own, virtually all citizens in the last two years. And if anything, it would be expected from the responsible Minister of Health to participate in such a debate where Members are considering the law on communicable diseases, which, as it is said, is currently in the context of this epidemic or endemic disease, whatever its name, is also essential to how we will deal in the future with a similar case or with similar problems. But anyway, I think it casts a bad light on some kind of irresponsibility or the carelessness of government policy. Even if we look at the benches of the coalition Members, there is little interest in participating in this debate, which makes me extremely sad. The first consideration or general consideration of the law is, however, intended to exchange as widely as possible opinions on a social matter that we want to settle with the law. But okay, as we say, we're going to have so much more to say to the opposition Members. I was extremely disappointed or, on the other hand, not again, the reply of the Prime Minister on Monday to the Member's question, Comrade Slug, when, for the bill we have today on the table, he said that it was a law to endanger people's health in Slovenia. These are the harsh words with which the Prime Minister has again cheated in his style and was, how can I put it, ironic. In addition to relativising the fact that many government decisions were known to be unconstitutional, he stressed, on the other hand, that the Law on Infectious Diseases, which is currently in force, had been adopted decades ago and so on. The Prime Minister's response is a reflection of what we can see today when there is no government representative on such an important subject. But here I would stress an extremely important fact, which is that the fact that this proposal, which we are considering today, is not a copy or a copy of those government decrees that have actually been known to be unconstitutional, but actually offers some solutions that are, for the first time, designed to protect human health, and secondly, what is extremely important to prescribe measures or legal restrictions that are proportionate, which also respect other human rights, not only the human right to health. I believe that today's bill offers such a solution. Of course, we will still be able to discuss some of the envisaged content of the articles during the parliamentary procedure. But the fundamental difference between today's proposal and the one advocated by the Prime Minister himself, which his coalition later collapsed in this national assembly, is that it does follow the Constitutional Court's decision and that it is not a copy of the government's rulings, which were found to be unconstitutional. We have heard a few observations about the procedure for the adoption or consideration of the proposed law. I must say here that I do not agree with a colleague from NSI who said in the position of her parliamentary group that they would like all the parliamentary groups to table this law in order to talk about it first and then to put themselves into the procedure once a consensus has been reached. I must remind you here that the Slovenian public will also know, we have had a consultation with the President of the National Assembly on this topic on this bill. We spoke to all Members or all the Members of this Assembly. And it is not true that there was no dialogue before the law was introduced into the procedure. It is true, however, that when a law is introduced in a way such as this, it is with the first-signed President of the National Assembly, who is the first one to represent any authority, not least the institution in which we work, this political connotation is significantly smaller than if the law were proposed in any other way. That way, I don't see any cause for concern or resentment here, on the contrary. I see earlier added value that under the law that is so important at this time, the President of the National Assembly is signed and this is a different political message. All the time I've been in the epidemic, and I've been reminding this government that, in order to ensure the human right to health, we must not forget all the other human rights that are just as important and are, in the hierarchy of human rights, totally equivalent to the right to health. Unfortunately at the time of this government, at the time of the ruling of this coalition, it was all too much that other human rights were being beaten at the expense of or due to dealing with the covida-19 epidemic. However, we are in a democratic country where democratic demands apply, standards and our constitution define all or more of human rights, and that fundamental rule or principle is a principle of proportionality. During the bad two years of dealing with this epidemic, we were able to hear from several legal experts, not least from several health professionals, that all the measures taken by the Government were not proportionate, neither were effective, nor were they necessary. I am talking about the evil bans, restrictions on movement between municipalities, where epidemiologists have said in one voice that this measure does not bring any added value, because Slovenia is such a small country where practically from Maribor to Ljubljana every day a huge number of people are driving to work. Or, not least, a curfew when we know that many epidemiologists have been calling for time for a measure to be unnecessary and ineffective and yet to be removed. I want to say that this law that we are considering today will not allow such nonsense. One thing we have been able to hear in our views and debate today is whether this concern or scepticism is still in this law as well as in the established by law, whereby every single government can, by regulation or by decree, somehow restrict human rights. In view of the fact that it is enshrined in this law, I would like to highlight one significant change from the decisions or regulations adopted during this Government and from those regulations or decisions adopted under this new UNB. This is because the proposal of the law that we now have on the table, more specifically, very roundedly defines what is allowed to interfere with individual human rights. This means that legal certainty is better, significantly greater, legal predictability for our citizens for all of us is significantly greater, because the law itself defines the content of interference with human rights, the conditions in which it can intervene in human rights, and the way in which it can intervene in individual human rights. Under-laws, which are also defined by this law, will only be implementing acts if I express myself at home. It is said that there will be no excessive interference in human rights with government regulations, since the government regulation or decree will have to be in accordance with the law of this new UNB. And as for the individual exercise of human rights, which is defined by the Constitution as a basic act in the country, a law is necessary to ensure that this human right is then realized, exercised in real life, in the event of an epidemic, in the case of human rights interventions, in the case of restrictive measures, is necessary in order to implement this legal provision of the regulation or government decisions. I don't see too much danger here. Of course, under this government, we have seen that anything is possible and that many things can also be misused inadvertently. I wanted to stress, and with another example, I can illustrate what I want to say. However, as is the case in the Constitution, certain inviolability of housing can then be entered into and, in essence, infringed by the Criminal Procedure Act under certain conditions which are predetermined and in breach of this constitutional provision on the inviolability of housing. And with the rights that this new U.N.B. is regulating, it's similar. In terms of committee decision-making, it's called the work force or the National Assembly. My personal opinion, as well as here in the LMŠ, is more inclined, however, to decide on the fundamental essential issues that this law redefines, the National Assembly and not the labour force. There are several reasons for this. He's been talking about some of his friends, Jani. I'd like to point out one more. Under this government coalition, unfortunately, in the mandate of this government, we could also see in our house that there are still working bodies, the right committees and commissions, in the National Assembly in a very disassociative way. The relationship between the coalition and the opposition is not reflected in these working bodies, so there are some decisions - the Justice Committee is one of them, to the fact that in fact the will represented by the National Assembly as a whole is not reflected in the working body. Since we cannot know whether this will still happen or not in the future, it is a more secure option that important decisions are decided by the National Assembly in plenary session, where all Members have the right to vote, or that all Members of Parliament may participate in full. So here is my thought, and I think that there should be no further problem or problem of re-thinking it and perhaps finding a solution that will be more just, which will be safer than I have already said, and not least, which will reflect the right will of the people, because we are finally sitting in the National Assembly to represent people's will, and this can only be represented effectively and fairly in a way that relations are really taken into account as they are. I agree with the predecessors when they have warned that the law is so important that, however, there must be a broader debate on the subject, the opinion of experts, not least in the second phase, is also stated in the second step of the legislative process of the legislative and legal service. I am even in favour of, I have no problem with the fact that there is still a public presentation of opinions, but it is necessary that today or Friday, when we vote, this law survives and that we let it go on to a second reading. That way, we will not actually seal the text of this law today. On the contrary. If the marriage goes through today, we will only really be able to obtain additional expert opinions from all the experts in all the fields, not only the epidemiological profession, but also the legal professions, so here I see the first plus than any minus. It is a fact, however, that I must point out that we have advocated in the LMŠ from the very beginning that a law as important as the law on communicable diseases is advocated by a wider public debate and respects the opinion of people or civil society. This is also one of the major differences of this law, which is now on the table, from the law prepared by the government. There was also a Minister of Health in our parliamentary group a while ago, where he presented a government proposal for a law on communicable diseases to implement a constitutional decision. But, look!, that government proposal already contained a priori ban on the referendum initiative, it is said that the priori government has already rejected any debate, debate or opinion of civil society on the solutions they have proposed. This is absolutely unacceptable to us. As important a law as the law on communicable diseases, people should have the right to make decisions if they choose to do so if a referendum initiative is to be given, people should have the right to speak about it. And finally what Jani has said in the end, of course this law that we have today on the table does not provide mandatory vaccination for covid-19, by no means, here is concern over. All I can say is that I personally and also LMŠ do not advocate compulsory vaccination for covid-19, that we have been stressing out loud for some time now and it has turned out that our position is correct. We have now heard in the past that even NIJ opposes compulsory vaccination, including EMA and so on. Here people would be reassured, the law, as envisaged before us today, does not provide for compulsory vaccination, while the existing law would even allow mandatory vaccination after some skillful application of the law. So we are here on the safe side, so I believe that the law in this first reading should be supported, that a broader dialogue should be established and that we can find a solution to how to implement the constitutional decision successfully. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today, we have heard several times that we are talking about an extremely important law on infectious diseases. Of course, it is necessary to discuss this law as widely as possible and to find as broad a social consensus as possible. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the existing law on communicable diseases, which was adopted a long time ago, is unconstitutional in Article 39 and that this unconstitutionality must be abolished. Unfortunately, this government has not been able to prepare it. Although we have been considering the law in July, which is due to follow their judgement by the Constitutional Court, the coalition has found that, after all the pressure from the public, this law is not only suitable for further consideration and has also rejected such a law in its entirety to the plenary. The civil society which drafted this law in cooperation with lawyers is expected to resolve this unconstitutionality. Of course, they are grateful that they have taken one step further that this government has not been able to do. This existing law makes it possible for this government to cause unrest among people, control over people, conflict between people, which is very bad. Just as we have been separated in recent times, it is truly unusual and unacceptable, and it is time for these things to be settled as soon as possible. I must say for myself that I support some things in this bill. Further steps will be needed to allow this law to see the light of the world, because I do not support all matters in this law. However, it is crucial that I begin to believe that it no longer works authoritarianly, voluntarily with decisions, unconstitutionally, unlawfully, as it has done now during the epidemic and even in certain matters today. In restricting the fundamental human rights that we have in the Constitution, it is necessary to be extremely, extremely careful, because the Constitution clearly states that Slovenia is a state of law, that we operate on the basis of laws and constitution and that in Slovenia the authority of the people. This means that people have elected their representatives to this National Assembly. There are 90 representatives of the people in this National Assembly. Today, at least all 90 of us should stop by and give our opinion on this law. The indisputable fact is that our constitution, which has been written a while ago, stipulates that the temporary abolition and limitation of rights is possible exceptionally in a state of emergency and war, and so that the measures do not create any inequalities. Unfortunately, at the time of the epidemic in the past year, we were given the benefit of interfering with fundamental human rights. The right to movement has been restricted, and the right to gather people has been restricted. There was a curfew. The worst was restricting the right to gather people, which is a fundamental constitutional right. There was a restriction on the screening program, all in order to limit the spread of the virus. Yeah, some things were in place at the time of the epidemic. We can't argue with that, because the hospitals are filling up. Yet, it must be said that such harsh attacks on fundamental human rights are inadmissible or unconstitutional. Today's bill is supposed to eliminate this unconstitutionality, which has lasted for two years. Therefore, once again, thank the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy for preparing this. It should be pointed out that in this law I continue to pursue the derogation of the entire national assembly, i.e. all 90 Members, because the law itself provides that only the mother labour body will decide on individual regulations, which is unacceptable to me, because the parent labour bodies at least in this reference to the national assembly do not reflect the representation of Members and Members in the national assembly. Many of the laws we have adopted over the last two years would have received support from the National Assembly, but because the parent labour bodies are made up as they are, many in the home labour body have completed their next journey. That is why I think it is so much more important for this dictatorship to be rectified in the further process, because we cannot deny the entire national assembly in such important matters. Although we have heard today that due to the control of the epidemic or other exceptional circumstances, there is no possibility for the national assembly to convene very quickly. The National Assembly may meet in 24 hours. At the time of the outbreak, we all acted without problems in the National Assembly. I think that, in most cases, even all 90 Members were present in the National Assembly, so that a number of matters can be resolved. A far-reaching vote has also been put in place, for which we have tried to arrange it even more accessible to all Members and Members who cannot participate for such and other reasons in the plenary session, but there has been a thousand and one thought on the side of the coalition that this is simply not possible, but I think that we are able to get things through without any reservations. It will also be interesting to further examine the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and their concerns to include it in this proposal and to improve it in this part. I also absolutely agree in this context that a broader public debate, a presentation of opinions, is being held. Today is the first case under this law, it is one step forward to clear things up. Although I am a little concerned that very few Members are speaking to us, we will see what will be done next. However, I would also like to say that we have received many proposals at the e-mail address once again not to support this law on communicable diseases, so that this law does not entail compulsory vaccination. I am absolutely opposed to compulsory vaccination alone, not that I am any type of vaccine, but that any approach to vaccination must be voluntary, in no way with any coercion, especially in these vaccines that have come to markets recently. We can see that even in the National Assembly, individuals have been vaccinated three times and are now sick. So vaccination in this context absolutely on a voluntary basis and by no means otherwise. This law, if it comes into Parliament's first hearing, will also need radical changes in the individual articles. I will abstain from this law alone, because I think there are still problems in this law, but I will be happy to participate in the procedure on the homework body and also propose amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Today we are considering the law on communicable diseases, a novel that has come to this Parliament through the so-called civil society Legal Network. It must be said that the current law on communicable diseases, which the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional in some parts, was passed in 1995, during Prime Minister Janez Drnovska, who was considered a very democratic man and leader. We may wonder how this law was established all the time, and now suddenly it is gone. He hasn't objected to anything so far. Now, however, smart heads found themselves finding that he had been unstoppable for 25 years. With the help of this law, the government, as well as the laws in the system we call the PKP packages, i.e. anti-korona packages, implemented measures that managed to contain the epidemic and provided additional intensive beds that Slovenia did not have at the beginning of the epidemic. If you stayed at those capacities, then people would die at home, and it would be mass. Nevertheless, the government managed to arrange these extra beds, intensive beds very quickly, and organized health care to run as well in spite of the epidemic. She also successfully organised vaccination. I've been vaccinated three times myself, and on this occasion allow me to invite viewers and viewers, those who have not yet been vaccinated. I'm not sick yet, you see, not after the omicron. The government has prepared, and the National Assembly has adopted the Health Investment Act and has allocated two billion euros for this. Ljubljana, because I am already a Ljubljana girl, I would like to point out that it will also make a lot of this, but also partly the whole country because of this. The University Clinical Center and the Infectious Clinic will be updated. We're going to get a nursing hospital, and thank you very much to the government for what we're about to get. The government managed this despite openly opposed the KUL coalition. Some MPs here have been throwing masks off their faces. “I will not wear this mask,” was a very famous statement by a Member who today spoke almost three quarters of an hour together and opposed the government. Not to mention cycling without masks and KUL support, also in principle, protests that were also violent and tried to burn us in the National Assembly when we were living Members here and they were throwing fire objects into the building. This government succeeded despite the confusion of the Constitutional Court. This implies that every 14 days it has to renew its decisions or measures. Of course, if there are 14 days of notices, people ask you whether what was in force 14 days ago was still valid or not, what is right and what is wrong. So this confusion is entirely the Constitutional Court's fault, responsible and guilty. The fact that people are constantly fleeing and are now being said to be divided is of course not responsible. Nevertheless, the government has managed to achieve the highest employment ever in the history of Slovenia and in previous times, and this government has managed to create such a gross social product as one of the highest in Europe. In January, if I read the news right today, I already think it's 100 million dollars in surplus in the state treasury. Tell me what's wrong with this government. Thus, parts of people work to contribute so much and so much money to the state budget, that social transfers can also be more easily implemented and that the poorest can also be helped. The present law on communicable diseases, which we have before us today, has some well-intentioned solutions, but it also has something for my notions of impractical proposals. One of these is sure that virtually every such measure would also be addressed by the competent health committee. Look, we've been sitting here since 9:00 today, and there's gonna be three hours of this, and there's gonna be another two hours of debate waiting for us. Imagine what it would be like to discuss every measure that is now being taken under the government's decree to discuss each measure in this way. In the meantime, we would also hear braids of all possible problems that kill some Members. For example, Mrs Heferle discussed the composition of working bodies, which have absolutely nothing to do with today's point of view. And I could list many more of the life stories and personal stories that we Members bring into our debates. This is an entirely impossible situation for the Committee to conclude on these measures. This is then a law not for the prevention of infectious diseases, but for the spread of communicable diseases. This was written by a man who has no idea how parliamentary matters run and how the government works. Indeed, civil society, all recognition for your work and decency, but you have no idea about the functioning of Parliament. I should also mention the composition of the section. The composition of the section is incomplete. If you already list all these profiles that are supposed to be in the expert group, there is no teacher, andragog. Look, we have 200 thousand primary schools and 100 thousand secondary schools and 100,000 students and 100,000 children in kindergartens. It's a huge crowd of people if you count their parents. Of course, there should also be a way of doing things, so there should also be a teacher here to tell you how to teach in such situations. We have witnessed all possible ideas of smart heads, how we could learn from a distance with a single teacher and run, say, biology for all students at the same time across Slovenia. Look, school isn't television, school's not a show. School is a lot of other things, it's education, it's every student's occupation. But the students are not Smith from the Matrix, where they are all the same, and where everyone understands the same, they understand the same quickly, they think, but they have to deal with each individual. Educators and andragogues know that, but there's no such thing as a professional group. This means that the epidemiologist will decide how school instruction is to be conducted. Yeah, great, and then I can decide which pills someone's gonna take. I want to know how we're gonna live. If I go back to inoperability again. Look, if we discuss what measures are being taken on the committees, then there will be a lot of debate, it will not be productive. For example, the SD commented on how this government does everything without a public debate. Of course, we should have a public debate, and then we should have a measure, and that time would have killed so many and so many people. By the way, the SD, which made this comment, Dr. Pikalo, then Minister of Education, closed schools overnight, there was absolutely no public debate. And they're reading. Mrs. Slug said something about a farmer's mind. Look, if we had a farmer's mind, we wouldn't be sitting here for three hours and two more to discuss this law. The farmer’s brain would certainly not allow the law to be adopted in such a way that it becomes completely inoperable. Mr. Möderndorfer said the government has some ideas. Yeah, who does he have? His? And that the Prime Minister is lying. That's what a man who's been through nine clients says. If we involve all these things in our debates, because Parliament is the subject of debate but not operational, then we can only promise from this law that there will certainly be a lot of places in the homes for the elderly, because we will all die before any measure reaches us. So, I'm sorry, I can't support such a law with such a provision. But I can't support it because they're actually interfering with powers. The National Assembly has its powers. The government has its powers. The court has its powers. The Constitutional Court, whose decisions I respect, even though in this part, as it has reacted to this law, makes no sense to me. Look, most of the countries have actually regulated matters in an epidemic of decrees. And, for example, as the Prime Minister has said, the Italian Prime Minister could, without the government, take decisions on his own. In these emergency situations, it is sometimes necessary to react quickly. What we can admit to this government is that it acted quickly, yet it was based on the law, whatever it was. But who knew that after 25 years, the Constitutional Court would remember that the 1995 law was unconstitutional. At the time of the epidemic. That was neither fair nor meaningful. I want to actually adopt a law on communicable diseases that is operational enough and at the same time broad enough. If you write everything too detailedly into some marriage, then the sooner the matter runs out. Who knew there'd be a covid-19? If a marriage were to be written in a whole collection of diseases, there would be once a new disease and the marriage would no longer be operational. I'm just saying this as an illustration so we don't write too much detail. At the same time, all fundamental human rights and at the same time the right to health, to which we all have the right, must be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is given by Janja Služ, the proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you. Although I have very little time left, as does our parliamentary group, as well, but I think we need to make a call here. Speaking of knitting and knitting, it was now, merchants would say, a XXL offer of knitting. I don't even know if you'd lose words for all the nonsense that's been said. Let's certainly get something to say to each other. After 25 years, the Constitutional Court did not remember: “This law is unconstitutional.” The Constitutional Court so decided because the Government has taken measures and restricted human rights as it has, following current inspiration and with the full exclusion of the legislator. That's why it happened. No one has done this before this government, and for 25 years the court had no reason to find this unconstitutionality. The other thing is, who knew he was gonna be a cobbler? Nobody knew. I agree. No one knew he was going to be a co-vide, but now he's been a co-vide for two years. But in two years, I hope we've figured out what such an epidemic means, and of course we're all together, I don't know if it's you, but we've found that the U.N.B. needs to change. Why? So that no government will ever do such nonsense again. In order to limit each government to tell what can be done, how it can be accepted, what the content of the procedures are running, what the role of the profession in these measures, what the professional needs to be heard, how the profession must also be made public in order for people to understand that the government obviously understands what the expert opinions are. If the government fails to follow these opinions, it must explain and justify why not. And that's the whole point of this marriage. But you obviously don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. A replica of Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u36	I'm sorry, Mrs. Janja Sluga. I didn't hurt anyone. You said I was stupid. All right, everybody's got an opinion on who. But it's a bonton, the way you put it. What measures did you have in mind that were not good were not legal? Limitation of movement? That's not true. The movement limit was adopted by law. A lesson in the distance? The long-term education was adopted on the basis of the law, namely the CAP, and the restriction of movement on the basis of the Law on Infectious Diseases. And it wasn't just us who had movement restrictions. It was all over Europe. It is said that the whole of Europe has worked unconstitutionally. That's impossible thinking. It's a distance lesson. What was wrong with that? If we let learning happen live so that we don't go far, then imagine that today's omicron would be a delta. What would it be? That would be a nightmare. Now you can see how bad it would actually be if there were no further instruction. But that wasn't right your way either. And that's the opposite or what? Professional opinions. That the government didn't take professional opinions into account. She had an expert group. Were there butchers inside or something? What about the seams and the tailors? They are also experts, of course, in their fields. I'm sorry if someone didn't think anything was wrong. But there were doctors in this professional group. We have also witnessed that doctors have ever had the opposite opinion among themselves. There were also conflicting opinions in the public. Although they were very much in the minority, we live in democracy. Some people, however, have professional opposite opinions. Of course, it was necessary to decide which opinion to follow. It is normal for the government to take into account and follow the opinion of the expert group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Gradually, Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u38	Dear President, I hope we have come to the conclusion that this was no replica at all. I am now taking this procedural step in the defence of civil society, which has been appointed and cannot be defended. The lady did not speak of being misunderstood, but she continued her discussion and accused me of saying she was stupid, which of course she did not. But I said it was nonsense. And, please, be consistent. As you can be consistent with the opposition Members, be consistent with the coalitions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Look, the colleague explained this dilemma of misunderstandings about the legislation and constitutionality and the decision of the Constitutional Court. I don't think there's anything wrong here. I think it was some misunderstanding in this part. However, today's debate is quite broad, even before I started leading. So we can decide to go strictly according to the criteria or in this context, as the debate goes on. As you wish. It's fine with me and each other. I don't have a problem with that. Now I suggest we move on. Moja žnidarič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! As I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, in the Group of Members, we will be prepared to participate in the necessary improvements in the proposal of the Law on Infectious Diseases in this first reading. The operationality of marriage is certainly necessary, every law, especially this. The speed of action and the effectiveness of the measures are also certainly crucial. It seems very important to me that there is a very broad public debate on this subject on this subject, and I will also, when this opportunity is in place, support the presentation of public opinions. As we can see, the e-mails to our e-mail addresses are coming back again, people are writing firmly against the UNB-D, so I think if people hear about the UNB, they're already very upset. As we know today, we have also heard that the applicable law on communicable diseases is from 1995 and certainly needs to be changed. Article 39 experienced minor corrections in 2020, when we corrected it in PKP1, in the first anti-korona measure, because the previous version of the law provided for the Minister of Health to propose his own measures and then to inform the Government and the National Assembly. Then we went a little wider in PKP1, so the government is responsible for the measures and the government then informs the national assembly. It is true, however, that in the current draft law, which we have said has been in force since 1995, the legislative branch of the authorities, that is to say, the national assembly has not been included in these measures. I would like to say once again what some of you have already warned us to calm people down, we are not talking about any compulsory vaccination today, this law does not contain and this is not the subject of today's proposal. This bill, presented today by the President of the National Assembly, as we have heard, was drafted by civil society - the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy. So it's not government if people are afraid and don't trust this government, it's civil society. The only dilemma that comes to mind or to us in the Group of Members is whether a health and other necessary profession has been sufficiently involved. I have a feeling that the main thing that prevailed was the legal profession. It is true, however, that there is a need for a wider profession to participate in such an important topic, namely health care and others mentioned earlier. We were also told that we had all rejected the government law that had been prepared together. Indeed, even in the Group of Members, we specifically rejected the proposal for a law drawn up by the Government. And already, as in today's position, we have pointed out the proportionality of the measures. At that time, the Ombudsman’s key opinion was that of us, which he also clearly and aloud wrote down and pointed out that all measures should be set out more proportionately. What bothers us in this proposal of the law is, above all, this fourth paragraph of Article 39.b. I am a member of the Health Committee myself, and I do not want to, you said earlier that all Members would not be able to decide on this and that Members of the Health Committee would probably be under too much pressure to decide on these measures themselves. It seems to me that it is possible at the first stage when it is 30 and 60 days, but at the second stage I would think it would be really more reasonable for the National Assembly to decide than two-thirds of the working body, that is, the Health Committee. But here I think it's the key operationality of the National Assembly. In my opinion, under such rules as now, the National Assembly is not operational. Members will be sick, but they cannot vote because the session is not convened because it is not extraordinary because it is regular. We have no options, no committees have any possibility of voting or discussing it remotely. So I think that in this direction it would also have to be changed in order to make the National Assembly operational if such a law were to be adopted. I am running out of time, so I believe we will have another opportunity to discuss and improve this law. As I say, I'll support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u42	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Much has already been said about this law today. Of course, it's a very important marriage. It is a law that causes again a very large number of people to be upset and once again we Members have begun to receive a very large number of different messages, where different people demand that we decide on behalf of the people in one way or another. The problem is especially when people write to us who demand one thing on behalf of the people and another on behalf of the people another thing. Then, of course, we are in a dilemma which people now listen to. As the law permits, and as the Constitution commands, it is ultimately necessary to decide that this is good for all citizens, in its own conscience and belief, in a way that will benefit as many people as possible. At present, as has been said several times, the old law on communicable diseases is still in force, a law that has been prepared long before this epidemic, an epidemic that is not only before Slovenia, but before all countries has put many dilemmas, many questions. As in many countries, the Constitutional Court has responded to many of our dilemmas. Regardless of how anyone feels about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, these decisions are as they are, and in this regard they are binding on us as legislators. If the Constitutional Court was clear on anything, it was clear that, when it said that the executive power, it was said that every time a government, not just that government, could not deal with certain issues in an original way, but should leave them to the legislator. In particular, it was clear that the Constitutional Court should be very careful when it comes to issues affecting the most important human rights and freedoms. In particular, it is necessary to ensure that certain interventions are in principle regulated by law and that the law, as well as those provisions state, regulates as much as possible when and under what conditions and for what period a measure can be taken, by whom it can be adopted, by whom it can then be supplemented, and so on. This is a challenge that awaits us as legislator in the adoption of this law. We in the SAB Group have recently adopted a Minister of Health who has come to our parliamentary group to present the previous law on communicable diseases, which then fell into the National Assembly. And even when the Minister was with us, we told him at this meeting: “Minister, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court, this, this and this could be disputed. The Minister, in the light of all the responses and in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, should you consider whether it makes sense to keep this and that in law.” The Minister was very well-intentioned, attached to our concerns, said he agreed that it was essential, that a legal basis should be laid down that would allow the measures to be taken legally and not to fall in the Constitutional Court. But at the end of some of these corrections that we would expect, there was no marriage at all. In addition, another civil movement was launched, including people who had not apparently read the law, in the direction that they would be imprisoned in some camps, and we received such letters, especially in the direction that the law introduces compulsory vaccination, because this is clearly the most concerned. Even in this law, which it has written, as has already been said thousands of times today, civil society, some important lawyers, some responsible people, who want to solve this problem that we have, have also begun the same pressures in this law, the same letters, they have the same doubts. And that's something we can all worry about. The fact that the previous marriage did not respond satisfactorily to the dilemmas and that it was still somewhat problematic. This shows that even members of the coalition rejected him in the National Assembly in July. This has been said so much today that I will not repeat myself. It is indeed responsible, on the one hand, that someone, even if they were civil society, took this and made another proposal. Again, I must say that I do not agree with the fact that we have fallen asleep in the opposition or that we have not been prepared or able to write down our proposal. Not at all. We did not write in the opposition of our proposal because we simply do not have a majority in the National Assembly. And since we don't have a majority, we don't know what and how our marriage proposal would change and what would eventually be adopted. In all attempts, and also in view of what has been written in the government law and in all attempts at some authoritarian intervention in our society, we were simply afraid that the law drafted by the opposition would be subject to so many changes in the parliamentary procedure and additions in a direction that would not suit us in the end to obtain a purely different law. Therefore, in this situation, when we do not have a convincing majority, we did not risk such a law. But this same dilemma exists here. Here, too, in this law, which was written by civil society, we are concerned about what will change in this law and in what way, and whether in the end, this law, which, if adopted, will have even the essential components of what we have received on the table and on which I can agree, in essence, to respond to the essential issues of the Constitutional Court or to what the Constitutional Court has replied. Whether a committee of the National Assembly, or the entire National Assembly, has a decision to make after a certain period of time, is not a key issue for me. This is a problem that, with some normal dialogue, could be solved with one amendment and, as most would think, it is right, because we are only in a democracy where most of us prevail in this way would solve this situation. For me personally, a solution with a committee would be entirely acceptable if the committee were to be proportionately composed, as it should be. However, since we have for the first time in this National Assembly the situation that the committees are made up disproportionately, that the parties having four Members have two Members in key committees, but of course we are all a little distrustful together and we want to raise things to a higher level, that is to say at the level of the National Assembly. As a matter of fact, in a normal situation, that would not seem at all controversial to me. Second thing. In view of all the fears, objections and dilemmas and so forth, it is absolutely necessary that such a law, which has now been reforming for many years, the law in force, be adopted in the normal procedure and through dialogue, be discussed with the entire civil society. We are Members of the whole nation, and we must also respond to the dilemmas of some of the anti-vaccinators and others, even though we find ourselves a dilemma artificial or perhaps even ridiculous. That is why we have also supported in the SAB the idea that we are adopting the law on a regular basis, so that general treatment can also be carried out. We will also support the idea that there will be a public presentation of opinions on this law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that representatives of the profession and representatives of the various public, including civil society, can come to the house and present their views on this law. When the Members hear this, then no one will be able to tell us that any public debate and discussion was not possible. In the framework of our Rules of Procedure, we will ensure as much as possible here. It is also very important to hear the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. While I am often the one to say that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is just another legal opinion to be respected, and I respect and take into account, in particular, the gravity of the arguments contained in such an opinion, but I always say that the employees of the Legislative and Legal Service are only experts in the legislative process and legislative texts, and to assess whether it is written in accordance with what the Constitutional Court has stressed, it is something I absolutely trust that they will know how to do as possible and to say if this law has adequately answered these dilemmas or whether there are still some open questions in this law, where it is still necessary to be careful and say some things more specifically. If I sum up, we will definitely be in the SAB. No, first of all, let me say that I, the 10th or 12th today, that this law does not introduce compulsory vaccination, nor does it have any assumptions for imposing compulsory vaccination, as some may wish to show, or as some who already write to us are afraid. [[…]] First of all, this. Otherwise, in the SAB, we are convinced that the situation of regulation rule needs to be addressed. Not only does it damage the reputation of our country, but it does damage particularly to the citizens' trust in the rule of law and power. Even though this is now John Janša, it can be an untrustworthy thing that could be passed on to another government. Therefore, constitutional decisions should be taken into account and this outdated law should be amended. In view of everything we say, we will therefore support the law before us in the SAB. We'll support that he's suitable for second reading. Once again, we will sign and request a public presentation of the opinions on this law, which can only be made after the general discussion has been concluded, and we will read carefully the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. After this debate, after a public presentation of the opinions, in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we will finally decide whether the law is suitable for consideration and, as I say, for once it seems that it is, but it is not yet our final decision. I will also continue to listen carefully to your debates, Members of Parliament and Members, and then I hope that we will, in the opposition of the KUL and so on, decide together what further steps are needed to make this law as good as possible, as credible as possible, and that it will inspire confidence in people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, on the one hand, we are listening to an incredible complication, on the other hand an incredible banalization, and I wonder why we have a new law on communicable diseases today. Because the Government has decided that it will become everything overnight to replace the National Assembly to replace the Constitutional Court in order to replace the profession in order to replace the National Institute for Public Health, it could also mention. This has also found it very easy, if we banalise to the end, including the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court requires that the measures taken by the Government are proportionate and that they be re-substantiated for a certain period of time. Nothing else. Then it even stopped by assessing the constitutionality of the following decrees until this unconstitutionality was lifted. Today to hear about how the National Assembly can be inoperable at an extraordinary time, but it is, at all, I will not say no, but it is vile. Let us recall some of the government's measures taken Saturday night at the letter meeting and say they will be explained at the press conference on Monday, starting on Monday. That's what the Constitutional Court says. It is not a question of some will, it is not a question of one person, one profession, one advisory group. This is a matter of public health and the whole country and must have a legal basis for this. What does the Law on Infectious Diseases require today, not just this new one? It does not specify compulsory vaccination, it is done by the minister himself, adding one vaccination to the rules, which he has already done. The Law on Infectious Diseases provides for the conduct of the Government in the event of an infectious disease. Therefore, it is now essential that we introduce what material into the law, that we have the National Assembly, the profession and all involved in this process of sufficient control mechanisms and that the Constitution be respected. And this is the division of power. The government can't take over the role of the National Assembly. He can't and he can't. But we have seen that this is in practice happening to us with a large consensus of coalition parties. Control mechanisms are important. The National Assembly is still a constitutional one that adopts legislation, regardless of whether the President of the Government thinks that the proposal for a new law is unconstitutional. He may think so, but the rulings he signed are unconstitutional, which the Constitutional Court has already concluded. That's the difference, that's who we're going to trust. The Constitutional Court simply requires legal support for the implementation of the measures. Pika, it's over. That's it. Today we are arguing whether this proposal is unconstitutional. I don't know if it is. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. I'm willing to take my chances. In fact, what has happened now is against the Constitution, against the law. It's not easy, of course it's not easy. But it's simply a matter of trust. If the one who adopts decisions does not have the power to justify them and adapt them to the situation, then I really do not know what the problem is. If he can't substantiate them, he's no longer credible. The situation is changing. If we did not change, then we would not need parliament either, we would not always need to adopt new legislation. I'd say once, that's it, dot, dot, dot, dot. But we know it's not that things change. The environment that adapts to these changes should also be changed. You didn't feel that need. You didn't have to. The Constitutional Court is guilty, the protestors are guilty, you declare an epidemic, you don't declare it, you cancel it, you even have a series of correspondence sessions in the government, now. We're already talking about the government here. The government enforces laws, and we accept them. We talk about government as if they are the same interlocutor, equal. It's not. The government under the Constitution is in line with the National Assembly, not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I'll continue where Robbie ended up. Let us first ask ourselves the question of who rules. Who's in charge? Janez Janša? Anti-Pianist? No, no, no. In constitutional parliamentary democracy, there are laws, as Ali Jerdin wrote well before. There are laws. The one who adopts laws knows. So far, we have a two-house parliamentary system. The one who enforces the laws is also known. That's why we call that branch of power the executive branch of power. And yes, as Robbie said, because I like to repeat, after the 110th article, any government is in charge of the National Assembly. At the same time, all Members and Members of Parliament have a very difficult task, as Masha has said. Part of citizens and citizens want to do this, part of them like this. And I would never be a Member if it were not for that record in an article that speaks of Members, that we are not bound to any instructions. You have specifically said that Parliament is not operational. It's up to us how operable or inoperable we are. If you have a Chairman of the Health Committee - the Health Committee does not exist in this National Assembly, there is a Ministry of Health, which during the Twitter break, is a Chichva about KUL losers, and when Soni asks her why she does it, she says, it's politics. No, it's not politics, it's primitiveism. If you have a Chairman of the Health Committee, which I come to ask for a word, then it begins to linger literally that I have fallen into her intimate space to threaten her family and from some basement on Trstenjak you throw out how the police had to drag Trce out of the National Assembly. The idea of parliamentaryism was meant for some people who are capable of opinions and who are capable, the style is the physiognomy of the spirit and also of the rules of procedure and so on, how some narrows are supposed to take place. Let's move on. On 13 March 2020, we were already very clear on what lies ahead. We had Bergamo across the border, we had Ivi from NSI, who was yelling more than she was saying where this virus was, why Charec had not imported it, which literally shamed us, when I also invited the Italian ambassador to the Health Committee. I can honestly say that while I was chairing this committee myself, there was in fact no meeting to discuss with both Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents, now Secretary of State, colleague Godec of SDS and colleague Jozet of LMŠ. I also consulted Bojana from SD and Ivi from NSI as a rule. Others somehow felt no need. Yes, in this way, I will immediately bless what we are being asked to do by prominent legal experts. But as far as it's concerned, I'm afraid the Health Committee isn't going to work that way. I also agree with my colleague the Boxer about some thought. It probably wouldn't hurt to have someone from the Pedagogical-Andragogical profession sitting in this sort of professional greme. However, if we are clear after two years, we are aware that the epidemiological issues before are the questions of some of the professions from which I come, rather than merely, with all due respect, medical professions. Of course, you need to understand the virus and its logic, as far as possible at a given time, but epidemiological issues are issues of sociology, psychology, social psychology, and andragogics, and if you want to be able to design on the ALU, how do you present with some pictograms some rules, that you will be able to read them from a three-year-old and a hundred-year-old from some knapov valley. And this is where we drove off pretty good. Now in this pre-election period, when we talk about all living things - what has the Constitutional Court told us? We need a law on infectious diseases because of all of us. If there's anything wrong with the virus, it's good not to watch if you have a party card SDS, SD, LMŠ or Freedoms, specifically or not. I have no illusion that the next government will find something crazy easier about these matters. It will be even more difficult because the folk are already rocking to the extremes, and to a large extent we are jointly responsible for this, both for the executive power and for us in the National Assembly. That's why we need to think hard, talk, deal, what Masha said, some procedure, how to get there. For the vast majority of countries, let's be honest, had this legislation out of date because we were facing a different pandemic. And smarter than us, they've already arranged it somehow. And it was true, the Minister of Health was walking through the parliamentary groups, we were talking, something was nodding, he was listening, we thought there was something going on in there, and then you decided, like you were, coalition government. Any government, and I am already under a third government, but Cerarjevo has already started to do so, can put in Parliament, hesitate, only as many Members and Members as we allow, or even state councilors and saints. It's very simple. We must somehow assume our affirmative role and the complexity and responsibility of this profession. I'm basically an optimistic pessimist about this. In the first reading, I will support this, but I have no illusions that we will accept the optimal UNB in this pre-election period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. I, too, should say that I look forward to this debate today, because in the two years of the epidemic we were unable to sit and talk about it. Whenever Janez Janša is in power, civil society is finally aware of its roles and is activated even more than ever. Why? Because democracy is under threat. And it's civil society that preserves democracy. The role of the National Assembly is to exercise stricter control of the government and, as formerly said, colleague Pavšič, yes, we are here to impose on the Government what to do. But that's how government representatives come and make fun of us, when they're asking questions, they're making eye contact with us, and I have to say that I've never experienced politics in my eight years. Why isn't the Minister of Health here today? To at least send some secretaries. It's also a sign to me that he doesn't care what we say. It is only fitting that what the Government decides at night and then we are witnessing that the Minister of the Interior lays down these measures. What colleagues have already mentioned, I think it is good that we will have a broader debate and that we will also come up with a public presentation of the opinions. It is indeed necessary to hear all those involved, including those who are afraid of vaccination, including those who advocate it, including those who see the problems completely sociologically where we are today. The fact is, unfortunately, in these two years, the ruling coalition has used the health epidemic for anything but to solve this problem, but to weaken public health, to take over power, to enrich individuals, to create strange businesses, even to acquire war equipment. And it's no wonder people are full of fear. We do have a totalitarian mind on the one hand, a dictatorship that imposes certain measures on us overnight, decrees and, on the other hand, a great deal of fear. Therefore, every time we talk about a cobbler, the mail boxer is smothered by calls, let us not support a law that would allow mandatory vaccination and some interference in intimacy and personality. As we know, it's not surprising, because you can expect a lot from this government. People say you're all the same because you're all right. We're not all the same. You must be aware that the opposition, with one rather weak here and there, is able to stop those most brutal interventions by this government into human privacy rather than the inviolability of the body, apartment and home. You've always talked about how untouchable property is when we were talking about that we should ever carefully cut into that right, and today they dream about breaking into our apartments, reviewing our closets and surrenders, and I don't know what kind of checks they're still doing. See, that's what people are afraid of. I am a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and last week we also discussed this, because there are many things happening that the right governments, in particular, take advantage of this opportunity to extend their powers. WE HAVE a silence in this case, although the central public is a health institution with a circus of 500 employees, but this government allows the President of the Government to decide what measures will apply or even an internal minister. The management of this epidemic is in fact unprofessional and irresponsible, political governance with the epidemic. This law is also a kind of struggle against authoritarianism. Aristotle has already said, and many have quoted him, this saying has given birth to a person who submits to his freedom to a sense of security, a rightful slave, says, is not worthy of freedom, nor of security. And that's a fact. Regardless of how some feel threatened by this epidemic, human rights must be respected — from the Nuremberg Code, the Helsinki Declaration, the Ovieda Declaration, the Geneva Declaration and so on. These are also international acts. Not to say that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is also a very important act that we should respect. But this government blames every increase in infections on every court, protestor, opposition, and never remembers that when they point to others, it would be possible to see at least three pointing back at it. For we know that they purchased equipment that did not work, respirators that were weak, testers that were not reliable, masks that did not work, that employees had to work regardless of the infection, and on the other hand, masks had to be worn by people when walking in nature, regardless of whether these masks worked or not. Remember the high penalties for eating burek on the church staircase or the ingrained family she shared, I don't know what, ice cream or whatever. In short, this madness must be stopped. Not to mention the erosion of the patient's rights. This privatisation of public health, which has taken place in these two years, is terrifying. And no one talks about cardiovascular diseases and fatalities, untreated cancers. The waiting species have grown horribly and here health care has completely canceled. Some say the cobbler won because he has better marketing. But in fact all diseases are equivalent and should also be treated. Not to mention how some people had to wait for covid test for emergency surgery, burned children in a cell hospital, and so on. Schools — what major hardships occur because of government decisions. I'm not even going to mention primary school kids who take their whole lives out of desperation. Lockdowns. In short, the complete confusion of the government and therefore it is really necessary to talk about it and especially to address every fear of people, to respond to every fear and not just to intimidate people. The streets are full, and we won't say anti-waxers, because that's the easiest way to piss off people who want to protect themselves and their families. It's not that simple. There were so many kicks in the face of this disease that it's just logical for people to say, "That's enough, we don't believe you." I will conclude with Craig's thought: “The number of infected falls, but we also see growth.” This is the kind of absurdity that comes up, and my minute is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Proposer! Colleagues and colleagues! I listened attentively in my office for a practical whole discussion, almost four hours. The assessment is that for about ten minutes, it was devoted to this law, which we are considering, which must have been carefully prepared by a group of experts. We have also accepted them, three of these groups, and we have also asked them very specific questions. Some had clear answers and some were clearly told that they did not have an answer. But it's okay. I am among the signatories to the demand for this general debate, so I am here, so I will also discuss at least 95% exclusively about the law and everything around the law. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because we have a problem with the unconstitutionality of the adopted law on communicable diseases in 1995. This was the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the highest constitutional political institution in the country. Of course, it is political because it protects our highest political act, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The resultant of most of the debates reminds me of some face-to-face on national television, when the most clear and logical questions were asked by a journalist who is a member of the eminence of our national television house, Mrs Lidija Hren. She asked in front of the opposition: “What would you do during the epidemic, the pandemic? How about you? Would you rule with decrees?” Because it's now the greatest death sin and so on. What answers have we received, ladies and gentlemen? Does anyone remember anything? I don't. I remember more or less some embarrassment. In order to protect our colleagues who are sitting between us, I will conclude this sub-chapter of my debate here. In addition to the Constitution, when it comes to communicable diseases, we also have the Penal Code, more precisely Article 177. Of course, the public does not know what this 177th Article is talking about. He's very old. About as much as our country. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, to say at least a few of the points in this article how serious it is, in fact, to address our behaviour, every citizen when it comes to the epidemic or the transmission of communicable diseases. This is chapter 20 of the Penal Code, which speaks of crimes against human health. The first paragraph of this Article states: “Who does not comply with the rules or regulations by which the competent authority imposes an inspection, disinfection, expulsion of patients or any other measures to suppress or prevent communicable disease in humans, thereby causing the communicable disease to spread, shall be punished with a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to one year. In my opinion, this paragraph is the most important of the four paragraphs of this Article. However, I recommend reading Article 177 of the Penal Code to each of the citizens and citizens who will want to deepen themselves. I get e-mails myself. With regard to this law we're considering, I got about 200 e-mails. People are sending us e-mails like in some other laws, such as the government proposal for a novel law on communicable diseases before parliamentary holidays, when the Constitutional Court imposed on us only 60 days to correct unconstitutionality in the existing law on communicable diseases. This simply did not work, we have seen that there is simply not even the slightest support from the opposition and at the same time there was no concrete proposal by the KUL to study and integrate it into a government solution. Which means, on the other hand, it was clear that the referendum would fall and the effect of drinking water would be repeated. I would also like to expect a citizen, Robert Golob, who has the exclusive right to come to this temple of democracy and to have a press conference here, to make clear, however, about some of the most pressing matters of our society, what he thinks he would like to be, if he succeeds, I will be among the first to congratulate him, who would like to be the president of the next Slovenian government. Could he say two sentences, what he thinks of infectious diseases, of epidemics, but even more specifically of this law, which the colleague and colleagues put into parliamentary procedure? This is today the most important political topic in this country. If I were a journalist, that would be the first thing I'd ask him. Well, let him say it. I say that Nova Slovenija has already communicated publicly that it is against compulsory vaccination. In some ways, I see consensus here, although the profession could probably be unified, it is not yet, as I understand it, and it is actually an expert question, a hand to the heart, but we are taking political decisions and we also need to understand the state of the spirit in society. Today, it is certainly fragmented that compulsory vaccination is out of the question because we are fragmented. If Mr Golob ever comes as a citizen in this house again, I am sure he will get this question: what do you think about the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infectious Diseases, prepared by legal experts? Article 17 of the Constitution is extremely important for us, ladies and gentlemen. He's talking about the inviolability of human life. Very simple content to remember. Human life is untouchable. Pika. Many interpreters, commentators of the Slovenian Constitution have dealt with this and it is interesting to read their comments, the comments of the Constitution. The constitutional provision on the inviolability of human life is listed first in the Constitutional Catalogue of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This means that other fundamental freedoms are included in the second, third, fourth and so on. But in the first place is the inviolability of human life. Together with constitutional provisions relating to the prohibition of torture, inhuman or degrading punishment or conduct, to the right to the protection of human personality and dignity, to the presumption of innocence, to the principle of legality in criminal proceedings, to the provision of legal guarantees in criminal proceedings and to the freedom to exercise freedom of religion or other belief. Human life is untouchable. This also means, in my view, that every single government must do its utmost to ensure that this constitutional provision is also being implemented. Thus, in the event of an infectious disease, an epidemic, pandemics must do everything to ensure that infections do not spread so that human life does not end. Of course, it hurts because then there are other freedoms, and they have to be limited because otherwise there is no way. 80% of the debate was in terms of criticism of the government's operation, although everything was wrong and virtually everything was not. The measures taken by this government if they were rational, fair and comparable with other countries, they would quickly find that they were the nicest in Slovenia. But let's go back to this marriage. Some of you have already challenged, and this is the 4.5 percent of this debate, the competence of the Health Committee, because in some ways the role of the National Assembly is excluded and everything is actually focused, focusing on the Health Committee as a working body. The Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative also dealt with some of the questions that we asked the authors. We need Members to consider all possible scenarios of how the law, if adopted, will work to actually be feasible. If this is an exponential spread of infections, I am firmly convinced that the National Assembly or the Health Committee must respond practically at night, if you want. Every late hour can mean a few hundred, a few thousand more infections. We don't know, colleagues and colleagues, what's waiting for us, what kinds of strains of this coronary virus or some other viruses of the coronavirus and so on. We do not know what lies ahead, and we can quickly see that in 20 years' time the Constitutional Court will also find that this law is unconstitutional if we adopt it. Before I proceed with the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, let me say that we will confirm that the law is suitable for further consideration, and then we will expect, above all, constitutional experts who will tell their own medical expertise, and we will endeavour to have a public presentation of opinions on this very important law, so that the debate based on professional opinions will finally reach the target. And if it's the right will, we can make a good marriage. It's not our intention to tear it down, otherwise I wouldn't be here today. Now the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Consultative Referendum. Here, colleagues and colleagues from the Left Group are experts, and I believe that they will only attach to my warnings. The National Assembly may hold a consultative referendum on issues of its competence which are of wider importance to citizens. Is it more important for citizens to decide on the National Health Committee? Yes, it is. What if a Member submits a request for an advisory referendum? Well, this group of lawyers didn't have an answer. I believe he may already have it today, or at least when he listens to my debate. Pursuant to Article 28 of the National Assembly, a consultation referendum may be held before it finally decides on an individual issue. We have already mastered this, we have already mastered this practice, we have been learning about it for several months. Now, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, chapter seven, the referendum procedure, article 184: "The proposal that the National Assembly, on its initiative, sign a referendum established by law, be submitted by the Member in writing. The proposal should make clear the issue that should be the subject of the referendum. The proposal must be reasoned.” Article 184, third paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure: “The proposal shall be placed on the agenda of the first next meeting of the National Assembly if it is submitted no later than 30 days before that meeting.” Imagine what delay until the final adoption may result in a purely legally sound and commercially justified request for a consultative referendum. We've already completed these lessons, we understand that. So these will be the questions that we will open and want to have exact answers from the authors, not so much from the proponents, but from the authors, that this law will actually be watertight. That's what I'm ending up with. As we say, colleagues and colleagues, we will unanimously support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u52	Yes, I will now proceed here, where my colleague Horvath has just finished, because I did not fully understand. Today we are considering this law, which will be brought to a close in the course of the regular legislative procedure. Whether we accept it or not, let's say we accept it and confirm it, which, of course, will mean that the government manages an epidemic with government orders under this law. And I don't understand where we see the referendum problem here in this story. On government orders or something? I did not understand exactly, but I believe that we will continue to clear things up, because even in our Group of Members, if support for the first reading of this law is shown tomorrow, we think it would be good to make a public presentation of the opinions. I believe that then we will also come up with all these questions that are bothering us today. However, it is necessary to say that civil society has in fact taken a considerable time for this law and has also been very widely coordinated. In my first advertisement, I have already read a number of outstanding names of legal professionals who participated in the drafting of this law. And if I quote here from an interview, what the representatives of the Legal Network for Democracy said about the drafting of the law themselves: “In writing and drawing up the text, about ten people participated, and then we included external experts with whom we consulted, including epidemiologists.” That's what they said because it was today, I didn't quite remember who pointed out that epidemiologists weren't asked anything, but they were. Then they say that the law went through the hands of more than 20 experts who made their own comments and then carried out additional rounds of coordination. Nevertheless, I support today's debate in essence, which is really a substitute for that debate that was lacking at the meeting of the President of the National Assembly when the President convened this meeting and we were essentially meant to talk about all these solutions, and we did not. It's just today, because there's always another way to get to a goal. As we say, we also support and will prepare a request for a public presentation of opinions. At that time, we expect everyone who has participated in the drafting of this text. I also expect the maximum participation of all parliamentary groups to listen to these people, and we will have a chance to ask them that we will get answers. I believe that the many dilemmas we face today will be resolved. I have also talked a few times before about the fact that in our Group of Members, in principle, we have no problem with being a parliamentary working body, that is, the Health Committee, which would decide. It would be further informed and then would also agree on the measures to be taken by the Government. However, on the condition that I have already mentioned it, the working bodies in the National Assembly should reflect the relationship between the coalition: the opposition would then reflect within this relationship the relationship of individual parliamentary groups. Today, we all know that's not the case. From this point of view, this is certainly problematic. If we want to resolve this dilemma for all future times, because you know that there is a great deal of pressure on the way with some reference to some previous practice, and that is exactly what could happen to us now, in which case we are sure to make this decision in plenary. As we are told, even a five-hour debate, as the colleague mentioned earlier, does not seem to me to be an obstacle to slowing down epidemic management procedures in any way. On the contrary. The five-hour debate is what the government should have done by now if it wanted citizens and citizens to understand why certain measures had been taken, why certain solutions had been taken, why not others, why not some exceptions and why not others. That's exactly what's been missing for two years now. With such a five-hour debate in the National Assembly or even more, if you want, it will happen that first we, and then people will understand what something is, what something is not, why it has been taken into account, why not elsewhere, and what the profession has suggested. With that, I think, there's nothing wrong. We're here 24/7, as they say. If it's necessary overnight, we'll do it. I don't have any problems with that. This has also been done several times, in addition to what I have said myself, during the war of independence, when five plenary meetings took place in 16 days. I believe that we will also find solutions, because today's coalition colleague has been worried about how we will meet if certain Members are infected – we already have solutions for this. So these meetings will certainly not be regular, they will certainly be extraordinary, and there is no problem in the involvement of Members at a distance. But I'm glad my colleagues are interested in what Dr. Golob thinks about certain subjects. I'm sure he'll be happy to explain his views when the time is right. It is interesting, however, that a colleague says he is interested in what a particular citizen thinks, because in the past this coalition did not really care what citizens think about the measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Replica, colleague of Violet Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u54	I would like to replicate to the debater Mr Horvath, who talked about everything, I also think about the referendum and other things and quote the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u55	But colleague Tomić, he has not spoken now, Mr. Horvat. The replica shall also be considered as a replica as soon as the debater speaks, not as a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u56	Well, well, well. Now the proposer had a word that had the upper hand. Excuse me, President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u57	Okay, but please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u58	Just give me a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u59	No, wait a minute. You're not teaching me. You have alerted the proposer, but please raise your hand next time you feel challenged for the replica. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u60	I'm sorry I looked in the office. I just want to read Article 18 of the Constitution, he deliberately omitted paragraph: “It is forbidden for a person to do medical or other scientific experiments without his free consent.” Thank you so much for letting me read this through. When quoting the Constitution, let us be honest and quote the articles as they are written, which is why this government manipulates and violates the Constitution because it reads it selectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, did you want a replica? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am grateful to the proposer that she has listened and heard my debate on the referendum, which is probably relevant at this point, and in the stage of the public presentation and further discussions, we will certainly drink this matter out and clear it. When you asked me why you didn't understand the referendum. It is a consultation referendum on the agreement to extend the government regulation which lays down measures to limit infection. This decision is under the responsibility of the Health Committee of the National Assembly. And this is a question that we, a respected colleague, have presented to the authors' representatives and said they have no answer. And I believe that they will have it until the public presentation of their opinions. What Violeta Tomić said, however, is totally unrelated.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor. I ask that we refrain from any such inappropriate indications of the discussions of others.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u64	I also sometimes feel like I have no connection, as Mr Horvath says, but I don't attack in that way, but it also says something about the integrity of an individual. This marriage is old, we can agree with it, it is 1995 and can have its shortcomings or not. The fact is that this law, which is now in force, some normal government could use it in such a way that it would not cause such great problems for people as we have seen in the last two years and under this coalition. But the real picture is quite different because we are not ruled by some normal government, because we are ruled by cacastruption, as it is called, by the true rule of the worst, and because of the actions that this rule of the worst has brought to our attention, we have come to this situation that no one else knows what measures apply, what certain measures serve, and so on. Therefore, today's debate on the novelty of the law on communicable diseases is a kind of ceasefire, since in these two years we have learned that governments can abuse laws that may be fully usable to some extent to cause some very serious and negative social consequences. I agree when Mr Horvat said that similar measures have been taken by most European countries. Yes, we have seen in these two years that some standardised measures have been developed through this pandemic, as they are probably based on the epidemiological profession and so on. But the key question is how we used them in Slovenia. One day, as Violeta had previously said, the minister of the interior could have been in this room without a mask, while in Prešeren’s market the food supplier was ingrained because he ate burek without a mask. One day, the President of the Republic and the Minister of Defence walked along the border in a group of more people - then the masks were also compulsory - without masks and at the same time government representatives paraded around without masks in closed spaces and so on. Not to mention all the other measures, from putting people in the congregation, curfews and so forth, as if the covid had official hours, when he was working and when he wasn't. Even now, we are faced with the fact that most restaurants close at 10 or 11 p.m., and still this logic persists. The problem is that the vast majority of these cases were not followed by the profession that advised on the measures. We closed schools first, while people could still go to shopping malls, essentially staying where the greatest risks to infection were. The Advisory Group has repeatedly said that schools should be closed last and other measures should be taken. So that this law, which is proposed by the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy and which I have estimated was based on some very concrete discussions with experts in epidemiology and law, is a good basis for us to start talking about how this situation that we have been living for the past two years would not happen again. The introduction of certain things, such as some professional councils, which will have essentially some serious word about what measures are being taken. The fact that you have a stepfather in the National Assembly, who in some way would give some legitimacy to the measures and also a guardian against any abuse of power measures, until the last instance, when it has to be confirmed by the National Assembly, is something that can give people at least some confidence. We could give them back some trust. We should have done this two years ago when this government took office. Of course, we all know she got into an epidemic, into a pandemic. Back then, it was time for dialogue, then it was time for communication with people. And that was a key mistake that that government made so that it couldn't talk to people. That's why we've come to the state we're in today. That's what I think the core of the problem we've been able to experience at this time. Okay, the Constitutional Court found that part of the law on infectious diseases is inconsistent with the Constitution. This is the time, this is the opportunity to fix it. I think this correction that came from civil society is appropriate. Let us make this effort to further discuss the details that have been exposed to this debate today. However, at this stage of the first reading, it is absolutely necessary, according to my assessment, to support this law, so that we can also get some more solid and serious bases for future epidemics if they come.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will also be given the floor by the representative of the proposaler, Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for all these opinions, of course on behalf of civil society. I think we've actually done a very good job. Why? Because we actually responded to what came from people. As has already been said today, civil society is activated at a time when it considers it necessary because it is the guardian of democracy. And apparently, at this point, she thought it was necessary. It is right that this law should continue the procedure because of all the efforts already made. I personally said that the law, as set out, seems really simple enough for him to follow. It specifies exactly what is allowed and what is not. And that's essential. He's restricting the government in advance. It already predetermines how the problem must be addressed, how it can start with the simplest measures and then scale them up if necessary. It is also essential that the profession is given sufficient force in adopting these measures, that the expert group is also composed in such a way as to balance all the profiles that must be in such an expert group so that this expert group can also be public, not only to government representatives, but also to the public, what it thinks is appropriate, what should be done and why. To say that when something does not seem appropriate to her, as we have had several cases in the past two years, the government has not taken this into account. I have essentially no doubts as to whether we are able to comply with such a protocol of action as is now laid down in these amendments to the law. I find that perfectly feasible. All implementation mechanisms already exist. I am absolutely in favour of hearing further opinions from both the legal and medical, epidemiological and other professions in order to hold a debate within the parliamentary groups as well. I don't see any problems if we're going to somehow unify ourselves in the fact that decision-making is still necessary to be transferred from the working body to the plenary. I don't think there should be any problems here. However, there will certainly be problems at least in our parliamentary group if we perceive the intent of some of the amendments to this law, which will go in a different direction than the objective itself, which will go away from what the Constitutional Court has said, which would possibly give the government more powers to define the way and take measures. However, we certainly do not support such corrections in our Group of Members. It is, however, a fact that, at this moment, because of two years of experience with what has been happening during the epidemic, it is by the way that this government has approached the measures, and in particular because of the way it has ignored both people and civil society, of course, this law now has some bad taste. Not only is it absolutely necessary because the Constitutional Court has said so, because the Constitutional Court has set a time limit for its corrections, but it also has to finally limit the authority's will. Maybe this is that moment or unfortunately this is the moment that this government has adopted this bill, which has been written down, I am sure, with the best intentions, written perhaps even more professionally than it could have been written here in individual parliamentary groups. I regret this, of course, because we then get to it when we read it, in assessing its contents only from the point of view of these poor two-year experiences that we have. Once again, I would like to thank the Legal Network for the Protection of Democracy for investing all its knowledge and all its efforts in this text of the law. I'm sure if anything were right in this world, then this law should go through first reading. I look forward to voting tomorrow. I am also looking forward to a possible public presentation of opinions, where we will further address some of the dilemmas, answer questions, hear not only legal ones, but also epidemiological and medical experts, what they think and then somehow come up with, I hope, common solutions. So once again, this is not the law of unrelated Members, this is the law of civil society, which I thank her for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 4 February, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on environmental protection. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubovic requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Andre Visiak, Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u68	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! In front of you is the most important law on the environment, the law on environmental protection, which could also be called the environmental constitution. The fundamental objective and ambition of this law is to safeguard the environment in a consistent manner, not in the state we have, but also to introduce certain new, latest standards of environmental protection resulting from a number of international recommendations, both the BAT guidelines and the directives. It is therefore ambition to maintain the condition, to upgrade environmental protection and to solve the accumulated problems we have, in particular in some areas in the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time, the basic basis for preparation was the elimination of the non-compliance of the current law with the law of the European Union. Let me mention that we have several pre-trial proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia in place to address some of the inconsistencies that the European Commission has seen in Slovenia for many years. This is said to have nothing to do with this government. We also have the European Commission's warnings. So, honourable Members, I ask you to understand also that this law must be adopted within this mandate, because any postponement can also mean penalties for Slovenia, because we will be in breach and can also receive sanctions from the European authorities. Another important starting point is to harmonise Slovenian law with the legal order or with European Union directives. In particular, this applies to the manufacturer’s extended liability relating to the waste part. The manufacturer's extended liability, which is consistently transferred to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, means that all who place products on the market, so-called producers, must take care of the entire life cycle of this product together with the packaging of this product both organisationally and financially. It is no longer permissible to place the burden of waste management on consumers or countries. This is very important and I think that the basic starting point, which will also force manufacturers or those who place products on the market to be rational when we talk about using as many reusable materials as possible, is recyclable, is that as little waste as possible is found on landfills or in thermal treatment. The problem of the circular economy is also very important. This law introduces the possibility of waste moving into a product in accordance with the strict legal order of the European Union and the strict order to protect the environment. We determine the conditions and criteria for how to stop waste status and how one or more wastes in combination can become products. We do this with the aim of encouraging the circular economy, in short, that as few wastes as possible will end up in landfills or in incinerators and that as many wastes will be reused or be of return value. Then, through law, we are significantly renewing and working more effectively on the issue of environmental permits. The law also allows for the integration of procedures, the granting of environmental permits through the environmental consent procedure. We are therefore going into one process and not anymore to chain a few procedures, which will make procedures more effective in compliance with strict environmental standards. It is also important to regulate the waste disposal situation and to regulate the procedures for identifying the occurrence of environmental damage and, of course, to restore and regulate the situation of the public concerned in environmental procedures. Let me stress that we are here in line with non-governmental organisations and we are introducing relatively high standards for public participation in environmental procedures. We are also renewing provisions relating to inspection. It is important for you to upgrade the existing law with the aim of protecting the environment and while respecting everyone who wants to intervene in space to develop an economic activity to do so with little bureaucratic burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Environmental Protection Act, like its predecessors, preserves the principle of horizontality, meaning that the law deals more or less intensively with all parts of the environment, water, nature conservation and all instrumental approaches to environmental protection, environmental impact assessment planning and so on. Many issues are regulated only in a framework and provide a basis for their more detailed regulation at the sub-legislative level, and in particular at the regulatory level. The fundamental principles remain almost the same as in the existing law and the principle of the circular economy is being established. This is a way of organising production and consumption based on the sharing, reuse, repair, renovation and recycling of existing materials and products as long as possible. Furthermore, the proposal sets out the waste management hierarchy, which provides a basis for the adoption of measures supporting waste recycling before other treatment processes, such as incineration and disposal at landfills, the adoption of measures to separate certain types of waste and the establishment of such a priority order of treatment in order to achieve the best possible integrity for the environment. The draft law introduces the polluter pays principles and the producer's extended liability, which is a set of prescribed measures to ensure that, during the waste phase within the product life cycle, producers of certain products bear financial and organisational responsibility for the management of waste from products. In order to ensure the environmentally sound management of all wastes from products, it is clear that all producers of the same products are jointly responsible for collecting and processing all wastes from these products originating in the Republic of Slovenia. Only one organisation shall jointly fulfil the obligations for producers of the same products subject to the extended liability of the manufacturer. This should ensure that the system is more efficient, the producer's extended responsibility, the system's increased cost-effectiveness and the simplification of the system for manufacturers. The organisation is a legal person established in the Republic of Slovenia in order to carry out joint compliance as a non-profit activity for producers of the same products covered by the producer's extended liability. The organisation shall establish and own business shares only by producers of certain identical products subject to the extended liability of the manufacturer, which together place on the market at least 51 per cent of the total quantity of these products, and the ownership share of the individual producer in the organisation shall not exceed 25 per cent. However, the owner of the organisation shall not be a person who carries out the management of waste from products subject to joint compliance. Furthermore, the proposal for a law retains the concept of regulation in the field of environmental quality standards and environmental recovery due to diffuse sources of pollution. Environmental quality standards are accepted by the government and the minister classifys individual areas as classes and levels of pollution. However, it is a new provision that the congregation may also do so if the government provides for this in a law that also lays down rules for classification. The area of environmental restrictions, which is intended in particular for the regulation of restrictions on planning and future interference in space or environment, is subject to new regulation. The draft law lists, for example, areas where the government can implement specific regimes. The Government has also been empowered to provide for a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts or the conditions to be met prior to this intervention for certain categories of these areas. An important novelty is also the fact that the role and position of the public concerned, the party’s participation in the administrative procedure and the eligibility of the action in the administrative dispute are otherwise regulated. In the administrative procedure, the authorisation may, even though they may make their comments and views, non-governmental organisations in the public interest and the civil initiative shall not have the position of a party, but shall be entitled to lodge an action against the environmental agreement issued. The law also provides the basis for government regulation to prescribe environmental pollution benefits designed to internalise the costs of pollution incurred by society as a whole. However, the provisions relating to simplification or the acceleration of the award of incentives to the EcoFund constitute a major novelty. To this end, the law shall derogate from the general administrative procedure, which shall otherwise apply mutatis mutandis, in respect of the application, the service of the decision and the right of access to data. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia supports the proposal of the Law on Environmental Protection in particular in the field of municipal waste management. They say that support for the proposal for a law on environmental protection stems from expert discussions and conclusions adopted and actions taken at their expert consultations. The Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia says that waste management in the Proposal for an Environmental Protection Act is undoubtedly a good basis for building further solutions. The first step will be by adopting this law, and the main part will still be ahead of us; both for governmental and non-governmental organisations, the economy, municipal public services, and for us individuals who will have to change their ways. Today we're building an environmental future for a better tomorrow. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats we will definitely support the Environmental Protection Act at first reading. Above all, it seems important that waste recovery finally becomes part of the national circular economy, taking into account industrial symbiosis. It is necessary to amend legislation in order to allow for the reprocessing or reuse of processed waste, particularly in construction and industry. Finally, the new law will give more attention to new technologies for two-stage waste sorting and the introduction of digitisation in this area. We must protect and preserve the environment for the younger generations and the future, respectful treatment of our environment, fertile land, drinking water and animal life, and diversity of species is our goal. Protecting the environment, animals, species and resources is our common task that each individual must undertake. Let us protect the living space and preserve it for our offspring. It's our shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will move the position of the Alenka Bratušek Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u72	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The protection of the environment and nature, the sustainable use of resources, the promotion of the development of the circular economy and, last but not least, the protection of human health and the health of still unborn children are the values we advocate and advocate for in the SAB. Consumerism is being burdened by a subordinate society and a modern way of life, especially by waste, which is not only one of the most pressing problems of recent decades, but can also be assessed as problems that may have the most far-reaching consequences and even the most fatal consequences in the event of inadequate solutions. We are therefore proactive in the SAB party, as we have always been in our efforts to benefit people and the environment. Last year, on our initiative, the right to clean drinking water was enshrined in the Constitution, and last year, on our proposal in the National Assembly, a law was adopted restricting the placing on the market of the most used disposable plastic products, as a rule, of short-term use. We will see its effects this year. Plastics, even plastic products, disposable products, waste packaging of all kinds, waste electrical and electronic equipment and so on into infinity. In addition, in Slovenia a special chapter is also represented by the tomb candles. For all of this, it is necessary to focus on the recovery of waste that is generated and that should be properly addressed in accordance with the hierarchy, either by preparing them for reuse or by recycling or energy recovery. We also believe that efforts should be made to ensure that waste becomes as much as possible the input material of individual sectors; only removal and removal should be the last option. In the SAB Group, we assess that the proposal for a law that has been actively drafted since the previous government contains good guidelines to prevent and manage waste. Indeed, the European Union is ordering us to change, because we need to transpose some European directives. To an even greater extent, such action imposes upon us a moral obligation that we have from all generations that come after us, which we owe them as little as possible a limited and secure environment. The most important changes made by law are certainly linked to the manufacturer's extended liability system, which we have known in Slovenia for 15 years. At that time, it proved to be ineffective and weak, inter alia, because producers who placed less than 15 tonnes of packaging on the market were not included in the producers' records and did not contribute their financial share to its subsequent production. Because of its incompleteness and shortcomings, households that separated waste, as well as the work of municipal companies that separated them, went to no avail. In the next phase, when they should be taken over and treated, the waste remained in the warehouses of these companies. Waste recovery costs put on the market by producers producing less than 15 tonnes have never been paid. On the one hand, the potential for recycling declined in warehouses, while on the other side the potential for environmental, fire and sanitation risk increased. Thus, we have witnessed the burning of the raw materials several times and remember only more fires in Maribor. In response to the proposed changes, various stakeholders pointed out that waste management organisations rejected their takeover due to capital interest. These companies were also exposed to the abuse of the waste management system. It is not possible to generalize these findings on all societies. At present, six of them are active in Slovenia, and the situation on the ground is clearly showing that something is seriously wrong. For municipal companies, enormous amounts of waste are accumulated and infamous records are broken from month to month. The numbers are clear and more than worrying. Take, for example, only the period from January to the end of October in 2021. During that period, 9 thousand 150 tonnes of waste-mixed packaging remained unattended in municipal companies – only until the end of October! And we know what the problems and the deterioration of the condition every year will bring about the month of November when waste candles are bought all over the country. Let's stay with the numbers. Therefore, the country has already had to cut off intervention laws several times in the field of waste municipal packaging and has already paid more than 12 million euros for the collection of packed packaging. Clearly, then, change in the system is necessary and it is right to tighten things. Environmental requirements are being stepped up and legislation must follow. In the SAB we therefore support the Ministry's intentions and the introduction of the new system. According to it, only one company that will have to be non-profit will take care of the individual mass flow of waste. This should bring clear commitments and commitments and prevent speculation and the avoidance of individual organisations that have not now taken over waste. Despite our socio-liberal orientations and our advocacy of a free economic initiative, we agree with the Minister, who provides for non-profit activities as a condition for these organisations. We are convinced that all issues related to waste management, competitiveness and profit creation must be taken away from environmental concerns and environmental responsibilities. We also share the views that this will strengthen the interests of companies associated with environmental objectives and encourage them to use those materials and raw materials that will be least burdensome for the environment while at the same time making financial use of these materials worthwhile. As a welcome provision which, on the one hand, constitutes motivation, on the other hand, increases the commitment of these undertakings to fulfil their obligations, we also assess the provision under which it is envisaged that waste collectors and processors must be owners of the real estate and movables they need to carry out these activities. In the event of misconduct, the State will be able to intervene in their assets. In many ways, we disagree with the current government and the Minister for the Environment, but the area of waste and waste packaging is not one of these. Our agreement was already expressed when the SAB law on the prohibition of placing on the market of plastic products was adopted. We hope that we will also be able to maintain agreement on the appropriateness of the Environmental Protection Act until the end of the legislative process. Some solutions, therefore, seem to us to be too ambitious. For example, one is a provision linked to a long-term climate strategy. Given the rapidly changing trends, we believe that the period in which it is necessary to review and/or amend or amend should be reduced. For 10 years to review such a key document, it seems to us very much, especially in the light of the need to achieve ambitious climate objectives by 2030. However, its revision only after 2032 can be a guide for 2040 or 2050. In this light, I underline the ambitious objectives of the European Commission related to the establishment of a circular economy that is recognised as a key element for achieving climate objectives and climate neutrality by 2050. While the bill introduces the circular economy principle, it is not dealt with in more detail, although we know that by 2030 we will need binding targets for the use of material and its environmental footprint throughout all life stages and cycles of use. We are therefore aware that the European Commission has not yet given all the guidelines, but that 80 per cent of the total environmental footprint of the product is to be determined in the planning phase and that the consumption of inputs is expected to double over the next decades and the amount of waste generated by 70 per cent by 2050, then this problem, which is actually a development opportunity, should not be overlooked. We must be aware that as much as 50 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions are related to the production and processing of raw materials. I would also like to respond to the warnings of NGOs that are problematic and criticising the use of climate funds to cover indirect costs for some energy-intensive companies. On the SAB side, we stress that only an innovative and competitive economy will enable a strong social state and higher pensions. We therefore believe that the use of climate funds in the restructuring of the economy is necessary and justified. In doing so, we have repeatedly stressed in the SAB party that European funds should also be used for these purposes. We have repeatedly stressed that in neighbouring Austria, for example, environmental investments have been made in the economy through European funds. For example, replace outdated environmentally burdensome production in factories with modern ones and thus ensure competitive jobs with high added value and build sewerage with them. We therefore expect sector-specific challenges to be addressed, product guidelines to be drawn up, reused, recycling and upgrading. All of us must aim to make economic growth independent of the use of new raw materials and ultimately become carbon neutral. Given the complexity of the topic addressed by the law, we look forward to examining the proposal on the Home Working Committee, where it will continue to be amended. Although the Ministry of the Environment did not create the best reputation in this mandate, the disputed article, which led us to last vote in the referendum, did not come before the Law on Water in the National Assembly. In view of the principled support we give to the law at this stage, we really want the amendments to contribute only to its improvement. One such example, for example, is a supplement that will allow the introduction of a bailout system for cans and bottles. In the client’s SAB, not only are we extremely fond of him, but we believe he is a necessity. In the case of the drinking packaging system, especially in the case of plastic packaging, we must take steps to achieve the requirements and guidelines of the European Union and also in the light of Slovenia's environmental objectives. By 2025, for example, we need to collect 77 percent separately and 90 percent by 2029. The way to do this is the bail system and the countries that have it are now collecting between 85 and 95 percent of plastic. The bill, like its predecessor, the Environmental Protection Act, already foresees the possibility of setting up such a system. The government makes it possible to prescribe bails and other forms of bail. But that's not enough. In the SAB party, we are convinced that the law relating to the depository system for cans and bottles should contain a binding provision and not only allow for the possibility of implementation. That is why we have already drafted an amendment that will oblige the government to issue the regulation necessary for the implementation of the bailout system. We'll file it as soon as technically possible. In the SAB Group, we will support the law and vote that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Environmental Protection Act entered into force in 2004. Since then, the text has been subject to 10 direct amendments and additions and several acts of other laws, which have introduced a number of amendments. In view of the scope of the provisions that have been amended or amended by the original law, either because matter is raised to the legal level or because it is re-ordered, the Government has prepared a proposal for a new text. The provisions in Slovenia also partially transpose the requirements of the Directives of the European Union. The text is thus on our table today and has received general debate. Since the law is extensive and complex, the legislative process will certainly also be accompanied by additions and improvements, and of course by criticism. Measures in the field of waste are among the most important solutions provided by law. In this area, it regulates the situation and introduces the producer's extended liability. In the past, we have witnessed several times the trend of accumulation of municipal waste packaging in municipal warehouses. Last year, more than 8 thousand tonnes remained in storage and a month later, almost 10,000 tonnes of unacquired mixed municipal waste packaging, which means sanitary, health and environmental risk. Over the last two years, the country has paid more than 12 million euros for this. Problems also arise with unrestrained waste grave candles. It is therefore clear that we are obliged to establish legislation to ensure the reduction of waste produced and to establish an efficient, transparent and cost-effective waste management system. For this purpose, the CSO-2 provides for only one non-profit organisation for each mass flow of waste, on behalf of producers, to seek out the most favourable tenderers. Although such a system also has a number of criticisms and fears of monopoly traps. In addition to introducing the producer's extended responsibility, which is the central purpose of this law, it also brings a number of other innovations. It also introduces classes and rates for individual parts of the environment, which will serve as a basis for appropriate prohibitions, restrictions, rules of conduct or recommendations with a view to maintaining and improving the state of the environment. Furthermore, the law provides for action in the event of an environmental accident, liability in the event of bankruptcy, rules on decommissioning, introduces common provisions on the issue of an environmental permit, renews provisions on the issue of an environmental permit for industrial emissions installations and regulates the disposal of waste landfills. It is also welcome to simplify the Eco-Fund procedures to facilitate the administrative burden of both the Fund and the beneficiaries of these funds. Finally, the law reinforces the provisions on inspection and natural security control, which also has a number of financial implications. In the Desus Group, we believe that the initiative put forward to establish a bail-out system for the packaging of drinks makes sense. This system, already used by several other countries, means a cheaper, more efficient and transparent waste packaging collection system, which contributes to less littering and allows more reuse and quality recycling. By doing so, they would offer an economic incentive to return empty packaging to the store and not to fill waste collectors with it. We therefore support efforts to introduce the basis for establishing this system, which already exists in glass packaging, into the new law. In the Desus Group, we welcome efforts to improve environmental legislation and will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u76	In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are aware that the proposed law on environmental protection as a new law brings certain novelties and changes. In doing so, it is important to highlight in particular the area of waste, the involvement of the public concerned and the position of the party in the process of issuing environmental consent and environmental authorisation, the status of the non-governmental organisation in the public interest and could also be listed. However, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that this meeting of the National Assembly has concluded the legislative procedure for the proposed law on the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley. His journey ended with his mother's working body, as the law was opposed by both the Government and Members and Members of the ruling coalition. The government argued that it is aware of the problems, and considers that it is necessary to systematically approach this issue in the whole of Slovenia, i.e. in the Celje Valley area. Therefore, that a system-wide regulation of the area of treatment is necessary, since, following the logic of us, the proponents should adopt specific laws for each further case of the rehabilitation of a particular polluted area. This argument was also summed up by government Members and Members in turn, because, of course, other reasons for the opposition could not be found and could not be found. Let me quote one of these Members: "We are of the opinion that the necessary systemic legal basis for the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley can reasonably be included in the Proposal for an Environmental Protection Act-2, which we know starts the parliamentary procedure on Thursday. Therefore, the adoption of such a law does not seem to make sense to us.” End of quote. Your Honor! The Ministry of Environment and Space could, on the basis of the law in force, have long ago declared the area of the City Municipality of Celje contaminated, and could also adopt an appropriate order and measure for the rehabilitation or appropriate decision for the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley and all other contaminated areas in Slovenia. To date, however, you have referred to the fact that the current legal basis is insufficient and that the Ministry plans to include a specific chapter on the rehabilitation of contaminated areas in the past, which will systematically address a number of issues, in particular the responsibility for pollution, the process of determining the polluted area, the priority order of remediation, its implementation and the systemic financial resources. You also referred to the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme 2020 to 2030, which also contains a chapter on the rehabilitation in the past of over-polluted areas, which shows that other areas have been contaminated in the Republic of Slovenia in the past, so that the system regime of the area under consideration is necessary. The new law on environmental protection is here, but on a new legal basis, or on a specific chapter on rehabilitation in the past of over-polluted areas, it does not listen to the spirit or to the spirit. Despite the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, former Justice Minister Dr Senko Plitčanič, had already concluded a contract worth €19 000 500 in November for legal support regarding the preparation of environmental legislation. In March 2021 another new legal support contract was signed in connection with the preparation of this same legislation worth €99 000 750. Then the annexes were added. The final contract value was EUR 130 000 95. The new contract with the same Contracting Party was also concluded in November 2021, also for legal support in coordinating the proposal of the Environmental Protection Act-2 and its adoption in the legislative process and in the preparation of sub-legislative acts worth EUR 219,000 600. The Ministry of Environment and Space has therefore spent over EUR 360 000 on preparing what we have on the table today. And as it all appears, this external contractor, despite the enormous amount for the preparation of the system law, has completely ignored the long-standing promises of the Ministry and the long-standing expectations of people for the systematic management of over-polluted areas. And Celje. I don't suppose the preparation of this chapter has even been commissioned. In the parliamentary group, we cannot agree to such transfer of the ruling coalition and the written attitude of the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, so we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkoršek will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u78	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. The esteemed Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak with co-workers, colleagues and all those accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly! The Environmental Protection Act, the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill. The Environmental Protection Act ZVO-1 entered into force in May 2004. Since its entry into force, 10 direct amendments and additions have been made, a number of interventions and other laws that have introduced a number of amendments to the law, the whole sub-chapters, for example on environmental damage. ZVO-2 as a new law brings certain novelties and changes. It pays much more attention to individual areas than to the CSO-1, for example waste measures. Among the content regulated by the CCW-2 in a new or otherwise manner are: waste measures, classes and rates for specific parts of the environment, areas of environmental limitations, environmental disaster response, liability in the event of bankruptcy, decommissioning, the introduction of common provisions and the issuance of environmental protection permits, the participation of interested public and the acquisition of the position of a party in the environmental consent and environmental authorisation process and in the decision-making process for environmental damage, the renewal of provisions in the issue of an environmental protection permit for industrial emissions installations, the removal of a waste disposal site, the simplification of eco-fund procedures, non-governmental organisations in the public interest, economic environmental protection services, training and strengthening of provisions and inspection of nature conservation controls. The objectives, principles, main solutions to the proposal of the law: prevention and reduction of environmental burdens, conservation and improvement of environmental quality, sustainable use of natural resources, reduction of energy use and increased use of renewable energy sources, elimination of environmental burdens, improvement of damaged natural balance and re-establishment of its regenerative capabilities, increase the material efficiency of production and consumption, and abandon and replace the use of hazardous substances. In order to achieve the objectives of the previous paragraph, it shall be promoted in the production and consumption that contributes to reducing environmental burdens, achieving renewable growth and fostering the transition to the circular economy, promoting the development and use of technologies that prevent, eliminate or reduce environmental burdens and pay for pollution and the use of natural resources. The requirement for the management of waste without endangering human health and the environment, without risk to water, air, soil, plants and animals, without causing noise or smell disturbances without affecting the landscape or places of special importance. The principles of the polluter’s wages and responsibilities are also introduced. The principle of the circular economy is established as a new one; otherwise, the provisions of certain principles of improvement or improvement are upgraded. The new law also introduces the solutions that were necessary for the purposes of warnings and the pre-trial proceedings initiated by the European Commission. These suggest that the ZVO-2 should be adopted as soon as possible. This raises some content to the legal level or gives the law a clearer basis for its sub-legislative regulation. Honourable Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With this law, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are building a better future for Slovenia, for all those who live in the Republic of Slovenia today, especially for our children, and especially for those who are still born. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also convinced that today we are changing this law, and tomorrow we will have to change too. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak, in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, all 26 votes are granted for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Paulič will present the position of Mr Marjan Šarc's delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u80	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! “Health and a healthy environment are conditions for social, economic and general progress. We must ensure a healthy living environment for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of the part of the countries they live in, and regardless of which social group they belong to. We must promote sustainability and environmentally friendly development, which, while ensuring social well-being, is based on the prudent, cost-effective and sustainable use of limited natural resources. At the same time, we must ensure that nature and cultural identity are preserved, and we must put in place measures in all areas of life to address environmental change as quickly and as successfully as possible. One of the key challenges is the adoption of a comprehensive policy to reduce and manage waste." What I have just read is only part of the LMŠ programme on environmental policy. In LMŠ, we are convinced that environmental concerns are one of the areas where we need to overcome political divisions and find general social consensus. Experience has taught us that the laws proposed by this minister need to be read with special care. In the past, the Minister of Environment and Space has demonstrated several times that his work has not always been in the public interest. Remember only the proposed harmful changes to the Water Act or changes to the Construction Law and the changed conditions for the legalisation of black buildings. Shortly after the appointment, the Minister dissolved his service for the environment and space system, which acted as the Ministry's legal service, and then prepared amendments to the legislation, including the Environmental Protection Act that we now have on the table, entrusted the external contractors. This clearly violates the Resolution on Regulatory Activities adopted by the National Assembly and imposing legislative proposals on ministries. This raises doubts about impartiality and the pursuit of public interest in legislative changes. We have therefore proposed a general debate in the LMŠ on the proposal for a law. The fact is that the law from public hearing to investing in parliamentary procedure has changed substantively and today's broad debate will help make the professional public aware of the new content. In the LMŠ, we hope that the professional stakeholders will provide us with any comments and opinions on the last legal text for consideration on the parental committee, because this is the only way we will be able to get the best solutions, and, finally, there are people who know more than we do politicians. One of the key areas of the new law is waste management. That the system needs to be updated is also evident from the amount of uncontained waste packaging that appeared against last year and this year. According to some data, waste packaging is expected to be uncontained for up to 8 thousand tonnes. The proposal for a law on environmental protection brings some good solutions in the work governing the so-called extended liability of the manufacturer or the conduct of the European Union's applicable principle: the polluter pays. The person responsible for the manufacture of the packaging must also be responsible for the pollution it brings. The essential difference between the current procedures for taking over and processing and the processing of waste and between the procedures proposed after the new is the obligation to establish an organisation set up by producers of products subject to extended liability. Manufacturers shall conclude a contract under the current arrangements for the acquisition and treatment of such waste with one of the six DROE companies, according to the Association for the Management of Waste Packaging. The proposed law places this power on a non-profit organisation which would have the sole competence to choose the contractor both for the acquisition of municipal and non-communal waste packaging. Under the responsibility of the organisation, the management of waste packaging, the choice of the operator, the management of the entire cash flow and the exercise of control would be. The organisation would therefore be the regulator, system operator, supervisor, contractor and system operator. The practice of European countries with regard to waste packaging management is different. Some countries have a single company system for the management of waste packaging and some systems for several such companies. Each system has its own advantages and weaknesses and a unique response here, but in particular it is necessary to take account of the country's specificity when deciding. Our efforts to regulate the management of waste packaging should not stop only with the solutions offered by the law. On 1 January 2021, we introduced a renewed system of own resources in the European Union, which also consists of national contributions to unrecycled waste plastic packaging. In line with EU objectives, Member States will have to collect 90 per cent of bottles separately by 2029 and 2030. Bottles placed on the market will have to contain 30 percent of recycled plastic and 70 percent of waste and 55 percent of plastic packaging will have to be recycled. This, in addition to the environmental problem, will also represent a financial burden. One kilogram of uncycled waste plastic packaging will cost us 0.8 euros. Thus, Slovenia will pay more than €10 million for its 2021 waste packaging and this year more than €11 million. The new European objectives are, according to experience from some Member States, the easiest, if not the only, to achieve by introducing a bailout system. The system has already been introduced in 11 European countries and 14 countries have introduced it and a public debate is open in 6 countries. The countries with the bailout system achieve a very high share of the collected packaging – Lithuania and Finland 92 per cent, Estonia 87 per cent, among all countries that have already implemented the bailout system, and there is no country below 85 per cent of the collected packaging. What if I give you some more information? By recycling the can, up to 95 percent of the energy is saved. More energy and emissions are maintained by repackaging. The return bottle produces 70 per cent less CO2 emissions than the new bottle, 57 per cent less emissions than the new can and 85 per cent less emissions than the single-use bottle. In the LMŠ, we believe that in Slovenia we urgently need to develop modern practices in the processing and recycling of waste, with which we will not only save for lower fees to the European Union, but we will be able to create new products from waste and thus increase added value. We expect two from today's debate in the LMŠ: a more detailed explanation of some legislative proposals by the proposer and, above all, any comments and additional proposals by the professional and interested public with regard to the debates and explanations heard today. As we say, the environment is the responsibility of all of us, and it is our duty to find an optimal solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Members and Members of Parliament will hold a general debate today on the proposal for a law on environmental protection. At first glance, we see that it is not only minor changes or additions, but at the Ministry they have prepared a completely new, well-amended and complete law. As the proponents say, the text of the Environmental Protection Act adopted in 2004 has received at least ten direct amendments and supplements to date. The introductory words stated that the text of the new law had been drafted because of the scope of the provisions which were new or amended in relation to the PSO-1 and that the second reason was partial amendments and additions which had made a good change in the legal text. The new bill retains the so-called principle of horizontality, which means that the law still deals intensively with all segments and parts of the environment, from nature to air monitoring and the law also preserves and strengthens the instrumental approach to environmental protection. Lawmakers say that the new text also brings certain changes and novelties. According to them, the proposed text places much more emphasis on certain areas than the Environmental Protection Act-1, in particular in the field of waste. The written solutions offered by the marriage proposal are extensive and detailed, as can be seen from the thickness and scope of the law. The main objectives, however, are to focus on sustainable development, environmental protection and the approach and strengthening of the circular economy. In the SD Group of Members, we examined the marriage proposal and discussed the content. In the proposed text, we do not see content at issue that we would object to before we discuss it, so we welcome today's broader debate on the law and the possible shortcomings. The Law on the Protection of the Environment is a fundamental law for the protection and preservation of nature, which could also be referred to as the Constitution for the protection and preservation of nature, and this is why it is so important that the law is good, quality and without questionable and questionable content. As has already been said, in the SD Group we do not oppose the law, but we welcome the broader debate on the content itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! Environmental protection is the basis for sustainable development of society. Its main purpose is to preserve biodiversity and long-term conditions for human health, well-being and quality of life. On capitalism, a system that has an unbridled need for growth everywhere and at any cost today poses an existential threat to both human and plant species, is a careful monitoring of environmental change; especially at a time when we are on the brink of climate failure. That is why we have closely followed the proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act in Levica; the law that we are considering today. The first drafts of this law were truly disturbing. According to the model of anti-Korona laws, environmental protection organisations were prevented from operating in the field of environmental protection, the law was written specifically in favour of capital, even so far as the definitions allowed nature to be completely omitted. After very long public consultations, debates and interdepartmental coordination, almost a four-party law came into the National Assembly, which in the first reading really seems to be significantly better than what was originally given to public hearing, and which in fact brings quite a few improvements in terms of the current situation. The new regulation of the producer's extended liability is certainly to be highlighted here in the first place. We will have a new waste stream for each substance, for example waste packaging, a single non-profit company that will manage all sorts of things, sell materials on the recycling market, incineration, waste disposal and so on. This is a major step forward compared to the current system in which municipal companies waste packaging and other waste are generally given to private companies for waste management free of charge. Packaging companies, if we limit ourselves to this material flow alone, then for the management of these wastes they get money from the packaging they collect and then trade in these wastes generate profits and household waste collection and removal costs were paid by households. The current system has encouraged us to have several private profit-driven companies competing with each other and thus lowering our packaging for waste packaging today. As a result, the entire system has become so weak that it can be distracted by an unforeseen event itself. This happened a few years ago when China decided that there would no longer be a dump for the centre of world capitalism and prohibited the importation of waste into its territory. Private packaging companies no longer wanted to remove the packaging from the collection centres, because on the one hand they were not obliged to do so, because the packaging was more than they were obliged to carry, and on the other hand because it was no longer paid for. Profit was more important than fire safety at assembly centres and in the surrounding area and more important than public health. The new system of extended producer responsibility introduces a more transparent and non-profit way of dealing with waste, and non-profit companies will have to cover infrastructure costs and separate collection of household waste. In Levica we welcome this new solution. A new chapter on climate change should be highlighted among the positive changes contained in the proposal for a new chapter on climate change, which introduces from independent experts a set-up of the Climate Council to monitor the implementation of the climate strategy and propose measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change, which the Government will have to address and identify in writing to them. A positive change is that, according to the new ones, the municipalities will also be able to determine areas of the environment or areas that are under environmental burden. Environmental quality standards for individual pollutants shall be laid down in more detail in relation to the parts of the environment in which they are located, areas of environmental limitations, possibilities for decommissioning and limitation of property rights are introduced, if necessary to address excessive environmental burdens and so on. Despite many positive improvements, the law also has some shortcomings. The first is that the law does not introduce a bail-out system for liquor packages. The introduction of a bailout system for all bottles, bottles and cans in which the drink is sold has already been proposed in Levica in the previous term, but we have encountered deaf ears in the coalition of SMC, Desus and SD clients. This is about the return and re-use of packaging, as has already been the case in various forms in several European countries: Lithuania, Croatia, Germany, Sweden, Finland and so on. Austria has recently introduced the legal basis for the introduction of the bail system. This estimated that only a separate collection system, the system we currently have in place in Slovenia, could achieve the EU target of 90 per cent of bottle waste. The fact is, even in Slovenia, those goals cannot be achieved with the system we have. And the fact is that we are among the worst countries in Europe in collecting waste bottles because we do not have a bailout system. The new proposal for a law on environmental protection is a real opportunity for us to introduce such a system, and we are preparing amendments in Levica to try to complement the law in this regard in further consideration. The following is a special protection for the environment and residents from co-incineration. Here, of course, we are talking about the largest Slovenian co-incinerator Cementarna Anhovo. This can only be because it is not a incinerator, but a co-incineration plant, the environment by incineration waste burdens inappropriately more than, for example, a waste incinerator in Celje. Of course, this is also known in the health of the surrounding population and residents. Last year we proposed the adoption of a special law on the equalisation of emissions of harmful substances into the air in incineration plants and co-incineration plants, and laid down stricter conditions for monitoring emissions of substances in the air to ensure the constitutional right to a healthy living environment for the population of Anhovega and this part of the Soča Valley. Unfortunately, despite the very positive changes brought by the new Environmental Protection Act, this law does not bring anything new to one of the most environmentally burdened parts of Slovenia. In this regard, we will also table appropriate amendments in the future in Levica. In addition to things that are good in the law and besides things that are missing, there are some provisions that need to be mentioned in the end that are directly unacceptable. The first such provision is to pay the indirect costs they have with emissions trading and, on top of that, with respect to the climate fund, to those covered by the ETS scheme, that is to say, the European Emissions Trading Scheme. The Climate Fund aims to co-finance mitigation and adaptation measures to the effects of climate change. We have here one of the largest greenhouse gas pollutants, whose concentration in the atmosphere continues to rise steadily despite all the objectives, declarations and resolutions adopted, and continues to contribute to climate damage at the planetary level. Instead of simply limiting production in line with environmental constraints and social needs, the emissions market has been created and all these installations within the EU are now trading these emission vouchers, the majority of which are still receiving allocated free of charge and less than half of them are actually sold at auctions. The high market price of coupons is expected to encourage these plants to invest in energy and material efficiency and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions, thus requiring fewer emission vouchers for their operation. However, the proposal, as set out in the law that we are considering today, is essentially granting these establishments a subsidy that reduces their motivation to reduce emissions. Thus, these devices will emit more greenhouse gases, and environmental damage will only burden taxpayers and future generations. This is particularly problematic because the same beneficiaries are already receiving other benefits, which also reduce their motivation for action, which are eligible for work on free emission vouchers, are exempt from payment of part of the contribution to provide support for renewable resources and are exempt from excise duty. Such a provision is totally controversial and we will propose an amendment to delete it in the future in Levica. However, the following harmful provision, which must also be highlighted, relates to the cessation of waste status. If a product comes from waste, the State must, in any event, inform the European Commission without exception. This is how the Commission regulates the internal market. When some waste changes its status, it becomes a product on the market. The proposed regulation inadmissibly revives cases where the Government should inform the European Commission of the criteria for the cessation of waste status and is also contrary to the requirements of the European Waste Directive. In fact, it means legalisation of disputed practices that have already been or have occurred in Slovenia and have, of course, been painted green as a form of circular economy, with only externalising the costs of waste disposal to the whole society in the form of polluted environment and human health. For example, bricks from waste ash containing high concentrations of toxic substances were made. Instead of extremely dangerous and toxic waste, we obtained construction materials that filled the caves of sandstones, mines, and even karst caves. At least two locations of such work are known; in Moravča and in Trbovje, where analyses have shown excessive soil and water pollution. This is another disputed provision which will need to be corrected in future treatment with the amendment. The Law on Environmental Protection is not really as bad as we feared on the basis of the first drafts that went to public hearing. It has quite a few positive solutions that improve environmental protection. There are some shortcomings that can be complemented, but we have already discovered something at first reading, as it were said, of disputed provisions, which cannot be addressed by amendments in future cases. It is precisely because of these last ones in the Left Group at first reading, until we see to what extent the law would be supplemented and amended by amendments, that we will not support the new proposal of the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I inform you that the current order of the following five Members and Members of Parliament who have been invited to the debate is reflected on the screens in the Chamber. However, the full line of reported debaters is shown on the website of the National Assembly under the Poimen List of Discussants. The order of the panellists declared may change during the course of the debate. I give the floor first to the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. So, before we go to the debate of Members and Members, I would like to respond to some of the dilemmas raised in the views of the groups of Members, because I believe that this is necessary, probably because of further discussion or debate. Of course, I am pleased that most of the members of the Group see the good aspects of this proposal in the solutions that we have really coordinated for a long time. In fact, on the basis of the draft prepared for public consultation, we then carried out a series of coordinations with both NGOs that wanted these coordinations, as well as representatives of the economy and others. One serious observation by the Member was that the preparation was contrary to the Resolution on Regulatory Activities or that we hired external experts to prepare this law or to assist. On the contrary! It is the resolution on normative activities that recommends that legislative proposals also be drawn up with the legal assistance of external experts. Many external experts took part in this, as it is a relatively complex issue where the profession is involved, the law of European law and the obvious ministry, despite efforts in the past, have not been in favour of these tasks, otherwise they would not have had more than 20 reminders and pre-trial proceedings before European authorities. It was because we wanted to make the best possible proposal that we hired a wider circle of other experts to help do so. It was mentioned by the MPs that we had spent 300,000 euros on this. Look, 300 thousand euros is just a few percent of the money we spent last year cleaning the warehouses of utility companies because of the unoccupied utility packaging, because those who should have done it, this is the Society for the Management of Waste Packaging, they didn't take it. That is to say, the costs incurred by unregulated legislation in the environment are some ten times or several hundred times higher than the legal assistance of legal experts involved in the drafting of this law. I think that the environment is and environmental protection, and in particular this waste area is of course so important that we need to resolve it comprehensively and professionally, and therefore, respectfully, this also excuses the money we have given to prepare a quality proposal. Once again, I deny that this would be contrary to the resolution; this is in accordance with the resolution, I can also quote if specific provisions of the resolution are required below. Now there was some controversy about covering the indirect costs. In fact, part of the non-governmental sector opposes this, while the economy needs this if some economic operators are to be preserved in Slovenia and also in Europe. Indeed, this coverage of indirect costs is closely linked to regulation and is also suggested to cover this work by the European Commission. In fact, the European economy that buys a lot of electricity and needs it for its production in Slovenia are such manufacturers, such as Talum Kidričova or the Slovenian steel industry, as well as the Slovenian paper industry Impol, this is what the manufacturing industry in the field of aluminium and someone else uses electricity in its work. And that's a huge amount of electricity. This electricity is also partly subject to the cost of emission vouchers because it is only in Europe. Emission vouchers and electricity producers from third countries do not need to pay emission vouchers for the production of the same products, which means that the European economy is less competitive than the economy from third countries. And if we want to keep this European economy in Europe, it is said that it will not go to third countries and also pollute the environment there, because it will not be subject to these costs of CO2 coupons, the European Commission has allowed this industry to be able to recover from the climate fund for part of the costs. Due to the high price rise of CO2 coupons and because we want to keep the Talum in Kidrič, the Slovenian steel industry in Ravna, Jesenica, Storach and other papershops in this country, we have also allowed the possibility of covering indirect costs in the Republic of Slovenia, as many European countries do. And I ask you, honourable Members, to understand that this measure is merely a measure to make the European industry competitive to third countries that do not pay CO2 coupons for electricity. This needs to be understood and I ask that we also listen to the arguments of the Economic Chamber and also from these local environments where this largest industry comes from. In particular, say, the Kidrichevo Congregation, where, of course, I don't know what they're going to do if we shut down these factories. Perhaps intervention with Mrs Slug, who spoke about the rehabilitation of contaminated areas and talked about Cel and talked about the need or even referred to one member as saying that this would be resolved in the Environmental Protection Act. And it is! In chapter 59, the article discusses these things and discusses the way in which such areas are being resolved everywhere in Slovenia in similar cases. So that what has been promised in this House at the time of consideration of the law has also been carried out. Now, if this 59th article, which relates to a number of other articles, needs to be supplemented, this is, of course, possible. I think it's well written and actually responds to what is ambition, to take measures to rehabilitate degraded areas all over the country. Of course, the aim is not ignored, because there is actually an environmental wound, by the current government – Mrs Member knows well – because we are implementing a kindergarten rehabilitation project, we are actually at the end of this project. It is also the rehabilitation of the Bukovzlak landfill, which is a major environmental wound, not to mention an old snitch, where the municipality of Celje and the Ministry are involved in the rehabilitation of this few hectares of the large area. Of course, it is wise that recovery takes place at the same time as some future development of this area. Therefore, it is right that the recovery is strained with future use and that is why we are cooperating. I want to tell you that these remedial measures are taking place both in Celje with substantial resources from the country and elsewhere in Slovenia. Let me remind you of, like, the Mici Valley and stuff. So, once again, there's no evidence that we missed it, that we didn't keep our word. These provisions are covered by the law. I would also like to point out once again that the LMŠ Member has pointed out that we have dissolved our legal service. That's not true. In fact, we have reclassified the ministry in such a way that legal support is for the solutions of the individual Directorate within the Directorate and, of course, we also have a legal service in the General Secretariat. Before that, we had another legal service at the level of the minister's cabinet. And you can probably tell me that the minister, as head of a certain department, has the right to organise this facility by doing the most effectively or as he thinks it is right. And I don't know why that would be problematic. Once again, I reject the LMŠ Member's statement that the resolution on regulatory activities would be violated, as this resolution recommends the participation of external experts in the creation or drafting of legislation. I have also indicated to you in my public statements that we will support the introduction of the bail system in this law. In fact, the law has been in Parliament since November. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, opposition groups demanded this general treatment, which is what is happening today. In the meantime, this is said at this time, the NGO Legal Information Centre has also presented us with a solution – that is to say, after the introduction and consideration of this law in the Government and after investing in the National Assembly – this bailout system. I am very pleased that it has also been supported by the Chamber of Commerce in this part, which discusses the producers of drinks, which also support the introduction of this depository because they will participate significantly in this. We also need to have a few more interviews with traders or the Chamber of Commerce in order to actually coordinate this. However, I promise you that the Government will support the bail system – these are the amendments prepared by the Legal Information Centre and are likely to be invested – also supported. I believe that this is a welcome one, in particular in order to meet the environmental objectives in this area and I consider this to be another important improvement. What was said by the representative or the Left about the cessation of waste status is a very important solution when we introduce into the Slovenian legal order the possibility of ceasing waste status from case to case. Under certain conditions and criteria, this status may cease. I have no problem informing any other committee if necessary, but this I think it is wise that these principles of the circular economy allow as few wastes as possible to actually be found as waste on various landfills, because each dump is also a wound in the environment. [[…]] It is much better to process waste into products in accordance with modern technologies and to make useful use of it. This law follows this, and I believe that an in-depth debate on this subject will also convince the skeptics that they will also support these solutions. There's something else about covering for indirect costs. Let me say that the conditions, since the regulation on this coverage of indirect costs is also at public level, the condition for covering indirect costs for an undertaking to receive this subsidy to cover indirect costs is that at least half of this money is returned to the green transition or to decarbonisation. In short, this money is not just some kind of subsidy, but it is dedicated, and it is important that this money that the company receives in order to compete against third-country producers is also earmarked for green transition or decarbonisation. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Mr. President, the Honourable Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak with co-worker, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I will not touch on what the Minister himself has just spoken about, which has responded to the views of the parliamentary groups, which I must say, are quite positive, so somehow it shows that this law on environmental protection will go into a further procedure and that it will eventually be adopted. We really needed this law, and I must say that it is very modern, very much following Europe and following that we will have an even cleaner, even greener environment and a purely natural environment. Some of the things in the law are those that needed to be adapted to the directives of the European Union, and otherwise the law is particularly modern if I can say so. It is very important to welcome, I very much welcome this establishment of basic rules on waste management, extended producer responsibility, common financial responsibility, the information system of the Ministry of System Control and so on. I also welcome, of course, many of the provisions concerning administrative procedures and de-de-barcation, which is very important. This producer's responsibility seems necessary to me, we've waited a long time for it, and there will be some really big changes when you know who's drinking and who's paying. And of course it will have to take care of the packaging cycle from start to finish and that is the most important thing. The materials used again or the circular economy seems to me also to be a matter that we have spoken a lot about in Parliament at various sessions, at different levels, and we will finally have these things regulated by law, so that as little waste will be available at the landfills as possible, so that they will be kept incinerated and so on. As regards the renewal of environmental permits, it is also very welcome that one procedure will be carried out. Then the disposal of the waste dump is described in very detail in the law, especially as regards inspection control. I would like to touch the Eco Fund here, although the Minister has already said a lot about the Eco Fund, we have also heard in our views. Perhaps the only thing I would add to the Eco Fund is that it may be an internal matter of the Eco Fund, but it seems to me that there are some sanctions, perhaps for such minor offences that may have occurred to anyone who, of course, benefited from these funds, that it would not then be possible for a year or even decades more to obtain funds from the Eco Fund. Here I think there is something else to be done because these penalties or sanctions are very disproportionate and there is a lot of damage to be done here. Because if some minor matter, which then, of course, is being corrected immediately, these penalties are being carried out and carried on. Many investors, who, of course, also invest a lot of their money, are somehow unable to obtain these funds from the Eco Fund. Here I might just welcome the fact that it will be subsequently incorporated into the law of the bail system. We know that these cans are enough everywhere, and I've talked about this all the time, even in the National Assembly, I've talked about these cases many times myself. If we look at what it looks like along the roads with these cans and bottles, it's really a disaster, and I think it's going to be much better in this area. Perhaps I would just like to take the initiative to be much more supportive of innovative waste recovery programmes for different entrepreneurs, companies that are intended to process waste, either plastics or rubber and so on, from which different products can be made, including those that can be recycled later. Here I think there is a need for a few more incentives. Because I've heard quite a few cases where some people already wanted to get a little more serious about these things, it wasn't much of a will. Above all, in previous times, as it is now, I don't know, but I think we need to pay more attention to this and the country needs to be more inclined here. I am also very happy that these companies will be dealing with waste that has worked very domestically. Many times we have been able to watch — or watch — the full store of waste from various municipal companies when these waste management companies do not move. These piles of waste then stand by the communes, despite the fact that the country has already helped significantly here. There was a lot of play, a lot of fires unexplained; in short, a lot of disorder and also a lot of money. So money also worked very well at home, and it is also interesting where this money from this address disappeared. I am very pleased that order will actually be made here and that one waste management company will be established, which will also act as a non-profit company. This seems to me very much to make progress and it is right to do so and to make order in this area. Maybe I'd just add here that there's been a lot of health waste lately, mainly due to this testing and vaccination. This is in tons of masks lying all over the floor, and these wastes should also be properly disposed of. We see that this is throwing all over the dumpsters, it's all mixed up, and here's really one big mess. I think there's going to be a lot more to be done here to make things right. Otherwise, I hope, and we all expect, in the highest possible expectation, that there will be an end to the epidemic and that there will be no more of these wastes. I also thought it was a bit of an incorrect debate by a Member who mentioned the Celje Cauldron, given that this government is trying to do its best, even in accordance with financial possibilities, and that the Celje Cauldron is thus recovering certain parts concerning kindergartens, Bukovžlak, zinc, including what the Minister mentioned and I thought this discussion or position was a little incorrect. Even though previous governments have done virtually nothing in this area. Now to talk about why it isn't, right now, right now, but it's a little funny. Of course, it's pre-election time, and I understand that, but I find it very inappropriate. On this occasion, I might also thank the minister for the rehabilitation of the Rakovnik landfill, which is truly commendable. I am also pleased that from the last week, from the last visit to the Inspectorate and also to the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, things are actually moving faster and will move faster and this landfill will also be repaired as needed. Such landfills, contaminated areas in Slovenia are large and we also know how the environment was sometimes dealt with and nature with waste as a pig with fur. All of a sudden, it is a bit difficult to overtake this government, but it is a little irresponsible. This is what needs to be said, and I believe that all these things that have come to pass will continue, as it is set, and that a wide range of areas will also be saved, as it is necessary. But it has to be said that it also costs a lot, it is very expensive. But sometimes nothing really looked at what was being done, and today we hear perhaps also from such customers who had been in power before, even in the previous system, but now they point to what they had caused when no one was concerned, and they show: “Yes, you do, you do,” but you have, in fact, or have caused yourself. Therefore, it would also be illusory to expect them to do anything in this area, so nothing has been done in this area so far. Almost nothing, but now things are moving, and I am very glad that things are going in the right direction and that the money needed is also meant to do so. That's how I'll be very happy to support these things. I believe that some amendments will be tabled, and I have also given a good look at the opinions of the Community of Slovene municipalities and other municipalities, some of them I think are desirable on site, especially those concerning the issue of permits for temporary or occasional excessive noise pollution by municipalities. There were quite a few such interesting comments when one and the same complain about noise, if any matters are organised in a larger place or in a city, but at the end of the day everything is still feasible, but the procedures are stalling and there are very big problems because of this. So I think it would be good to do something else, make a move on it. I am also pleased that the economy also supports the law, which is very important, industry and also NGOs. Here too, the Minister should be commended, and I think it is right that Members are sometimes commended that we will not only criticise. On the one hand, I am also very pleased that, at the time of the various deceptions that have taken place around the referendum and so on, and then that it has occurred that the Minister has begun to prepare this law on environmental protection, various pressures. Also on the part of those who, and in the future, will no longer be fed the garbage from this title, that they did not throw the minister away and that the matter concerning the Environmental Protection Act has been prepared for this stage to be addressed now. That is why all praise and my support continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Rudy Bear has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thank my colleague Doblekar for reminding us again that the previous governments have done nothing and that time for a new start has begun to count 13. 3. 2020 and that from then on year 1 and in year 2, that is last year, but it was the Minister for Environment and Space that managed to mobilise the entire Slovenian public and get people to the referendum because he wanted to do too much. So much for that. So now, according to your count, year 3 and on the table we have the Environmental Protection Act-2, which the Minister happily named the environmental constitution. This is really an environmental constitution, and if we like to say that the constitution is being interfered with by a shaking hand, I have the feeling that this time, perhaps also because of bitter experience with the Water Act, the ministry in this area has intervened with a shaking hand. Although determined, but with some respect not only to the environment, to all citizens and citizens, to the profession, not least to non-governmental environmental organisations. Since this, respected and respected, is a rare one, I will not say the only one, but it is one of the very rare laws that this government has managed to bring through public hearing procedures, especially in the context of all, both in the field of non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment and in the field of expertise, that it does not really come from the public, how it was written in some cabinets far from the eyes of the public. Well, it wasn't in the cabinets because it was written on the outside operator. I believe it can't be that controversial in itself, but I don't believe what Senko Plitchanic said when writing this law. I could read how he and his team worked on this marriage and sacrificed themselves for us and that instead of people at the Ministry of Environment and Space wrote this law. And that's, I mean, very underestimating. Otherwise, I don't know exactly how many people are employed at the Ministry of Environment and Space. I think in the narrow sense of the ministry about 250, in the wider sense, if we take into account some other services, about 500; but I speak so little from memory. And so that all these people do not know how to do anything about such a law, it is, of course, underestimating to them. And I do not believe, but I have also dealt with people from the Ministry of Environment and Space in previous life, especially as director of the municipal administration, we have had a lot to do with them, and they are not as damningly unprofessional as Senko Plitcanič says that state officials are not in any trouble and that he is personally a witness to their insubordination. So much for that. In LMŠ, we were instigated to have a general debate on this law. More inclinations have led us to this. One reliable solution is the elimination of waste packaging problems. Of course, these problems are far from being solved. In today's debates, I have heard many times talk in the past. Of course, we can't talk in the past, because at these municipal dumps, the mountains are still piled up with these waste packs, on some more on some smaller ones. I wondered how this was with us, for example, in our congregation in Zagorje, but I learned that in fact they managed to solve this problem somehow with severe pain. In some difficult deals with waste packaging companies and with great pressure with inspection decisions to somehow solve the problem. Not everyone in Slovenia is so lucky, so there are about 9 or 10 thousand tons of this piled-up waste packaging that is not taken over. Of course, on the one hand, it can be blamed on the companies dealing with waste packaging, and on the other hand, we do not have systematic funding to the end. In its audit, the Court of Auditors considered that for more than half of all packaging on the market, packaging was not paid at all. So the blame is not only on these societies, although it is also, but we have not been able to solve this systemic problem. Whether we are dealing with it definitively with this proposed law, I do not know at this time, so we thought it was worth talking more about these things. Look, the packaging isn't left, it's not right, it's left and right, and that's true. He's lying on his left and right, everywhere. So let's work together to find the right solution so that we can finally avoid this problem. After all, we all have the right to do so together, and it is our duty to enable people to exercise this right. Although there are no major problems in LMŠ with the proposal that this regulation of waste water packaging or this is done by a non-profit company, it is true that there are also reasons against and that we have been able to hear them from the economy. That is why, through this debate and beyond, the possibility of amendments to the proposed law may further improve this solution. Certainly, however, it is right that this is what the law is about. We must all tackle it together, as I say, the packaging is not left, not right and the environment is just one. What we have proposed in the LMŠ is this general debate and, of course, as it now appears, there is almost a consensus on the introduction of the bail system, which I am sure is extremely good news for the environment. I am not going to say that we are very late with this, but it is true that I currently think that 12 countries in Europe – and, just a few days ago or just yesterday, Latvia joined this group of countries – have introduced and implemented this system, is in fact the only one already achieving the objectives of the European Union. By 2030, we need to collect 90 per cent of the bottles separately, and this is the way to achieve this goal, not just because the European Union commands us to do so, because of ourselves. The bailout system, as it were, is no big deal. I remember when I was a kid getting acid water to the store, and of course we always carried bottles with us. And in a way, we still have a bond system to return glass packaging to us, but on the other hand, it is true that most of these bottles are now suddenly for single use, although they are whole and are likely to be given normally, once again, to be used. I have heard from several parliamentary groups that are preparing amendments to this law. I must say that last summer we joined the Eco Circle in LMŠ with the environmental organisation, and in the Eco Circle we also had more or less prepared amendments and a broken-down system on which we could introduce a bailout system in Slovenia. So, in agreement with them, in the LMSH, we adopted him more or less. There's probably nothing wrong with these ideas anymore. It will be easier to decide which is better or I think we will be able to unify ourselves around these amendments, at least as far as the KUL coalition is concerned. We have decided to prepare these amendments at a time when we have not yet had some of these signals from the Ministry of the Environment, that the Ministry itself is inclined to do so. Nevertheless, we will put them in, compare them, and perhaps make them an even better solution. Of course, it is also a happy information, not only that we are very much in favour of the introduction of the bail system here in Parliament, but that there are also good signals coming from outside, from the economy, representatives of the liquor industry want to actively participate in this planning and implementation of the system, which is certainly very good news. Somewhere. A few days ago, I tracked down a record of one of the companies, in order to be valid with the bailout system to wait for about two years, and to see how the Environmental Protection Act works in practice, and only then to do so. In Slovenia, it is said that most of this waste plastic packaging, which would belong to this depository system, is already collected and much recycled, because we are not so bad at this. But the fact is, of course, if you just look at it, the nature of these plastic bottles and cans is still incredibly large. Will those few cents of bail mean that we will be able to collect and reuse this more? I don't know. It's in people's heads, of course. I simply can’t believe that there can be so many discarded bottles along this road, on such a short state road as Zagorje to Trojans, on those seven or eight kilometers. It's simply amazing that people are still throwing it out the windows. Obviously. And that's not from today! I think that in the past, as the director of the municipal administration, I have called this company that cleans this area along the roads to collect it. Of course, it just can't be solved. Will this, at least in part, ease the introduction of a bailout system for the packaging of drinks? I believe he will. I believe that this will eventually change people's thinking. So it's not a reward if you put this package back in a collection place and you get those few cents, but it's primarily a responsibility; it's a responsibility that we obviously have to shoulder. But we believe that this bail system, which, through Europe, where it has already been introduced, gives excellent results; that, of course, it is high time for us to do so also in Slovenia, where we are speakingly saying that we are responsible to the environment, that we like to have a beautiful and clean environment, but we do not show it in the most beautiful light in this area. This time I will not discuss individual articles of the Environmental Protection Act, although we also have certain comments in the LMŠ on individual solutions. This is a general debate, it is a general impression of a proposal for a law. The one ahead of us, with minor or greater shortcomings, however, let us all hope, including a little more order in the field of waste packaging management. However, we want to improve the law by introducing the bail system. I am almost sure that, given the reactions of individual parliamentary groups, we will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you, Chairman. Besides, I don't know if I should even ask questions about the debate that the Minister and I have already had. Anyway, if he can answer me later, or if the coworker who is with him today can answer me. Me and Minister Viszak, and also Minister Vrtovec, I have been running a little bit, two, three years now I have been alerting you to the monitoring of the surfaces, namely the Zasavje area, or if I am even more specific to the area where the consequences of mining will remain; it is said, the closure of RTH. A little ping-pong playing on this topic. Minister Vizjak, here I have an answer from a year and a half ago that when he gives the initiative that these closing works are finished, that this right to mining will then dry up so that they will also take care of appropriate monitoring. This is mainly about geotechnical observation of waste water, groundwater and also surfaces. Now, correct me, or I must say that, as far as I can remember, in the area where I was looking, I found nothing special on the subject of monitoring. This is not only a matter of surfaces in the area of Zasavje or RTH, which has already ceased to function. Otherwise, it is formally extended, and also that extended year and a half, when RTH will have to take care of it, but we also have other areas where the mines and they have problems, but this monitoring is not yet legally regulated. Somehow I expected this to be regulated by this law, so I would like a little comment or reply from the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I will answer to my predecessor, Comrade Sonibo Knezak, on behalf of the Minister. I asked him a similar question, and he said: “We will not bury a body that is still warm.” First of all, as an opposition Member, I am of course delighted that the Government is opening such a law or – as the Minister has said – an environmental constitution and is trying to open up on some systemic or some roof level the topics that are needed and here I say some affection for this idea to be done. As colleague Sukič had already submitted in the introduction to the presentation of the Group's position, here are some things that raise the question to me: Okay, if the Government opens this issue to such a wide systemic, if you want, substantive level, then why do the key things that need to be addressed, which need to be done here and now intervention, remain closed? So, let's say the problem of incinerators and co-incinerators or the equation of the allowed level of discharges. This is a problem that we keep alerting in Levika all the time: we have one incinerator in Celje, which has permission for some level of discharges, we have a co-incinerator in Anhove, which operates with a completely different, higher level of permitted discharges, and they are doing essentially the same thing. In Anhove, however, we know what environmental impact this leaves behind: in diseases, in drinking water, in tourism, in the economy, in human health, in environmental health and so on. This is a thing that such a roofing law or intervention in such a marriage should support. This is one of the key environmental issues – incineration of hazardous waste. It needs to be addressed and, in this regard, I also predict that in the future we will put in appropriate amendments in order to fill this legal void on this side in the next reading, which I welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you, too. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word! I welcome today's debate on the Environmental Protection Act to exchange views, facts and proposals, because we all live together on such a beautiful piece and, of course, we must take care of it. We must strive for the quality of our stay, we must strive to preserve nature and the environment as well. The Environmental Protection Act will, inter alia, comprehensively address this area of waste management and simplify administrative procedures in the field of waste. One of the most important measures is the new producer's extended liability system. The substance of the proposed arrangement is to ensure that manufacturers bear all costs related to waste from their products and that these costs are kept as low as possible. The Environmental Protection Act also allows for the integration of environmental protection procedures allowed by the environmental consent procedure, which will also allow for faster decision-making on all these procedures. The law addresses a number of other important environmental issues. It is very important to me that Minister Viszak will also include in the Environmental Protection Act a bailout system for more recycled return packages and drinks. I have already addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 October of the previous year a parliamentary initiative or a question on the establishment of the bail system. I was one of the first Members to advocate the establishment of a bail-out system for the collection of waste packaging all the time. The introduction of the bailout system is also included in the best election programme in New Slovenia. The introduction of the bailout system is very important in Slovenia, since in Slovenia more than 137 million bottles end up in nature, in incinerators, in landfills, meaning 137 million bottles do not go into recycling. Bottles 5 are made directly from material that is very easy to recycle, but does not lose its value if the material is clean and does not have other types of plastic added. The system basically works by buying consumers in a store to pay the deposit for the packaging, which is 10 cents abroad, and then getting returned when the packaging is returned. The introduction of the bailout system was, of course, encouraged by the European Directive on Single-Use Plastic Products and was adopted in 2019 and also defined the objectives of collecting and recycling bottles, after which we will have to collect 90 per cent of our packaging by the end of 2029 and will have to contain at least 30 per cent of our recycling. Experience from other countries has shown that financial motivation in the form of bail is very effective, an incentive for separate collection. For example, in Lithuania alone, there is one example where 33 per cent of waste packaging was collected in 2015 and 92 per cent of waste packaging has been collected in just two years since the establishment of the bailout system. And I believe we will be even better Slovenians in this area. The bailout system brings more recycling, costs less, and, after all, more jobs, and in particular, the bailout system brings less confusion. Let's not forget, we didn't inherit the Earth from our predecessors, but we borrowed it from our craftsmen. Therefore, we must guard it, work with it, act responsibly. And that is what today’s law on environmental protection brings, and that is why I will be happy to support it. However, Mrs Sukič explained that there was no bail system. Normally, this law was introduced into the procedure of November, and the agreement on this was adopted in January and on the working body, we will include this amendment in February and then confirm it in the third reading. Don't worry so much. What we promised in this coalition, what the minister promised, I know we'll do that, too, we'll do the bail system. I don't know why you didn't. Just today, you're the smartest person who's ever had scissors and a canvas in your hands. But as in all areas, this government answers a number of questions, including environmental issues, and this government will also, of course, introduce a bail system. I welcome this, and I absolutely support this bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I owe one of the two answers to the Member of Parliament. First of all, the RTH and monitoring response. The point of view of the Ministry of Environment and Space is that all business entities that are some kind of polluter and are still active, and RTH is, of course, taking care of this monitoring themselves. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for monitoring the state of the environment and, of course, for specific pollutants, these pollutants. That is why there is still an uncoordinated position here between us and the Ministry of Infrastructure on this issue. This does not directly apply to this law, but is, of course, relevant when addressing the issue of environmental protection. So, based on this intervention of yours, I will try once again to find some progress here on this, because we have also recently provided additional funds by law. And it would be a good thing to do that. I think it needs to be done. Then Member Siter asked about co-incinerators, incinerators. The Environmental Protection Act now merely stipulates in Article 18 that the limits set by the sub-laws should be respected. Thus, these things are not directly linked to an equation or any intervention at this limit value. As you know, the Commission has also been set up on the basis of decisions of the National Assembly, which must adopt a position or aim to take a position on the equalisation of the limit values of co-incineration plants and incineration plants. This Commission has been divided into two parts; one is the technical part, the technical and technological part where we as the ILO have somehow taken over this organisation. And this subcommission has already drafted a report in the first half of last year. While the other subcommission, which is more from this medical point of view, has unfortunately not yet finished its work. The Ministry of Health is more competent for this subcommission, as it is more concerned with these health experts. And as a result, once this subcommission has finished its work, they will come to a conclusion. But I'd like to point out one thing. It is not enough to point out that incinerators and co-incineration plants are subject to two different technologies, including completely different technologies, even at different temperatures. In the case of co-incineration plants there are significantly higher temperatures because the main purpose is to produce just one item, specifically in Salonite Anho cement and the like, whereas in the case of incineration plants, the final product is the thermal treatment of those raw materials and the production of electricity and heat. And this is done at significantly lower temperatures, so at certain limit values for co-incineration plants due to technology some limit values are slightly higher, these are for these so-called TOCs, NOx, while for heavy metals and other pollutants the limit values are more stringent for co-incineration plants than for incineration plants. It is also understandable that the process is under way at higher temperatures and these limits are more easily achieved. All these thresholds are not based on officialism, but on in-depth discussions of the European profession that come through so-called BAT technologies – best available technology – in recommendations or guidelines and consequently into sub-legislative acts of different countries. In fact, this is not just a matter that one policy decides to equalise some values, but that each thing must have a serious expertise behind it. And the equation, if you literally read it like that, would mean that for a number of limit values in co-incineration plants, the situation is getting worse. For heavy metals, for example, because they are now stricter standards. So I would just wait for the experts, because this is an expert discussion now. I do not think that there should be a political debate as to whether the limit values for co-incinerators and incinerators will be the same, but this is mainly professional and multidisciplinary, as we are talking about technological issues, as we are talking about health aspects. That's all I'd say. Salonit Anhovo is repeatedly exposed to this burden of history. As you know, there has been asbestos production, which has long been banned, and the consequences of asbestos and these production processes on human health are still present today, and perhaps even in certain cases they will not come back just like that. However, the big question is whether this health condition of humans is due to exposure to asbestos from the past, any connection to today's cement production technology. Most or all, I do not know the measurements that will prove that this co-incineration plant or would say that cement production exceeds the limit values according to the prescribed measurement methodology. It is true that a methodology can also be questionablely credible given that certain things are measured twice a year and some things are also in advance. That is why the municipality is also implementing and we have also installed, as far as I know, one measuring device, Arso mobile measuring device to get things to the bottom. Again, I believe that the profession will also find relevant answers on this issue of equivalence or, as I would say, setting the correct limit values for co-incineration and mono-incineration, of course, in cooperation with professional practice and best technologies. Because all of us have the goal of improving and improving those economic operators that are major polluting or, I would say, pose some risk to the environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Soniboy Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you. Actually, I'm not going to say a replica, thank you, Your Honor Minister, if you'll expedite this matter. Because I'm getting on my own, but this thing is important to the mammals. You know, hundreds of miles of trenches, which are not only Hrastnik and Trbovlje, are also wider, thousands of liters of water fall away, all that is. It is true, however, that, by extending this law to the RTH, which was essentially extended only because the procedures are not completed, the technical part of the closure of the mine itself is completed. Of course, there were no funds for what they had promised the local communities; there were some roads in Hrastnik, Trbovje and so on. So I was kind of expecting, and given that, in the near future, we're looking at a little bit of closure, with all the consequences, even in the Shale Valley over the next 10, 15 years, so I kind of expected it to be part of this law. However, I would be happy if your intervention would also help to make things work out, because I think it is more than just what they are in the area of monitoring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. Fellow Members and Members! For the Sab customer, environmental protection is, of course, an important programme priority, as we are aware that the strategic advantage of our country is a healthy and clean environment, both in terms of the production of healthy and ecological food and the development of tourism and overall quality of life. That is why, at our initiative, the right to drinking water was enshrined in the Constitution in the National Assembly. That is why, at our initiative, the National Assembly passed a law prohibiting the use of certain disposable plastic products. That is why, at our initiative in the National Assembly for the Most Vulnerable, pensioners over 65 years of age, veterans of war, we adopted a law that allows for free driving in inter-national passenger transport. Then we also encouraged the adoption of a law or contract with the largest municipalities and free passenger transport for over 65 years of age, pensioners and veterans is also possible in the largest Slovenian cities and also this law before us follows these initiatives or expectations. We find it very important to tackle the environmental problem in the field of waste. We know that the unpicked packaging was a very big problem; we know that producers who placed less than 15 tonnes on the market were not registered or their quantities were not misled. As a result, these quantities have been accumulated, and now this law is being resolved because that limit, which seems to us to be a major problem, is being lifted. And if we know that in the first ten months of last year more than 9,000 tons of packaging have been collected and that they come in November, I'll say, all the crazies around this November 1st, so these waste candles, then we know that we really need a change of law in this light. We must also not forget the environmental problems that unscrambled packaging causes. We had several self-inflicted packagings in Maribor, and this was probably not the only case. I think that one of them was in Dolenjska, as well as somewhere around Logatca and also in Ljubljana, this amount of waste is being fueled several times. It is right that the law addresses these problems and challenges with this packaging are great, but we must especially see these challenges as a development opportunity, for the development of the circular economy, for the development of new technologies and services. Recycling, separate collection, upgrades and re-use are the foundations of the circular economy that we are defending in the SAB and in the SAB we are still aware that a strong economy is the basis for a strong social state, higher wages and higher pensions, and, of course, we support these extensions in this regard. We also support the basic extension introduced by the law on the deposit box in Article 176. However, we want this provision to be fixed in a timely manner, and in this sense, as soon as possible, we will table a technical amendment and set a date for these bail procedures to begin as soon as possible, with a view to determining how to adapt our economy and the environment. We must be aware that by 2025 77 percent of all plastic packagings, bottles and cans must be collected separately. This share should be increased to at least 90 per cent by 2029. Of course, this is not such a simple process that we can make from today to tomorrow, but requires complex preparations. We know that the Croats had a problem with this because of black imports of packaging from abroad. For example, if someone from Slovenia went to Croatia, or bought beer here or Radensko, this packaging was not paid for by a bailout and, of course, they are needed here in this sense of technological adjustment, perhaps an invention of some code, which would somehow register each bottle and have been recorded that each bottle or can was paid for by a bailout. This is very important in order not to exhaust this system. As I have already said, in fact, the law seems to us in this light to be suitable for further consideration. We will support it in the SAB, as long as it continues in this way in the next stages. As I have already said, it seems very important for us to address these issues, especially in the light of climate change. We must be aware that 50 per cent of all emissions are generated by the production and processing of input raw materials. Plastics as one of the most commonly used materials, including the most frequently discarded materials, is one such opportunity, especially because we know what damage microplastics cause in lakes, streams and rivers. We know that it comes through animals into the human food cycle and that it has even been observed or found in the embryo’s cot. In this sense, plastic, its use or irresponsible use, its irresponsible rejection is not easy, but has harmful environmental effects not only on the environment, but also on people. It is therefore appropriate to allow this law to be further addressed and to address the environmental challenges facing all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At the first presentation of the new Environmental Protection Act in November last year, the Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak stressed that this is a modern environmental law designed to preserve the environment and protect nature from unacceptable interventions. The law also addresses the need for sustainable development and good environmental management and nature. In the first place, improvements or comprehensive waste management arrangements have been highlighted as a key amendment and a novelty of this law, saying that so far the legislation has been subordinated, most of the rules have been laid down by law, and the area of waste is now being fully regulated, while at the same time the new regulation substantially deregulations and simplifies administrative procedures related to waste. In the Chamber of Municipal Economy, which is under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, it was estimated that the new law on environmental protection in this area is the light at the end of the tunnel. Since I am not a member of the committee responsible, I have not dealt in this bill in depth, but I would still like to use the general debate as a question to the Minister of Mags. Visionary: Does this law also refer to a specific type of waste, such as waste that is loaded with mercury or with combustible residues? This law lays down the principles for the polluter to pay and to define in detail the producer's extended liability. In our case, the polluter is no longer present, for it is the Idrija Living Silver Mine, which, at the time of its five hundredth operation, polluted and degraded the entire environment of the city of Idrija and, consequently, the Idrija, Soča and Tržaška Bay. So I wonder: Does this law provide the basis for the management of the waste dumps that are burdened with mercury? The next question concerns environmental remediation contaminated by scattered sources of pollution. The law provides that, on the basis of data on air, water, soil and noise quality, the individual area or part of the environment may be classified as the highest level of pollution and that the Government may, by regulation, define the environment or part of the environment as a degraded area and thus establish a specific programme of measures to improve the state of the environment. With regard to these provisions, or article 59 of the Law, am I interested in: Are there areas here that are contaminated with mercury as a result of burning residues as well as radon? Why do I ask that? In this mandate, I have addressed a number of questions and initiatives on this subject, but unfortunately I have not received any more concrete answers. Thus, for example, Minister of Economy Zdravko Restoršek, in response to the question sent on 18 November 2020 concerning the rehabilitation and payment of mining damage, said that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology no longer directly financed any possible mining damage on the premises and the environment, since there was no longer any entity that would cause direct damage through the liquidation of the mine, and that both the environment and the facilities would be saved by the final destruction of the mine. Similarly, the Minister of Mags answered several questions. The vision that the Ministry of Environment and Space does not have a legal basis for solving these problems. But it's true he's my Minister of Magic. Visak replied to my question on the rehabilitation of mining damage and the degraded environment in Idrija on 15 June 2020 that he was willing to cooperate in this regard and together with other sources and with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to find an appropriate solution, as they committed themselves in the coalition contract to actively solving these problems in the country. Despite the fact that the Mercury Mine is no longer an economic entity, since, as already mentioned, the ministries serve each other as a hot bone, the mine, with all its infrastructure, trenches, caves, watered and indefatigable works, is still an integral part of the Idrija area and has a negative impact on the environment. The centre for the management of the heritage of mercury as the successor to the mine is monitoring and, at the time of re-engineering in 2018, points to new phenomena of swimming, slips, warming, hydrological problems and other phenomena that threaten the inhabitants and the entire infrastructure. The fact is that despite the remediation of the mine, the points on the surface are still moving. In Idria, however, there are still more than 6 percent of all the world’s mercury reserves. During the 500-year operation of the mine, approximately 37,000 tonnes of mercury exploded into the environment and is also burdensome. There is also a problem with the living silver of burdened land, construction waste in actions in the degraded area, as we do not have an official landfill in Slovenia for waste loaded with mercury. It is 480 thousand cubic feet [480,000 sq m] of burnt residues and barren matter loaded with mercury, which is about 300 thousand square feet [300,000 sq m], or 15 percent of the walled surfaces in some parts of Idria and Lower Idria. Article 1 of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mine of Mercury Idrija states that the environment is protected directly over the Mine of Mercury in Idrija and that the city of Idrija is protected from the consequences of the possession and other consequences reflected in the mining damage, the health condition of former miners due to the long-standing mining of the mine, and that these consequences are remedied. This law regulates the relationship of common importance in relation to the gradual closure of the mine and the provision of funds for these purposes. This law is still in force and I do not think it is contrary to this law that we are considering today. That is why, last November, I sent an initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to systematically address the rehabilitation of mining damage and degraded environment in the city of Idrija and to arrange waste disposal facilities loaded with mercury as a result of the 500-year exploitation of mining wealth, and to provide adequate financial resources for this purpose and for these works in the state budget. I have also given the Government a parliamentary initiative to bring together and address all the key stakeholders involved in this problem, or in any way, the issue and to find a common solution. Let me get this. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak, I ask you: Is this law also addressing these issues, and will we be able to resolve them on the basis of this law in the next period? Thank you in advance for the answer, but at first reading, of course, I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you, too. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u106	Yes, Your Honor, he's addressing this problem. You have already mentioned in which article, this is in Article 59, paragraph 7, since there are even more such and similar cases in Slovenia where excess of limit values may occur, of excessive pollution from scattered sources. And in this case, the Government shall adopt the programme, including in cooperation with the municipality, that is, in the first paragraph of Article 59. The second paragraph shows what this program must contain. 12 points, including, of course, monitoring, identification of the area and then environmental protection measures, prevention of further pollution and so on. That's how it's done. This programme shall then also set out the obligations of both the State, the municipality and the polluter if, of course, it is still active. For example, in this case, it would be in the case of Cele, where we still have a snitch; it would be the legal successor of those who once caused it there. So what I'm trying to say is that we're addressing this systemic problem. It is true, however, that from case to case it will be necessary to first identify excessive pollution or exceed certain values, whether it is an environmental problem, and then, given the specificity of this problem, to address remedial action. So the legal basis for this is in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Replico Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'm glad the law includes this. That's how I understood Article 59. I also wonder: Does it also address the issue of waste disposal, which is burdened with mercury?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u110	See, there must also be measures among measures of conduct or prevention, where to remove something or whatever, if it is, of course, an integral part of the problem, but also where. This thing has to be complete then. [[…]] As far as the disposal of waste or certain causes of excessive emissions is concerned, it is subject, of course, to an environmental permit and, therefore, to the place where we put it, so that it is an integral part of the programme, it must be certain.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Andrei Chernigoy has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u112	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Environmental Protection Act, which, at least in my personal opinion, will regulate the environment in a comprehensive way, and as a New Slovenia Member - I support Christian Democrats. But I also support today's debate, which, as we can see, can in a very conciliatory and essentially in spirit, how we can drink this law even better. The Environmental Protection Act, similar to its predecessor, lays down the principle of horizontality, which means that the law deals more or less intensively with all parts of the environment, namely, real air, water, nature conservation and could also be listed, and with all instrumental approaches to environmental protection, planning, environmental impact assessment, authorisation and so on. And I must say that we support and agree with this view of the law that is written here in Christian Democrats. If we look at a little bit more really this law, the Environmental Protection Act, we can see that fundamental principles, except for two exceptions, remain almost the same as in the previous law. As a new one, the principle of circular economy is established, which I personally strongly support. If we look at the definition of a circular economy, it is online that the circular economy is a way to organise, produce and consume based on sharing, reuse, repair, renovation and recycling of existing materials and products as long as possible. I'm glad there's a certain hierarchy in waste management. In the law itself you introduced the principles of the polluter of wages and the producer's extended liability. Furthermore, I am very pleased that the essential novelty is also made up of provisions relating to simplifying or speeding up the process of awarding incentives to the Eco-Fund. It is said that citizens and citizens, entrepreneurs can come more quickly, but above all that the branches will continue to become meaningless. And I'm very pleased to hear that. I am pleased, however, that with this law, which will be an upgrade, you have in fact supported the human resources not only in various ministries, but also in additional judicial posts, which I believe will make matters and activities more quickly and orderly in the future. What we have heard in this esteemed assembly today repeatedly tells us who is worthy of having the right to drinking water, which I do not deny and believe, and here I would also like to commend all the parties, including New Slovenia, who voted in favour of entering this right into the Constitution itself. And then the next steps sadden me. It grieves me that nothing has been done in this area since then and since then. I must say whether you admit it or not, it is only now that the current government is taking some real steps in this area. It saddens me, too, that's what the other part of the hall said, and I'm going to quote this now, that the rescue of the Celje Valley will only take place in the elections. On the other hand, I am pleased to come from Illyrian Bistrica alone, and I have also heard that, in fact, in the Celje Cauldron, things are being saved in order to save degradation in kindergartens and how much and how much resources are being allocated for this area. As I have already mentioned, I come from Illyrian Bistrica and from this point of view we have experience with promises in the past. We had quite a few visits from the minister, including the minister who had just left the party to another, came in the floods, took pictures with the media, promised to save the flood zone, and nothing happened. The current coalition has changed that. However, I must say that at least according to my personal behavior during this coalition, the current minister did not visit Illyrian Bistrica, but he understands the problem and the matter is being resolved. It pleases me, no soft content, but concrete help. As I said before, I come from Illyrian Bistrica alone, so I would like to tell citizens and citizens that, although we have been neglected for many years, the matter is changing. I could say that a recently laid foundation stone was laid for Illyrian Bistrica-Rodik. Here the joint efforts of the mayor, the administrations of the municipality, the MP and the ministry and the minister have brought results. In fact, 227 people will be included in the water system in the whole project. The project itself is valued at EUR 23 million and, together with the renewal of the so-called mustache road, the whole project is worth 36 million. These are concrete projects that are already being implemented. Why there was no hearing for clean drinking water in the past, but now yes, is a question that should be asked by every citizen and citizen of Illyrian Bistrica and from a number of other places throughout Slovenia. And this is where things don't end. I am very pleased that I can read from the media – and there are so many things, I am not even aware of all – that this year the documentation is in 2022 and the rehabilitation of the Bistrician landfill Globovnik. A lot of people say we don't know how to use professions. It says here the Skocjan Cave Park will be the coordinator of this project and because I can only welcome it and I can say that 200 000 euros are allocated for this year and 300 000 euros for next year. And I'm not talking about the recovery of the river. So, as I said before, we had a minister who made a lot of promises, did nothing, and I can say that I am very happy that from the initial EUR 37,000, which was intended for this issue, we have come here now and here, Minister, I sincerely thank you for a million 300,000. And the works on the riverbed are visible, are clear, and I hope that this problem will be greatly reduced if not even solved in the future. As far as this law is concerned, I would like to draw attention to one matter that is very busy in the environment, and in the past we have had a lot of pollution from migrants and smugglers in Illyrian Bistrica. In 2018 and 2019 alone, municipal services in Illyrian Bistrica have collected more than 22 tons of garbage, light garbage, and so I would ask that you may pay little attention in this law. Last but not least, I would like to thank you here for the spatial documents that things have taken place and Dragotin Kette's elementary school will be set up this year and the foundation stone will be set up next week. Finally, in Illyrian Bistrica we will be a little further away from Ljubljana, we do not have a highway and here I also thank the Ministry of the Environment that all procedures for the implementation of the Postojna-Yelšany motorway are under way in accordance with the plan, and I believe that the documentation will be completed by autumn 2024 as agreed. That's it. Now, only in April do we celebrate the day of the earth, although caring for nature and the environment takes our daily struggle and effort. Slovenia thus became the first country in the world to receive the title of a green destination in 2016, which it achieved with sustainable development. In New Slovenia, we believe that waste treatment must become part of the national circular economy, taking into account industrial symbiosis. It is necessary to amend legislation in order to allow for basic processing, re-use of processed waste mainly in construction and industry. We will pay more attention to new technologies for two-stage waste sorting and the introduction of digitisation, that is, the quality and quantity of basic flows. And for the end, I would like to mention one more thing, because Comrade Reich is no longer in the hall, but I believe he is listening. I very much agree with Comrade Reich. Maintaining clean drinking water is essential, plastic packaging is a problem, and the fact is that the more people are rich, the more they have wages, the more they are ecologically informed, so we can expect the SAB party to support the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you, too. Janez Muskritch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u114	Nice greetings to all present. Dear Minister, Vice-President of the National Assembly! It is interesting if I continue where my colleague ended up in front of me: they should be more ecologically aware, they should be more familiar with the materials, but we are getting more wasted with waste, or we have a problem of how to properly dispose of these wastes or process them or how to dispose of them, and especially how to use them. That's the purpose of this law. This is the principle of the circular economy. We have heard that some wanted to have a so-called general debate on the law. Everyone praised this, but the fact that this general debate is taking place between us Members, but if this law had already been dropped in a regular procedure in the sense that it is being dealt with on the Committee, there are also experts – that is, given the date on which this law was introduced into the National Assembly, it could already be done and could be practically in force if not, at least just before the last important decision. Today we are in general. And what can we find out? We can see that, in general, we all agree, except for the exception of the two Members, as far as we understand. Some had doubts about the deposit, and some had already prepared certain documentation. The Minister also said that they support, because it is likely that this is an upgrade to what is meant by the producer's responsibility, the producer's responsibility is to take care of the waste as well. Because if we don't get into the element that each packaging will be as decomposable as possible, especially useful and less efficient as possible, then we can talk about environmental and environmental protection. Because plastic, we've already figured out, is one of the biggest keys to problems, but it's not the biggest. Since the law is extensive, it is 400 pages of the entire documentation and would be really inappropriate not to finish until the end; it is said by confirmation in the National Assembly in this mandate. Finally, the funds that were — what they were — were also important, said the minister. Indeed, one of the main reasons why we went to the whole new legal matter is that there have already been 10 times changes to the existing and also to the European Directive, because Europe is also aware, particularly Europe is aware of the environmental problem, and new directives are being adopted in this area. And this particular responsibility of the manufacturer is one of these. However, if we do not come to the stage when each one of us will be responsible for the proper use of all the goods that are, but above all, that we will try to be satisfied with the non-packing you know how much support, not least of all European and all, lady and welcome trades that are without packaging is said when you have your packaging – but this is so small that it is practically boutique. You could do that. And that was a short time ago, for the time of my generation! We know what happened to the oil, how it was with the acid water, said a fellow, that's purely technical problems. For example, the packaging, the glass for sour water, is a little bit problematic for my notions of a modern-day fast man, how to close it back. I decided, at home, that we'd only be wearing six paddies, but it didn't work out, because we were watering and so on, without closing up, we weren't inn to drink one liter at a time, and so on. Thus, all manufacturers will also have to adapt to these needs, and that is also the purpose if you ask me, this law and these regulations that are ahead of us. It was also said that a true Member, who frankly said that she would oppose today, referred to her marriage, which was rejected a day ago with my help, and the Minister had a quick answer. Thus, this legislation is provided for in Article 59, if I sum up – I had an open computer, and my computer is shut down – it is said that the law will give the Government the basis to declare the areas that are problematic in cooperation with the local community on its own. Initially, it says, the primary responsibility of the polluters will be – let's say, in a specific case, Celje is one of the biggest contaminants, says Zincarno Celje. It is already the responsibility of the polluter after the law has been in force, and this company must have a fund for ecological rehabilitation. And he does, as far as I know. These are the levers of cooperation with the local community. Because it's important that the area is, say, ecologically problematic. First, we ask ourselves whether we will be needed there for the needs of people's lives, or just for the road or just for the industry. We know that kindergarten requires more standards and standards than a highway, and so on. These are the levers where we also come up with the environmental consensus that is necessary. But let them not be, as I have experience myself – whoever pays a better tailor has a solution in his hand. Because some companies are on the market today and produce such documentation that they then drink water, domestically, in the environmental protection process. I've had experience with this myself over the years and so on. With all the science that exists today. Today it has already been said about candles. Candles are a real problem, but those who are members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Infrastructure Committee also note that the problem is also advertising, advertising material, additional advertising material that the postman brings to the households every Tuesday or when it is worn. We have 859 thousand households in Slovenia. I asked my wife, she weighed, a minimum of half a kilo a week, of this educational material, which is nothing but advertising, is a real commercial for, if you want, Slovenian milk, for Slovenian potatoes, which traders pay to companies involved in advertising, instead of making this money, these millions, these are millions, the rest to a Slovenian farmer producing and producing crops. Our awareness must be that we are buying this, of course, because it is Slovenian. And with this we save — how much? 50 tons, I don't know, more of this stuff just for small households. Because it's usually a paper that's very bad and you can't even use it again. When we talk about bail and similar matters, we must also be careful — for surely there is already a government, a minister in this country, and those responsible — that what is happening to us will not happen. We know what it's like to come to a neighboring country. If we throw away the bottle, if we're too careful and we don't take it to the store for the last day, we throw it out, because some people are just picking it up. We currently have this practice in the field of paper. Quality paper, as much as there is, has its own price. And you know how companies, especially public utilities, try to deliver the containers to us. This is free of charge in Ljubljana, and there are still no special containers in some municipalities. And then he's happy to empty and then he sells it. So we have to keep an eye on these levers so that all these anomalies don't occur. All of this has probably been studied in the past, and there are also some of these studies, so that we don’t have to say we have to pay again. That's what I always call it. These studies, these findings are certainly a great deal, we need to draw a little together, we need to ask, after all, those environmental organisations that have already cooperated. They also get public money to do a lot of good analysis, and because these analyses have been done in the past, they have it in their archives, and they can also help us all in this area at the final stage. We need to be aware that when this law is passed, there will also be a need to adopt a number of sub-legislative acts. Some of them are likely to be existing or only to be updated, and all of this takes time. Therefore, it is really important that we adopt this law as quickly as possible, to correct what has been found. I hope, at least with the marriage work, our legal and legal service won't have much work to do. That's what I hope, because it's a really big piece of material. Let this be all for me today, and all of us who are members of the Infrastructure Committee are waiting for a concrete hearing as soon as possible. At that meeting, however, we know that Mr President can also invite some experts to say in detail. Allow me just this sentence to thank the Minister for his concrete actions. Because that's what counts. That's what counts. Specifically on the environmental problem. I have an experience, 12 years ago, when responsible politicians said that there would be an environmental problem in my place, near my place, in my constituency, where I was elected, sanitized. Look, he didn't make it in 12 years. However, it is not as much a story as it was a story with ML raw materials, and this has succeeded the Minister in this short time, it is true that one year ago, because this story was not real one year ago, today the check case in Stock has been cleared. It's a story. When the company ran for office, it was ordered to take care of the waste mud — we know where. Then where did it end? Just them in the yard. That's not a solution. I therefore support that one company or one organisation, better said, will supervise this in Slovenia, not now that they are scattered. Oh, I paid the guy, I paid the guy, he's in charge of us - the papers always match up, but we had important, very dangerous wastes, like cleaning appliances. So this must be our goal — that these stories no longer happen. If that is all we do, our conscience, our awareness, we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you, too. Joze Lenart has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister! The Law on Environmental Protection covers a very wide area, touching virtually all departments, more or less. In my own debate, I would also touch on one area, namely agriculture, organic farming, which I associate with the climate fund. In the first point, I would like to say that many of these funds are also unused, and that is sad. If there are problems, why not extend them to other areas? In the end, organic agriculture is certainly an integral part of this, as it also solves this area, and this is very strong, and also high targets are set there and funding is lacking. Next. I refer the starting points to 182, and above all to 183rd section of the Environmental Protection Act, which very details these areas. As a first call for the climate fund, which is fuelled by the sale of emission vouchers on companies, we should also focus on the development of organic agriculture under the auspices of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. This is the basis for why I stress this or suggest it. In the law itself, we did not see any particular mention of this area. Of course, organic agriculture must play an important role in strategies and adaptation to climate change, and we have also proposed it in the context of technical assistance for accommodating services. I'll say one more thing in the end. Environmental farming, after all relevant research, actually results in improved soil structure, of course by higher concentrations of organic matter and increased soil aggregation. Of course, it is also concerned about biodiversity, which is expected to increase by at least 30%. It has smaller greenhouse gas emissions, on average by 40 %, even multiple in some areas. It reduces nitrate and pesticide levels in groundwater. In water protection areas, organic farming is the only appropriate agricultural practice. It is also the most suitable form of agriculture for other protected and sensitive areas, such as Natura 2000. Environmental food consumption and transport are increasing or we have very high targets here. The transition to organic farming plays a key role for LMEs in innovative practices for the transfer of practical knowledge and it is therefore necessary to strengthen the advisory service for organic agriculture at national level. And that's where our proposal is, in the context of technical assistance, this should be implemented and linked. As early as 2020, the Agriculture Ministry found that one of the main problems is the human resources sub-nutrition and operationality of agricultural advisory services. To this end, an agreement has also been reached with the Environment Ministry to establish an accelerant service to be financed by the Climate Change Fund. The establishment of an advisory service for organic agriculture, quality advisory services or the establishment of a specific national service is crucial, in particular, in terms of the allocation of public funds in the future, which will certainly have to go to the benefit of agricultural economies that will work towards co-natural and sustainable farming. There's already been an initiative. We are not only driven by climate change but also by the European Green Agreement to promote organic agriculture. It's all connected. By the year, the EU and Slovenia want to grow on a quarter of all agricultural land. [[Incomprehensible]] These are objectives that are virtually impossible to achieve, so it is essential to cooperate with you in this area in order to have those effects. This is why, as we have found out from the outset, all funds have not even been used in the past. The definition and financing of organic agriculture in the climate fund will increase the possibility of achieving this goal at all, as we said in the defined action plan for the development of organic agriculture, to be organically farmed to 18% of agricultural land by 2027 and to achieve 10% of organic farms. This will mean about 350 farms and even 4,000 800 hectares a year. Without an increase in the share of farms in the redirection, the challenge will be even higher and should reach the 2013 level when these farms were set at 36.5% and in 2020 only 9. That's what you're saying. We're going the other way. But this is one of the main goals — to do something about it. That's it. In the LMŠ, I also asked the Ministry of Agriculture at the third point as a Member, which was last April, where we also asked whether the creation of a dedicated eco-agricultural promotion service funded by the Climate Fund under the technical assistance measure was still among the measures to promote organic farming. If so, what can we expect as a start? And we have received a concrete response that the Ministry has long sent you this initiative and is a proposal to finance the promotion of organic farming through the Climate Fund. "But we have not yet received a final decision on this matter," we were replied last May. Today, Minister, I ask you firsthand, is this matter already being answered, is it resolved, is this cooperation already in place? Is that possible? If not, I'm re-initiating. I certainly want to stress, because this is the first reading before the next reading with the amendments, and then complete this law and include in any way the agricultural area of organic farming so that these objectives can also be achieved there. That's certainly worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you, too. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Of course, measures such as organic agriculture or measures to reduce CO2 or emissions anywhere in the first paragraph of Article 183, which states that these are all measures used in particular to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and so on. That's what they say. We're not doing this in sectors right now, in sectors. If this is the case in agriculture or in the economy or anywhere, it falls under it. When we look at the adopted climate fund action programme, we see that we have about €3 million for two content, climate change mitigation and forestry adaptation measures, which is not the case, and about €3 million for climate change mitigation and adaptation measures in agriculture is €7 million allocated here. So what you're saying is true. The Climate Fund is intended to finance measures that contribute to reducing emissions in agriculture, whether it is eco-economy or any other agriculture, of course, is more of a resource. But for this we have a basis in marriage and also in this novel, that is in this new law and also in the program. But it is true that the problem is more of an absorption. Dear Member, I am not in favour of establishing the new bureaucratic bodies you are referring to, some centres and so on. We already have some infrastructure in agriculture, we have a Agricultural Forestry Chamber with its so-called agricultural – all over Slovenia with its experts working on the ground, and I think it is sufficient infrastructure for these measures. If we're going to double and set up some centres here, I don't think we're going to make much of a contribution to the rational use of money from the climate fund, and if there's any money for bureaucracy, it's not going to be for action. So I am more in favour of the measures and effective work of existing services in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The replica has Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much for that answer. That's all I have to explain. You must have misunderstood me. Our concrete proposal is to provide technical assistance to existing agricultural promotion services. Nothing new, just this way. They're qualified to do that, and they don't need any extra. Of course it comes to the end user. It is said that this law is very demanding, wide and we need to find ways for organic farmers to feel that it is useful and that these results in organic farming will start to improve, to increase, not to fall now. If we have a 25% target in one decade to achieve this goal, there is a lot of cooperation to be achieved, and that is why these accelerant technical services are the ones who need to be able to pass it on to users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you, too. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. If I spoke as my eternal colleagues before me, I should say five times to the Social Democrat, and seven times to Maribor, in the meantime, to tell me where I was running and where I was going to run. I'm going to run where I live, where people can meet me on the street, and one of them praises me, one of them reproaches me, and so on. If you've read this law seriously, I think it's an absolutely wrong approach. Why? Although I have been living in the White Land for 30 years now, of course, I would like the whole story around Krupa never to happen, I want the story around Krupa, I don't know, to settle, to heal, but it won't be for long. Because someone could also understand the execution of most people from the coalition as well as some from the opposition. We probably all want to solve the environmental problem in the territory of the entire Republic of Slovenia, which is also our duty, which is in fact our shiht, according to our own words. After all, we're not that kind of planner. My colleague Moškrič is probably not just sticking to his part of Ljubljana, he's going around. A little joke, a little bit, if he invited any neighbors, he'd be able to drink that letter, or how they wanted to change the packaging. Second story. All those who have worked with space and environment in our lives know that accommodations in space last decades rather than years ago. Whoever the government is here, whoever gets puffed up, our government is everything, in front of me nobody is anything, in Serbian they say – what is it? — before me, after me, the flood is, personally, such puffs who do not deserve to sit in the National Assembly, no matter what customers they come from. Personally, I think that by somehow solving one of these difficult materials quickly, we will do more harm than good. In particular, coalition Members, all of you are now somehow calling, let's get this done as soon as possible, let's get this resolved, even though colleague Moskrič has said very well, yes, and then we will have another reading to come to the committee and we will have a concrete hearing. If I were to bring out some of my parliamentary questions that I've been asking in this term over 900, there would be too much theater here. In good faith, although I am not a member of the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee in this reference, in the past I was the most active member of this committee, I must admit that I have cut my ears when certain people started sending me some e-mails in conjunction with Articles 28, 29. Some gentleman – those who know this area – is certainly more than likely a gentleman who was the best secretary of state in this area, Radovan Tauzes, points out this issue, even arguing that it is contrary to the European directive, because it is somehow written, if I translate into human language, some too easy criteria for deciding when some matter ends the status of waste, if I put it that way. There's some legitimate fear. The minister will probably say there are no problems, but we have just too much experience in Slovenia. My colleagues listed them, and I could list them myself, but even though I'm not running for office, I didn't run for office in that eczema of Maribor, including the pollution of our beautiful botanical garden with some wild delay, some of the stories of a gentleman who was a life project to him. I met him at a bookstore in Maribor once by accident. In short, I have some dumpling in my throat, if I put it this way, because I think that this top bureaucrat is not someone who works in the way of a grandmother's index, or let's just give it a little bit, because there might be another political option – but I don't know, I hope that, Minister, you won't feel personally threatened – and from some Dolenjski Toplice, he'll get a ticket if I do a little cartooning. But if I come back, it's a difficult problem, and it's a problem that we've had a little bit of domestic waste management. Some here used the whole word cream mafia, but, you know, we're not dealing enough with the input of this legislation. Man is an unauthentic entropy creature. In our own words, we are born a little too early because mothers would die during childbirth if they were more developed and we need too much energy to produce garbage. We're gonna have to start dealing with this. We're spinning, I don't know what kind of government it is, here, if I get these unfortunate candles -- I mean, baptized mother, let's just say, pollution isn't a pathetic act. Pika. Of course, there are some people who live from this festivities, let us give a relatively fast transition period to make it easy to stop. In order to be otherwise packed, to express a fifth to those who are no longer among us at other times on all sacred sites. And we're going around in circles, I don't know how long. We're gonna have to settle this mud one day, too. We will probably also have to set up a circle in which certain garbage is driven, but not, I don't know, from one end of Slovenia to the other end of Slovenia. Then you CEROs and stories like that, one big stunt. It seems to me that we would still need a diverse and responsible policy here, because despite the fact that there has been more chatter than the last two years in this national council, I don't know, I don't allow Janša to be a byte, I don't know what, three tons of mercury. I don't think he does either. Or, I don't know. At least I can say for myself, I don't look at other people's heads. I also don't know if it's a smart move to break up a group of lawyers working on this issue at the department, which they also have to substantively specialize in – of course, the minister is already working with his head – but something is being done in making one professor, with all due respect for him. You know, the smallest NGO has a rule of at least four, if not six eyes, if there's a negotiation. In short, I have too many clues, with some bad taste in my mouth about it all together. Don't let the minister blame me. This law shows very clearly, and some of the experience we have, that taxes are still important and that tax policy will also need to guide these matters. However, this will be easier to guide with tax policy when we somehow raise GDP. I must say that the Social Democrats have written here some serious proposal for a programme for the next decade, or if you want to go somewhere by 2035. I'm still waiting for everyone else's programs. Not because we want to have programs before the elections, but because we want to get serious. And the operationality of some programs. In order not to steal, the former Minister of Agriculture will say when he comes to the point, why there is a whole series of problems in what Jozko has been doing in good faith. I'll stop at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Tadej Šuštar Zalar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. The Environmental Protection Act 2 regulates most of the issues only in a framework, which is positive in terms of transparency, and will continue to be regulated by a number of sub-legislative acts. The provisions of the Environmental Protection Act 2 are a set of legal rules which, with a few exceptions, transpose the requirements of Directives of the European Union which are the basis for the sub-legislative transposition of a number of other Directives, while in some cases the law also contains certain grounds for the adoption of sub-legislative acts which adopt rules for the implementation of individual European Union regulations. For example, the competence to manage units of allocated annual emissions is governed by law and not by sub-legislative acts. The objectives of the circular economy and sustainable development are also taken into account, which I can only welcome. Acquisition of environmental permits is prescribed only for certain pollutants, which is good for reducing administrative procedures and less for the consistent prevention of harmful emissions. It may be problematic to regulate areas of environmental restriction in order to regulate them under different strict regimes within areas. An important novelty is also the fact that the role and position of the public concerned and the party’s participation in the administrative procedure and the eligibility of the action in the administrative dispute are otherwise regulated. In the administrative procedure for the authorisation, even if they may make their comments and views, non-governmental organisations in the public interest referred to in Article 237(1) and the civil initiative shall not have the position of a party to the procedure. Notwithstanding the above, they are entitled to bring an action against the environmental consent granted. The law also lays the groundwork for governments to prescribe environmental pollution benefits designed to internalise the costs of pollution incurred by society as a whole. However, the power to deal more in detail with relevant issues is left to the Government with a slightly different dictatorship than in the Environmental Protection Act 1. The same applies to the greenhouse gas emission trading system set out in the framework of the European Union. In the field of waste management, the law provides the basis for determining behaviours that do not require an environmental permit, but merely reporting certain practices that are not related to a specific administrative decision. This can be referred to as a decommissioning of administrative bodies, which we support, of course, because we want less red tape. On the other hand, this will not reverse the effectiveness of waste management. The disadvantage of this proposal is that the environmental response rights of the public are not counted among the stakeholders, as they are most familiar with environmental issues and also with data on infringements. It would therefore make sense to include them. I think that these changes, or the law on environmental protection, are also in line with most NGOs, as I have not noticed much of the comments on this topic. Of course I support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with a co-worker! Today there is a law before us, which, at least my opinion is one of the most important, if not the most important, respected minister in your department in this mandate. Let me go back a little while ago, almost two years. When you had hearing, I remember your words, we all agreed with you, even those we had in the previous term in the National Assembly, including in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, you said that one part of Slovenia would have to be cleaned first, especially in the context of landfills, where our respected firefighters and firefighters were also greatly credited because they had to intercede over time, in these landfills or warehouses in those environments where the waste was burning, they did not create an even greater disaster for the environment. Members and Members of the coalition in particular, we have supported your work throughout this term. At times, we have heard some criticisms on the other hand, mostly criticisms that I don't think were justified. Why am I saying this? Because it is extremely important that you, as Minister of Environment and Space in the Republic of Slovenia, with all your colleagues, secretary of state and co-workers at the Ministry, persisted and brought in this law, which touches the protection of the environment. An extremely important law is now on the benches of the National Assembly. Without the main concerns of the opposition parties that it is necessary to have a public debate, this law would probably be much longer. But nothing, I'm happy today, after listening to the views of the members of the groups. I am pleased that this difficult law is supported by the majority of the parliamentary groups in this first reading. I know that we have a great responsibility together, including on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. Dear Minister, I assure you that we will do so as soon as possible, as I guarantee you, as President of this committee, at the March meeting of this National Assembly. But this can't be just a wish. This is not our wish, but it is our duty — that this law, in which so much effort and expertise has been put into place, even finance, should come into force as soon as possible. Not that it will be a government achievement. As I said on behalf of the SDS – Slovenian Democratic Party – this is important for Slovenia, for all those living in the Republic of Slovenia, for our children, and especially for those not yet born who are coming, for our descendants. As I recall, there were no answers to these difficult questions in the Government and also in the Government of Marjan Šarc. However, I believe in our parliamentary group that, even in all the other parliamentary groups, various institutions dealing with these wastes have come into existence, the municipal chamber. I have to be perfectly honest, and many times after that, we didn't know where the way out was, so it wouldn't burn up in any of these warehouses every week. In short, I must commend your work. Today we are talking about the law on environmental protection. Above all, the Minister, I am interested, I hear, too, it has ever occurred to me that all those who in the past have dealt with and are also dealing with these wastes today write a variety of letters, one that is pleased with this law that is soon to come into force, the other disappointed, have other ideas. I have also had several concerns that those involved do not always work for the benefit of citizens and citizens in this area. In short, here I would like your answer, whether at this stage, when this law is in adoption, the concerns of those who are involved in it. Above all, I would like to mention that I think today by Ambassador Janja Slug – we have recently had a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley. I just happened to be in the town of Celje after this meeting. I meet Mr Celjan, who has been living in Celje for 85 years and cannot agree in any way with what Ambassador Janja Slug said — that Celje is a poisoned city. I myself have also warned as chairman of this meeting that we must not allow this to happen in this national assembly. However, I would like, Madam Minister, to say that you have done a great deal in this area, especially your mandate, in the field of pollution in the areas where it is. So thank you. Because I come from the Celje region, thanks here too. As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as I see, I even feel like this is getting worse. We are all warned, all companies, when we receive invoices or invoices, private individuals, we receive letters if this can be sent electronically, which I think is extremely good. Also, as far as schools are concerned, it is increasingly in electronic form. In short, all responsible institutions in the Republic of Slovenia are aware of environmental problems, so that each product or product produces some consequences. Recently, I was at a meeting of Slovenian farmers as well as those who then produce their products, and I was concerned when I heard information about how much it took traders to keep us informed by consumers every day. Of course, when I come home myself, I often see so full of these advertisements that the mailman, of course, the respected mailman who comes every day, can't even put all these ads in the mailbox. In short, I would like to point out if there is any possibility that we might be thinking about it. I'm sure he's going to tons of inquality paper, printing ink. I suppose, I suppose, it's a burden for the dairy community as well. In short, the consumer who goes to the store every day realizes that he knows that he will get yogurt or milk or chocolate in that store. I don't think we should have this in drawers every day, and as a result, we are also causing environmental problems. Minister, I must conclude that I am pleased today that this law on environmental protection is on our tables. I'm glad you're working with your coworkers, too. This is an indicator of the debate of all Members and Members. There weren't enough of those comments. I think he's waiting for us to add something to the committee to make it better. In short, I would like, Minister, that all together, and all the esteemed Members and Members of this National Assembly, to do everything we can, because this marriage in March of this year, 2022, will be an achievement in the National Assembly. However, we must be aware of the citizens and citizens and all those in this national assembly that we are changing the law today and that, as a result, we will have to change a little in some areas. If we succeed, this quality law, of course, to change in some areas, will be significantly different in Slovenia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you, too. There's a replica of Rudy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Podkoršek, just so much to explain when you say that in the field of the problem of waste packaging in the government of Marjan Šarc nothing has moved that nothing has happened and that they have walked, I don't know, people from Pontius to Pilate, but there was no listening. I must tell you that of course this is not true, and you yourself know that this is not true. I was at a government meeting where Prime Minister Marjan Sarec ordered the environmental minister to arrange for the transport of this waste packaging, which has accumulated, as you know, on municipal landfills. And that's what happened then. It is true, however, that the invitation to tender for the removal of waste candles was a problem. There was an administrative complication and in the end, none of the tenderers met the conditions. This may have been a purely bureaucratic thing or whatever, but the emergency disposal of these wastes was organized. Minister Vizjak knows exactly – and soon after his term here I challenged him in this Chamber – that the contracts with the contractors, who will then carry out this intervention transport, were very long on his desk. After that, they were also relatively soon signed. I know that at the time I asked the directors of the commune why nothing was moving, where it was stuck, and everyone in line told me that the matter was arranged to wait for the signing of contracts at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Then the minister signed them, and then some of this intervention truck went up, as you can see, and the problem is still not solved. The problem is still not solved. They still have a lot of waste packaging on municipal landfills all over Slovenia. Well, she was solving the former government, she's solving this government, but the problem is still there.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Replica, Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you, Vice President. In some areas, I may not have been fully understood, but I would have refreshed. I know that in this area a lot of people have been making their best efforts, including you, Mr Bear, at the time, also your President. I didn't really think anything was done, but you know, the big difference is whether something is being saved or saved from year to year, but nothing is being solved. I have to tell you, if I remind you that when Minister Vizjak had a hearing, the main theme of these questions was most of the questions about how we're going to clean up these landfills. In short, there we all came together, and then to the new opposition we as a coalition that nothing was done in this area. So I thanked the Minister for his perseverance, he cleaned it, and today there is a law on the table that will regulate it in the future. Don't be offended. One is to save, save, save, work, do, do nothing. The results show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Members! You have touched on the problem of solving the municipal mixed packaging that remains in public service warehouses. When I took over this facility less than two years ago, more than 50% remained, all the municipal mixed packaging did not take over the packaging company and remained in storage. Today, about 20% of this still exists, even though we have taken quite a few measures. Let me remind you, the Environmental Protection Act 1J was passed, it seems to me that about November, when it was the first time that packaging companies were obliged to pick up all the waste packaging from storage in order to collect everything. Then we also amended the regulation to eliminate that 15-tonne limit. In fact, until this amendment to the Regulation, which was adopted some year ago, all those who had placed less than 15 tonnes of packaging on the market annually did not pay for any packaging. And then you're surprised there was still packaging. And that's why we put it at zero. Everyone has to pay for the package and, as a result, there is more money paid by those who put waste essentially on the market and this money is treated, of course, once it is collected. Waste cannot be addressed through intervention laws. The waste problem had to be addressed systematically according to the PRO principle, the producer pays and the manufacturer is financially and organisationally responsible for the waste it gives. That's what this law is about. For the area of all waste streams, which are more, you mentioned candles here is waste packaging, then there are tires, medical, agricultural products and so on. That's a miracle. We foresee one organisation, unlike the efforts of current organisations or companies to deal with waste packaging that would like to remain competition. However, competition in the area of profit and price is not the main objective of environmental protection and environmental objectives, but it is a priority to get as little money as possible and to collect this package, not all of it, to leave something in storage, and the country or municipality will pick it up. I was, as you know, an economic minister. If I'm defending anything, I'm defending the market and the competition. However, when we come to the waste field, where economic operators do not follow environmental logic and environmental objectives, those dealing with waste packaging, but of course the objective of profit and various other economic interests for the owner, it is clear that we must put environmental objectives at the forefront. And this excuses one organisation for one waste stream, which will also ensure that all waste is treated properly, and will also ensure that environmental objectives are improved, as it will keep an eye on all this. That is why the law on environmental protection will finally make order. I am sure that also an important part of those hearings that caused me to falsify the interpellation came exactly from this arrangement. As some economic operators, I myself have called them the waste mafia, this is not in the interest of having millions of not-year-olds or actually having to pursue environmental objectives more than their profits in the long term. Of course, there are letters from these offending societies coming to you from Members, including some foreign people who would like to have status quo. Once again, what the European Commission is proposing in this area has also been crucial to us. In fact, it is basically one organisation, but it can also be more, it no longer prohibits organizations, but it is basically one. For such a small economy as Slovenia, which is a two-million-dollar market, compared to other comparable countries, the practice is that for one waste stream, there is one organisation that I think will also be a marriage and grenade to achieve environmental objectives. However, we have not achieved that the waste management trend, these waste streams, will improve because it will be in her interest. But it's a non-profit organisation set up by manufacturers, so those who give, the state has nothing to do with it. In the case of several organisations, however, the state should set up an agency to oversee this and break down bureaucraticly among these masters who would blur the reality. This is also said in terms of de-de-birocratisation, a better solution for one organisation than more.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The last speaker on the list is Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, my classmates and colleagues, a very nice greeting! New Slovenia – we are already essentially committed to protecting the environment. I am very close to the text in the CDU program, where they talk about the protection of creation, and I am joining it myself. By the way, we too have fallen for Mr Juret Lebne, he has convinced us, and we see that the result of that intervention law is null and void. I absolutely agree with the minister, who says: “We cannot protect the environment with intervention laws.” We will not do everything with this law either, or we will do very little about the upbringing, the upbringing of our children, of our next generation, which we owe to them in good condition. Here is the task of education, which begins first in the family, primary school and so on. Unfortunately, I have very few opportunities to walk with my wife on Sunday walks, and my heart is breaking when I see in a beautiful village in the roadside ditches – otherwise there, but it hurts — bottles, cans and so on. And then I always get an association to an old Slovenian proverb Where a donkey lies, it leaves hair there. This proverb is very much linked to environmental protection. What does this marriage bring now? I don't have enough time and it's already been pre-debate, but before I go on, I want to say that I am extremely glad that we have many organizational forms within our New Slovenia party – Christian Democrats, Economic Club, Women's Union and so on, and that we have recently established a Green Alliance. At the first meeting of the Conference Zoom there were more than 200 participants, including exceptional experts, known Slovenian names. That's very encouraging. This Green Connection is established and strongly engaged in designing our environmental, if you want, program or electoral program. I am pleased that the new Environmental Protection Act, ZVO-2, brings new solutions to the most pressing environmental problems, such as irresponsible waste management for all of us. In the field of waste, this Act provides for a new comprehensive treatment of waste, including the establishment of basic rules on waste management, the conditions and criteria for the cessation of waste status and the regulation of the PRO system, which is the producer's extended liability or more domestically, the producer should pay. We are confident that this law will lay new and healthy foundations for the producer's extended liability system, in which waste packaging is also covered, in order to be efficient, transparent and cost-effective. To this end, the law will determine only one non-profit organisation for each mass flow of waste – the minister said that two or three can do it, and this matter must of course be rationally organised – looking for the best bidders on behalf of producers. I also wanted to raise here the questions raised by esteemed colleague Bojan Podkoršek – what will happen to those companies that have been dealing with the data to date, from this moment forward. But if things work well in Belgium, in the Czech Republic and so on, then why should we rediscover hot water if it is already discovered? My colleague and colleagues have already announced support for this law in the first reading, and I believe that we will further optimize it through the parliamentary procedure on the committee. I want to thank the Minister. There's been a lot of work done, a lot of coordination. I hope it'll be a result. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I have one minute left. First of all, I just want to say that I probably wasn't very understanding. Honourable Member Joseph Horvat, for a single mass flow, one organisation is no longer possible. But there are multiple mass currents, so for each mass flow another organisation can be able to do so. But one mass flow has one organization just because it's not a breach at the expense of environmental goals. Dear Members and Members, after this general debate, which is nearing the end, I am pleased to see the first reading of the law with the most envious support that we have in the second reading of some corrections. In particular, I see a great deal of agreement in the bailout system. The government supports the introduction of the bail system. We will, of course, also shed additional light on the reasons and conditions for the cessation of waste status, as the Member of the Social Democrats has also pointed out. I am pleased that we have been able to bring this law into line with the most important work of the non-governmental sector as well as the economy. That's a good second reading trip. Once again, I ask you to adopt this law in this mandate of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since there is still time for discussion, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I see that there is no interest, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Friday, i.e. tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 43 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Diane the Jew. With regard to this bill, the Group of 12 Members and Members of the First-signed Matjaž Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u138	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, distinguished Members, Mr Minister with co-worker, other present, well-known! In 2020, two prominent Slovenian lawyers wrote: "In the European Union, occupational diseases are measured as a percentage and are comparable to the number of injuries at work. In Slovenia, occupational diseases are measured at intervals. The competent authorities of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, despite the clear guidelines of the last 20 years, are in fact avoiding the identification of occupational diseases and individuals are paying insurance both in health care and in a pension insurance company.” The authors also point out that the institution should identify procedures under official responsibility, but does not carry out them, and not least, the non-recognition of occupational diseases to workers causes harm not only by having a low dose of disability pension, but also by not being able to sue, and also by not improving working conditions. I myself ran into occupational diseases in the office where the lady – her case I know best – described my story: 20 years of sewing, inadequate conditions, inadequate work, inadequate exercise, resulting in invalidity pension due to injury or serious injury to my spine. Since professional diseases are no longer recognised in Slovenia, however, the lady, instead of having a calculation as prescribed for occupational diseases in the legislation, in order to take account of all working hours, not only in real terms, agreed to a disability pension of just over €200. At the time, I had the opportunity, even though I am working alone in an area that is not a social area, but is another area that I began to deepen into the problem. As a result of this deepening, many interviews with trade unions, lawyers and also with representatives of the profession, it has been evident that we have actually signed all the conventions, that we report to the European Union that our system is not working, but that it is not working. That's what ordinary numbers say. Look at the example of two forms of insurance being paid. That's what the numbers say. In the countries of the European Union where they also claim that it is regulated, it is noted that about one third of disability pensions are so-called occupational disability pensions. This in practice means that if we have in Slovenia – the approximate information is, it is already a while old – 75 000 invalid pensions, of which 25,000 should be more favourable to workers and workers. But they're not here. They're less than 200. There should be 25,000 of them. If a year in Slovenia goes to a disability pension of a thousand 500, a thousand 700, a thousand 800 people, there should be 500, 600 and up to 800 recognized as a disabled person, but there is not. We're talking about numbers that are 20, 30, 40, 50. Well, there's no doubt that the system doesn't work. Mrs Milojka Kolar, the competent minister, came forward with a solution when she prepared what I now have in hand. This is a rule on occupational diseases, but unfortunately because of the shorter mandate and opposition of many, it has not been adopted. This regulation refers to Article 68 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which states that the law for which the lawyers have informed her that the reference to the law is such that the law does not have sufficient support with the articles themselves in the law. But the reference is to Article 68 of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act. Why am I saying this? Because when we started looking for a solution together with trade unions, lawyers and professionals, the goal was simple – to make a solid enough legal basis so that a regulation that is prepared and is on the table of the competent minister and his State secretaries can be adopted. Now everyone's reading, saying it's not the right law, it's not written in a language like it's supposed to be. I'll take it all. I have letters from the competent ministers. But then I ask the opposite. If you can write better, why didn't you write it? So before us is an attempt to help people, with a modest request — allow us to come to the committee so that all we need to do is complement, upgrade, do whatever is wise to ensure that the people who pay the insurance will not be harmed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u140	Madam President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you a proposal for a law that, according to the proposaler, regulates the conditions for easier and faster identification and certification of occupational diseases in the Republic of Slovenia. The applicants note that Slovenia has ratified the international conventions governing the area of the system of recognition of occupational diseases and that it has a compulsory health and compulsory pension and disability insurance in case of occupational illness and injury at work, but workers of those rights should not be able to exercise in practice, as they cannot prove that they have a occupational disease. Slovenia does not have a regulation laying down the legal procedure for the recognition of occupational diseases, which should only rarely be recognised or confirmed in Slovenia and consequently the extent of recognised occupational diseases is very low. The proposers therefore propose amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to achieve the adoption of legislation that will facilitate the identification and certification of occupational diseases in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to that proposal, I would like to clarify in the introduction that the Government, while agreeing that the current arrangements for the identification and certification of occupational diseases are no longer appropriate and that it is necessary to redefine the procedure for the certification of occupational diseases as soon as possible, but not in the proposed manner, but in the manner provided for in Article 68(2), second paragraph, which sets out the arrangements for this issue within the framework of the health insurance rules. The Government of that proposal cannot therefore support and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration, since the content regulated is not included in the relevant law. It is not technically appropriate to regulate the field of health insurance in substance in the law on pension and disability insurance. We believe that the system of pension and disability insurance is already excessive and extensive and that the regulation of occupational diseases under the pension scheme would result in additional non-consistentness. 68. Article PPIZ-2 regulates only the definition of occupational disease and provides a legal basis for the rights which may be recognised on this basis from pension and disability insurance, but does not constitute an appropriate place for the substantive management of the health insurance problem. Only recognition of occupational diseases and rights arising from this title is primarily regulated in the health insurance system, as decided by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance as the institution of compulsory health insurance. The decision-making process thus primarily recognises health insurance rights and then disability rights. The government of the bill cannot support it either because the content of this proposal is not aligned with the social partners in the context of social dialogue. It notes that the draft law summarises the arrangements for the identification and certification of occupational diseases, the establishment of the competent authority of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the costs of the procedure for identifying, certifying and reporting occupational diseases as set out in the proposal for a rules on occupational diseases already submitted by the Ministry of Health in 2018, and has been discussed before in the Economic and Social Council. There was no agreement in the context of the social dialogue on the content of the Regulation. In this respect, we do not consider that the legal regulation of the non-harmonised content of the Regulation is appropriate. In the light of all the above and given the very flat-rate and unreasonable assessment of the financial consequences of the proposed regulation, the Government cannot support and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word, Mr Vojko Starović. He will present the seat of the SAB Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u142	Madam President, thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Part of effective healthcare, which is considered to be a country's priority in the SAB, is not only accessibility to health services, but also appropriate procedures for the recognition of occupational disease rights where workers pay. This is why the Group supports today's topic, which has been on the table for years. The way occupational diseases are currently regulated in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is inappropriate and substandard. The fact is that workers and workers are entitled to insurance for occupational diseases only on paper. However, the application of these rights is impossible, as there is no relevant provision laying down the legal procedure for the recognition of diseases as professional. We are pleased that this issue, which has been awaiting regulation for many years, will finally be resolved in an appropriate manner. The novelty before us today thus defines the concept of occupational disease and the procedure for its identification, including the powers and responsibilities of individual stakeholders in the process. It is a small step, but it will mean a lot to those who have such recognition of a professional illness. The right to recognition of a professional disability pension will thus be granted to a wider group of disabled persons. The novelty thus lays down the method of identification of occupational disease, the procedure for the identification of occupational disease, the method of certification of occupational disease, the expert body of the healthcare community and its tasks, as well as the costs of the procedure for the identification, verification and reporting of occupational diseases. The Ministry of Health has prepared a solution for professional diseases years ago, but it is stuck in adoption. Therefore, in the SAB Group of Members and other members of the democratic opposition, in cooperation with the trade unions supporting the amendment, we have tabled a proposal extending the article defining occupational diseases in a way that this regulation can be adopted. The fact that there were only 21 cases of occupational diseases in 2020 is also evident from the fact that there were only 21 cases. The adoption of the proposal will thus take a major step towards the end of a period in which the existence of occupational diseases, with the exception of asbestos, is practically unknown in Slovenia. The identification of occupational diseases is also essential for the adoption of measures to prevent them. If we don't find them, we don't know what to prevent. The fact is that the modern, work-related diseases are somehow overlooked in us, which is also highlighted by the medical profession. The number of occupational or work-related diseases is increasing so much, especially skin diseases, respiratory diseases, and back problems and limbs are common. Many, however, delay their visit to a doctor because they fear that he will lose his job. Therefore, in the SAB, despite some concerns that this law does not regulate matters properly, we support the proposal, as it provides a higher standard of rights for workers in practice and not just on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Safe and healthy jobs and the well-being of workers contribute to the economic efficiency of the economy, to general social well-being and, last but not least, to the sustainability of social goods. It is therefore an effective guarantee of safety and health at work without accidents, occupational diseases related to work, national interest, the right of workers and the obligation of employers. Occupational diseases are an important indicator of the negative health of workers and reflect the health risks of the worker in the workplace. They are particularly important because the same exposure is likely to cause disease in more workers. If a occupational disease is detected in a timely manner and immediately initiates preventive measures, occupational diseases in other employees in the same or similar jobs may also be completely prevented or at least significantly affected. Although this is required by legislation, the detection of occupational diseases in Slovenia has stopped since 1990. The current list of occupational diseases is outdated and the procedure for identifying and recognising occupational diseases is not at all appropriate. The real dimension of the problem of occupational diseases is probably undervalued by us hundreds of times compared to what official data reveal. In the Desus Group, we see the proposed novelty of the pension law as a well-meaning attempt to lay the right foundation for the procedure for detecting occupational diseases. We are convinced that the law would be worthy of support if it were addressed and regulated in a place where it is of primary origin. It should be borne in mind that the primary basis for the exercise of the right from disability insurance is first the right to be recognised for health reasons. The identification and recognition of this right requires a thorough verification process and extensive medical treatment. In our view, the content regulated by the proposer in the pension and disability law would suggest putting into another law, namely the Health and Health Insurance Act. We also note that the content of the draft law in short form is summarised in the 2018 proposal for a regulation on occupational diseases, which has not been adopted due to non-compliance with the social partners. The way of this regulation, which we believe was basically good and after many years of efforts by the medical profession, would be sufficient for the process of identifying occupational diseases to finally run, as they do elsewhere in Europe, to be completed due to the opposition of employers. Although we will decide on the fate of this law tomorrow, in our parliamentary group, we will, on the basis of the fundamental, already-exposed concern that we have with regard to the placement of content under the auspices of the wrong law, decide after the debate. Before we turn on the green light so long-awaited, we also want to hear the response of the competent ministers to whether the text would have been submitted, even though in the wrong law, it has ensured a comprehensive and effective implementation of the procedure for the verification of occupational diseases, since otherwise a poor spouse can further make the exercise of rights from disability more difficult, which we do not want to do. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. He will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, esteemed Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! According to the World Health Organization in the European Union, more than 300,000 people die each year from occupational diseases. There is no official assessment in Slovenia, since professional diseases, except asbestos, have not been detected or prevented for almost three decades. I am probably not exaggerating if I make an assessment that this is extremely irresponsible and almost embarrassing, because we do not have the right legal basis for this, because former competent health ministers should have set up a new list of occupational diseases by the end of 2014 and the adoption of the regulation has not yet taken place. Therefore, an outdated and unused Regulation, which is practically a dead letter on paper, is used. This is still the case in the 2003 Professional Diseases List, and only about 30 occupational diseases have been recognised per year, even though it has been in the past for several years to warn us that we need a new rules on occupational diseases, in which a new procedure should be laid down primarily for their verification, and that the number of occupational diseases at annual level is somewhat ten times higher than that recorded in official statistics. This prevailing situation was the reason why in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we contributed signatures to amend the pension law to provide a legal basis for the recognition of occupational diseases. A country of occupational illness, working for decades, has been losing its grip. It seems that bureaucratic negligence, which we can also translate into a lack of political will to address this issue. Apparently, the current situation has also benefited from a failed social dialogue, in which the social partners have not unified themselves on the issue of covering the costs associated with occupational diseases. Clearly, it is no different than we are trying to resolve this with the intervention of the legislator. The government opposes the proposal of the law by arguing that it would be necessary to cut into health legislation instead of pension legislation, although a lack of regulation in the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance does not make it necessary to enforce the necessary sub-law, the rules on occupational diseases. According to the Government, health legislation is the one under which the method and procedure for the identification of occupational diseases, the determination of the method of certification and the implementing authority, the coverage of costs, and so on. Even if that is true, we wonder why this has not yet been done. It is ironic, in its opinion, that the Government concludes that they are nevertheless committed to regulating as quickly as possible the procedure for the verification of occupational diseases, which will be comparable to other countries of the European Union. I therefore ask the Government here what it will do to regulate this area by the end of its term of office. When can we expect amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act in the legislative procedure? The responsible people seem to be aware of the problem, but to this day they have not acted. We are temporarily lagging far behind, but the reality is that the inadequate legal basis, instead of identifying occupational diseases, makes it virtually impossible for workers to obtain disability pensions and compensations that belong to them as professional patients. The result of failure to recognize a professional disease is the failure to pay a disability, since a person who has become disabled by doing his job receives a significantly higher disability than one who is disabled for other reasons. It should be pointed out that the special chapter in occupational diseases is cancer, even though the State currently recognises in practice only lung cancer caused by exposure to asbestos. Not to mention modern - day, work - related diseases that are neglected in our country. The number of occupational diseases or parts of related skin diseases and respiratory diseases is increasing. Shires, maids, and even those who sit in front of the computer may have great problems with their spines and hands because of repeated movements. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will, of course, support the proposal to conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration. The existing system of non-availability of occupational diseases and non-action of the state must be stopped and citizens should be allowed fair treatment and recognition of occupational diseases. Let the lack of the will of bureaucrats and politicians end. This is too important a problem to be left to the will of anyone, and at least to those who are most responsible for the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Joseph Lenart. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u148	Good day again! Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. We are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2M, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dejan Židan. Health is our greatest wealth, it cannot be disputed, so it is necessary to take care of the health of every individual, especially the worker, and consequently that society is as a whole of good health. The State of Slovenia, together with other Member States of the European Union, has a system for the recognition of occupational diseases, as this is required of us by the ratified ILO Conventions. In Slovenia, therefore, the International Conventions on Compensation for Occupational Diseases, Accidents and Occupational Diseases and the Labour Services Convention apply. Under these international conventions, i.e. the International Labour Organization, Slovenia also has compulsory pension disability insurance and compulsory health insurance for occupational diseases and occupational injury currently covered by the CFSP and the ZPIZ-2. These laws provide professionally disabled workers with a higher standard of rights than in cases of illness and injury outside work. Applicants point out that workers cannot enforce these rights in practice, as we do not have a regulation laying down a legal procedure for the recognition of a professional disease, so they cannot prove in practice that they have a occupational disease. The applicants state that the data show that we have a large number of undetected occupational diseases in Slovenia since 1991, which workers do not know are occupational diseases, and that the extent of recognised occupational diseases is very low compared to other European Union members. Because of these undiscovered and unrecognized occupational diseases, workers are in a worse position because they have become more difficult to employ or even unemployed. So there is a problem, but of course the matter is not unique and it is difficult to say now that you do not have specific numbers, data, on some comparisons actually determine whether we have really so many people now that we do not know that they have a professional disease or not. The proposed amendment seeks to achieve the objective of adopting legislation that will facilitate and facilitate the identification and validation of occupational diseases in Slovenia, and to find that ZPIZ-2 is weak in this respect. The aim of the proposed amendment and the addition is to lay down the legal basis for the establishment of the ZZZS Executive Body, i.e. the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the other main solutions, the specific determination of the method of identification of occupational disease, the identification of the procedure for the identification of occupational disease, the identification of the method of certification of occupational disease, the identification of the competent authority of ZZS, its tasks and competences, the determination of the costs of the identification, certification and notification of occupational disease. We also agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the current regime for the identification and certification of occupational diseases is no longer appropriate. However, we also believe that the solution to the problem is not appropriate in the proposed way. Such opinions are also made by the Government and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, where they consider that the proposed regime is not internally coherent and comprehensive and does not comply with the applicable rules and guidelines of the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. The proposal therefore regulates the large-scale issue of occupational diseases, which is the content of health insurance, within the framework of legislation governing pension and disability insurance. It is also worth noting that the applicants refer to some incomparable data on recognised occupational diseases from 30 years ago in a completely different system – that is, in an industrial society and at this point in a completely different economic and work environment – and in times of information society, robotics and predominant service activities are completely irrelevant. We agree that it is necessary to ensure that insured persons with occupational diseases exercise all pension and disability insurance rights which, in view of the actual cause of disability, should belong to them, as well as the rights arising from healthcare and health insurance. We are working both in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia to regulate procedures for the verification of occupational diseases, which will be comparable to other members of the European Union. We therefore need to pursue the objective of making the area of identification, certification and notification of occupational diseases clear, transparent, and to find an effective way to ensure safe and healthy work in jobs. In order to achieve effective detection of occupational diseases, which is also a recognised indicator of the state of safety and health at work in the country, it is necessary to address the problem more comprehensively and to align the content of changes in the law with others on related laws and with the social partners. The proposal for the novel ZPIZ-2M in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group cannot be supported because it is weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Jože Lenart, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The area of detection and certification of occupational diseases in our country is not regulated, as we do not have a regulation laying down the legal procedure for the recognition of those diseases. The only exception is occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos, which is regulated by a specific law, namely the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Work with asbestos in 2006. Thank God, at least we've got that covered. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act provide workers who suffer from occupational diseases with a higher standard of rights than in the case of non-professional illness or non-professional injury, but the employees of these rights cannot in fact enforce them, since we do not have a regulated procedure for the recognition of occupational diseases, as has been said several times today. As a result, workers with these diseases or injuries do not have the right to compensation and compensation from disability insurance. Although we are all aware of the problem, after all this time there is still no solution. Today we can take the first step towards regulating this problem, as we have in our first reading the law we have tabled by the parliamentary groups of the democratic opposition, with which we will solve the problem. The area of identification and recognition of occupational diseases has already been tried in the past, in the days of Pahorjev and then the Cerara government, but unfortunately always failed. It is therefore absolutely necessary to move forward. Only government support for the identification, validation and reporting of occupational diseases in a clear, transparent and effective manner is not sufficient, it is necessary to move from words to actions and finally settle this matter in this area. According to data from the Ministry of Labour, some more than 78 000 persons were disabled after their state of employment in 2019. However, the assessments of experts in this field and the comparative review with other countries indicate that occupational disease is responsible for about a third of the disability. So, after this calculation, there should be about 25,000 disabled people in our country for the purpose of doing their job, but at the end of 2020, only 191 individuals received a disability pension due to their occupational illness. This already indicates that this area is not regulated as it should be. Every year, there are extremely few occupational diseases. 64 occupational diseases were recognised in 2010, 70 in 2015 and only 21 occupational diseases in 2020. Our proposal, which we will decide today, regulates the legal basis for identifying and certifying occupational diseases in Slovenia. The method and procedure for identification and certification of occupational disease shall be determined. The expert body of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, its tasks and competences, and the costs of the procedure for identifying, certifying and reporting occupational diseases, shall also be designated. Unregulated areas have violated the rights of Slovenian workers for years and years who cannot exercise the rights granted to them under the rules on disability and health insurance due to injuries at work and occupational diseases at a time when these areas were also not regulated in jobs. Although the government acknowledges what we have heard today — that this area is not regulated. Today, however, we have heard only excuses that we cannot accept this. Then what is it? Then where is that solution? I also heard my colleague and I say a few words that a good year ago was even said by the Ministry that this is exactly the area we have to deal with, and today it is not appropriate. We have a lot of money even for weapons, millions for useless equipment, and I don't know what else we're spending in this period, but we don't have for groups of people who have been working in inappropriate situations for decades, and today we don't know or even want to take care of them. That's sad. We have also heard today that there are parliamentary groups, such things should have been supported long ago in order to resolve such things. But it's for weapons, and that's where they put their hands up. As a result of this, Members and Members of the Social Democrats' Group, the List of Marjan Šarca, the Left, the Alenka Bratušek Party and the unrelated Members have already tabled a proposal for a law last year to regulate this area. It is up to all of us, my fellow Members and colleagues, to confirm the proposal in the first reading, so I call on all Members and Members to vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, that we will finally move this area and save this group of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Soniboj Knezak has the following word: he will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Occupational diseases are not a topic that we would talk about daily, but they are an important part of our daily lives. If we have long thought and were convinced that there are only a few occupational diseases that arise from working in dangerous situations or from working with dangerous substances, that is not the case. Researchers come up with new knowledge and findings every day, and the list of occupational diseases thus gets longer from day to day, sadly. In Slovenia, occupational diseases and rights under this Act are governed by two laws, namely the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We could say that on paper Slovenian workers and workers have the rights they grant, but unfortunately they cannot enforce them, because there is no regulation that would provide for a legal procedure for the recognition of occupational diseases, or even more, because we have not been able to prevent professional diseases in Slovenia for quite some time. In the Group of Social Democrats, this is precisely why we have decided, together with a wide network of stakeholders affected by occupational diseases, to draw up a legal proposal that will try to resolve the situation that has arisen. We have prepared amendments to the law, which is avoided by all political decision makers and founders. For a while, we were kind of naive to think that changes would come from the government. Because that was not the case, we went on to write our own legal changes. What are the objectives of this solution to our marriage proposal? The main objectives are to establish the legal basis for the identification and certification of occupational diseases in Slovenia and to establish the legal basis for the establishment of the Executive Body of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute. Our proposed solutions are aimed at determining the method of identification of occupational disease, the procedure for identification of occupational disease, the method of certification of occupational disease, and to determine the expert body of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, its competences and tasks. Although the Government agrees with us that the current regime for the identification and certification of occupational diseases is no longer appropriate, the legislative proposal that we have written and tabled in the legislative process does not, of course, support us, because it considers that the resolution of the problem raised in the manner proposed is not appropriate, as the proposal regulates the comprehensive issue of occupational diseases, which is the content of health insurance under the legislation governing pension and disability insurance. It grieves us that nothing has been done in this area to this day. Even more saddened by the fact that none of the responsible have made clear arguments about how and how the situation of occupational diseases should be resolved. Notwithstanding all the opinions and rejections of the bill to the Social Democrats, we believe that this law solves the current state of occupational diseases, and we will conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will unanimously support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Good evening! Occupational diseases are a problematic and disorderly area. All of this is to be regulated by a regulation that has been drawn up since 2015, and in reality it is necessary to amend the law, since procedures for the identification and recognition of occupational diseases need to be laid down in a clear and distinct manner first. As a result, this has not been the case so far, we have very few professional diseases identified – in 2020 only 21. The key problem is that a professional disease is reported by the employer, which of course is not in his interest. How serious the problem was, we could see before the time when employers did not respond to instructions that co-infections with co-infection for healthcare professionals should be reported as occupational diseases. As a result, the employees had reduced their work entitlements – 100 % compensation. At the time, the Health and Social Welfare Syndicate warned: “Respecting whether a worker has been infected at or outside the workplace is indeed dependent on specific circumstances, but it is justified in most cases to conclude that a worker has been infected in the workplace,” said the union at the time. Slovenia has not had a regulation in place for 30 years to provide for a legal procedure for the recognition and recognition of occupational diseases. Exceptions are purely occupational diseases caused by asbestos. Thus, patients in practice cannot exercise rights that are legally owned by them, thereby causing serious harm to workers and workers. The aim of the proposed law today is simple: to establish the legal basis for identifying and certifying occupational diseases in Slovenia. At the same time, the law also provides for an expert body, i.e. the Department of Health Insurance, which will carry out this. What exactly does the bill stipulate? That there is a occupational disease if there is a causal link between the disease identified by the Minister responsible for health and the direct impact of working conditions or the work process on a particular place of work or at work. In determining the causal link, account shall be taken of the worker’s working history, which indicates that he or she has performed or performed work under working conditions where exposure to the causal factor is or is present, and the worker’s exposure to working conditions for which there is scientifically sound evidence that he or she may cause a occupational disease. The procedure will be carried out by a worker submitting an application to the institution and a medical specialist will issue an opinion on the basis of this opinion. This opinion will be sent by the doctor to the Commission to confirm occupational diseases. This Commission then gives its opinion, which is the basis for the exercise of rights. The costs will be borne by the institution, with the exception of EUR 50, which the worker will have to pay as a fee. If the disease is confirmed, then this money will be returned to the employee. It is therefore a matter of labour rights in the case of occupational diseases. These should therefore be clearly and specifically recorded in the law. Workers suffering from non-asbestos occupational diseases in Slovenia often do not know that their suffering is the fault of the profession they carried out. In fact, they do not realize that severe muscle and skeletal defects can be the result of long-term burdens at work. For example, possible deafness is not associated with the excessive noise of machines in the production hall where they worked, and cancers are not associated with toxins exposed to them during their working hours. According to the expert assessment, according to comparable numbers abroad in Slovenia, about a thousand new professionally ill persons should be detected annually. According to the Ministry of Labour, 30 were officially discovered in 2020. The invalidity pension due to occupational illness receives fewer than 200 people. The consequence of non-availability of occupational diseases is the non-remuneration of invalidity due to these diseases. An individual who has become disabled for doing his job receives a significantly higher disability than one who is disabled for other reasons. In Slovenia, according to the Ministry of Labour in 2019, we had a good 78 000 disabled persons, according to experts and comparisons with other countries, a professional illness is responsible for about a third of disability. This means that there should be around 25,000 disabled persons in Slovenia because of their profession. Twenty-five thousand. However, according to the Ministry of Labour, only 191 workers received invalidity pensions due to occupational illness at the end of 2020. According to the International Labour Organisation in Slovenia, about 450 people die of professional cancer in Slovenia every year. Some 300 more die each year because of certain other occupational diseases, such as poisoning. So, together, more than 700, 750 people a year die because of occupational diseases. In the past, employers were the key obstacles to settling matters. They opposed the adoption of the new regulation. They were concerned about the possible compensation actions of workers due to identified occupational diseases. And despite the thousands of new diseases due to occupational diseases every year, 25,000 people with disabilities, most of whom do not even know that their health is due to their occupation, and more than 700 deaths due to occupational diseases have not shown any great interest in regulating this area so far. In the vast majority of cases, therefore, workers in the industry are affected by lower incomes. For years, employers' associations have effectively blocked the consensus of the social partners on how to regulate the field of occupational diseases. In Levica we will support the proposed legal changes, however, but note that the legislative amendment foresees additional burdens for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. This is about both administrative costs and the employment of a new staff, so doctors. We therefore reiterate that liquidity must be a health cash priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Tadeja Šuštar Zalar will be the last to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. The proposal to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides that the procedure for the work of occupational diseases would be regulated in the context of pension and disability insurance, although it is more relevant in the field of health insurance. Applicants propose that occupational disease be confirmed if there is a causal link between the disease on the list of occupational diseases and the longer, direct impact of working conditions or working processes at work or at work falling within the direct framework of the activity on the basis of which the worker is health and pension and disability insured. The identification of occupational disease would be initiated following the proposal by making an application to the ZZS regional unit. The opinion issued within 60 days by an authorised doctor would confirm or disprove the existence of a occupational disease and the Commission would then issue an opinion confirming or rejecting a occupational disease within 90 days. Let me remind you. Applicants want to regulate the tasks and working methods of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but the functioning of the ZZZS, which is the institution of compulsory health insurance, is regulated under another law, this is the Health Care and Health Insurance Act, and therefore the system of recognition of occupational diseases would be better regulated under this law. Under the current legislation of occupational disease and work where they occur, the conditions under which they are considered to be occupational diseases and the procedure for identifying, certifying and reporting occupational diseases shall be laid down by the Minister responsible for health. This should also establish a new list of occupational diseases by the end of 2014, but this has not yet happened. The preparation of the new Regulation has stopped with the social partners, as they did not reach a consensus in 2018 in the context of the social dialogue. In Slovenia, fewer occupational diseases are identified annually than would be expected in comparable countries if we take into account the number of working people in our country. The problem is a very outdated list of occupational diseases and a system for identifying and proving occupational disease through health monitoring of workers through preventive health checks. This means that the worker’s occupational illness must be confirmed by the employer’s health care provider, which makes such procedures rare and does not show the actual number of occupational diseases. However, the expert body of the ZZS does not have a legal basis to determine for the purposes of determining the causes of disability itself whether or not it is a occupational disease. The area of occupational diseases is substandard and we agree that it is not possible to resolve this by means of a sub-legislative act, but rather by supplementing the basic legislation, in this case the CFSP. Changes and additional standardisation in the identification of occupational diseases are therefore necessary, but this area should be regulated in the context of health insurance rather than in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Therefore, in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – we believe that today's proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I would like to inform you that the current order of the remaining two Members, who have been reported to the debate, is published on the screens and also on the internal website of the National Assembly. This will be sufficient for today's debate. Notice. Before I gave my word to the first person to report, he wanted the word "proposer." Mag. Thirsty, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to explain one thing. Most of the questions are why we try to deal with PIZ and why not through the Health and Health Insurance Act. I agree with myself that both laws already have a chapter on this subject open at this point, and there is a debate all the time, whether it is a more appropriate law, which is in fact a health law, because it is a disability finding, or a law that has to pay the pension, which is anyway. As an individual, as a person who talks to people, it is most important that people who go to a disability pension be calculated in a professional way because it is much larger. That's the first reason I personally think it's purely the real law of ZPIZ. The second reason is what I've already said. Regulation on occupational diseases, which also has all the annexes in it. In fact, the Legal and Legal Service is wondering where the annexes are. Yes, it is a rule, and also all the annexes are in the rulebook, which is in the drawer of the current minister, who is probably also trying to take a step forward. Allow me a third argument as to why those who have tabled this law, even in agreement with Slovenian trade unions, lawyers and professional disease experts, have decided on this path. In fact, on March 15, 2021, a good year ago, the Minister of Health, on my initiative to do something about it, replied: “At the Ministry of Health, we received a written initiative from the MEP mag. Diana jedan, we're giving you an answer. He called on the Minister to prepare a proposal for a change to the Health and Health Insurance Act." So what you want today. And I asked him to be ready by June 2021. He then wrote a few arguments in a longer answer, and he concluded in a way that at least I understood as a reference. It reads: “The Ministry will seek to establish a working group in 2021 as soon as possible to review, examine, propose,” and so on, “the legal basis for the adoption of a new regulation” is only a desire to accept, here are procedures and a list of diseases, “although it passes the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is one of the possibilities for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's legislative services. So what did we do? Since this was not the priority of the ministry, other priorities were at the time of the epidemic, and I understand that, because we do not have such a strong group of experts, we followed the instructions of the competent minister, who directed us to prepare a supplement to Article 68 of the Law. We have done so because, among other things, we have been instructed by the competent minister, Mr Janez Poklukar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The first is Mr Sonibo Knezak, followed by Mr Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, secretary of state, say good-bye again! What I agree with – that there will be no feeling of condemning the current government for nothing to be done – is that nothing has done more than a few governments before. Today, several dates have already been mentioned, what someone should have done by 2014 and even later. The fact is that we do not have this area today. In the opinion of the Government, too, it is possible to track this agreement of yours. This law, or changes in what we have prepared, gives some answer. Given that I have to say what I know about this issue, because I have been working in the field of human resources for the past 20 years and that safety and health at work have also been one of my areas, and I doubt that we will change some of the other matters so that we can find some concrete solutions. If we really want to find them. How is it that today's legislation imposes on the employer? For a little while. The Law on Safety and Health at Work imposes on every job we have in the company to produce risk assessments. Risk assessments for each job where there is a representative of the medical profession, the medical profession, usually the safety engineer and I think there is also a representative of the employees. They evaluate work with chemicals, standing work, sitting, bending, in short. On this basis, they shall draw up a risk assessment, which shall, inter alia, form the basis for determining the periodicity of medical examinations. Whether they have an individual job every two years where there is a higher risk, a medical examination or every five years. It's today's condition. The other thing is, the employer's on his way. Since the inspection, at least in the last four years, when I left the factory, it has been the case that for several years the inspections have been regularly controlled, it has been commendable, even the dates that did not exceed these medical examinations. So they're human resources, as far as that's concerned, as far as they're concerned. But what I want to say is that after a medical examination, the employer only receives a notice, a worker is capable or incapable of doing so. If it's not, what's the limit? The employer’s identification procedure shall follow whether he has a suitable position or not. If not, of course we can say goodbye. And for the rest of the worker's working ability, it's not a job and there can be a break in the working relationship, even if you're disabled, for several years now. Otherwise, it is a procedure for the disabled to ask the Ministry of Labour for consent, which is also one nonsense. They have to answer you within three months, but I don't know how the Ministry of Labour will determine, it's never been clear to me whether we have a, I don't know, my factory still working for him if I'm saying we don't have one. But that's the procedure. That's mostly how they approve these applications. The one where I would look for a way to solve this problem, especially what you say – that there is no data. While we are announcing some procedures in these legal changes, the worker must raise the role, submit, in short, one set of administrative data that would be totally unnecessary if we received a medical report. Each year, at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year, a report shall be prepared for the company. And this is a report on jobs in individual establishments, in short, you don't have a name in there, what's in there, of course, is not allowed, but it says inside, there's a larger number of locomotor diseases in this facility, I don't know, hands. And in cases where medicine finds that this is more than 50, 60 % of all those controlled by a job, it should be legal to provide that medicine works at least what it is, initiates a conversation with the employer to warn him that something is added, that something is wrong, that it is not normal. In the first stage of the job arrangement, ergonomic regulation, there may be others. If this is the case, I do not know, in one foreseeable year after which he does not make a warning, next year, the medicine of work should trigger this disability procedure. What's the problem? But the problem is, like the last one, I think the representative of Nova Slovenije was in the position to explain. The problem is, it's all payable. Businesses pay for the medicine of work. Years ago, when I left the factory, the average medical examination was between €120 and €150, even more if there were additional checks. It's at a company where you have 500 employees, in a place that's pretty good income from a health center. The report I said that medicine is being prepared at the beginning of the year for the last year, the company gets it if it pays. I know that the vast majority, probably mostly the younger ones, never pay because they know each other after all. But it's very interesting because it's worked out by jobs and there's statistics. For each job, medical work from companies has for 10 years, as long as they have time, these reports. And you can see exactly where we make disabled people. So, there's data. On the basis of these data, which should be initiated by the medical profession, that it has 70 % per year, or I do not know how many employees, in this workplace, have serious problems with the same problems, should be triggered. Then I agree with this committee of the Health Insurance Office, where it is an expert, and then it initiates the procedure. This is how we today produce not only products, but also disabled people in companies. Also in the company where I was and which is a labour-intensive company, this was a major problem related to abstention. So when we went to the rehabilitation of the company, we also did this, of course, in connection with the profession, we reviewed all the jobs, ergonomically arranged some jobs. One reason. Today, there was also a debate on whether they were real or not or should be substantially larger. There are some companies - I am surprised, however, that we also have quite a number of successful companies, which also care about their employees, not only those companies that have people on minimums, but when they get sick, the last concern, regardless of the years you spend in the company – which have made progress in these years also under the Law on Safety and Health at Work. With this risk assessment, they updated, we have a lot of robots, here's the technique that went forward, and that's probably part of the reason. Of course, this procedure, which we are talking about today, has probably given us its own. Relatively, it's a matter of solving it. But I'm saying there's a big business in the back of a health home. If you have 500, there is about 30, 40 thousand euros in income for a smaller healthcare home. In the place where I come from, there was a good income. We wanted to switch, they offered us everything. But there's data for years for every job in medicine. And that could be the basis. If there are more than 50 years, I don't know how many, I mean, one and the same diseases is a sign of the medicine of work, that we should initiate the procedure on the committee. Then let the expert from the department come and study the matter. And I'm sure we'd take advantage of the matter relatively quickly. Of course, like I said, payers, here I see a big problem, these services are companies. This is one area we've opened. Also in terms of working conditions, also in the field of Bennification, because we still have some jobs in Slovenia where they have so-called Bennification. Although it is now an additional health insurance for burdens, it is called harder jobs, glassmakers, miners and so on. We don't have these procedures in place here either. A lot of jobs have been updated. I know, in the company where I was, we had a job as glass painters, and they used to have benification because they worked with paints that contained lead. These colors have been gone for 20 years. They used to have lead. Instead of having sick people, we gave them a litre of milk every day, and at medical examinations they found that they had all the lead content. That's what the system was like. But we've given them the Bennification. We actually sold health, but it was part of this system, not just us. What I'm trying to say is, if you want to end your job by law now, you don't have a Benification Commission anymore, you can get sued. We are for some two jobs where paint is no longer lead, all on a water-based basis, no reason, literally wanted to make the law work, and we don't have it. So, in the area of safety and health at work, we have taken one big step with the law itself, but as far as this is concerned, we still have a problem that we are correcting today, but it seems to me that in the direction I have directed it to be resolved. And we still have the door open. Nothing, so far so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I must say that we are dealing with the subject and have met it as Mr Sonibo did in his previous work. I respect the effort to fix the problem. As we see, the problem is, but also as to whether the PIZ-2 is good or not good, some things may need to be reconsidered. So the debate, the debate, is welcome. However, we must also be aware that the rules on occupational diseases did not see the light of the world, but in previous governments it was once an emergency, once the government stopped working, and the second time it did not go through because the matter was not harmonised. And if we say so, it is also clear why it is difficult to reconcile the matter with the unions, with the workers. Normally, they're kind of trying to get as many diseases as possible into this rule. But then there was fear by the Employers' Association, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, at least in 2018, there was some fear, some skepticism, to avoid some – what should I say? – epidemics of new status of occupational diseases and, of course, disability status due to work. We need to help every person who experiences a problem, a disease caused by a professional illness, or a hard job in the workplace. I believe that this matter can be handled in a qualitative way in the near future, but in a short time, I don't think I can do it. This is mainly because it is not particularly difficult – I will say, to detect the problem is one. The numbers written here, the numbers of registered occupational diseases in Slovenia, also appear to be very low. But if someone said that instead, I don't know, 50 in 2015, 70, I don't know, ten times more, but of course I can't accept it. Why? Comparisons with some years ago, when we were actually in a completely industrial economy, a lot of large businesses, a lot of heavy industries compared to today, I will say, these comparisons are not relevant. Another thing I have to say. If we look at businesses today, especially the medium ones, it's sometimes the same as the doctor's, but sometimes it was, I'll say, a whole mess, it's in the air and on the ground actually the possibility of someone getting sick with a long-term exposure like this. One more time. I believe that the situation is not okay, but an exaggerated number of possible guesses – if no one has proposed a quality medical examination for a person, then it is also difficult to tell how much more is actually there. Also, the proposaler said that we are also lagging behind the European Union countries in Slovenia – again, if we compare our industry, I don't know, the French or German industries, then it is difficult to get some comparable data out of this, from which we could say that the reality in Slovenia is worrying. But it is only right that the situation is being resolved. I must say that I believe in our entrepreneurs, that they will somehow try to harmonise, so that all stakeholders will actually agree to these rules and that in the near future we will continue to discuss this in both the Labour Committee and the National Assembly. So if things probably got better by now, I'd be making progress if there wasn't a covid of the situation. Both ministries, both the Minister of Labour and his secretaries, as well as the Minister of Health and his secretaries, also had plenty of work due to the situation of the immediate adoption of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. You want a word? [[Yeah.]] Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I think there is no doubt about the content itself today that the content is very well-intentioned. The content also refers to very vulnerable groups of people who need to regulate the recognition of occupational diseases. However, the main challenge here is that we believe that addressing this issue is regulated or wants to be regulated in the wrong law. And it's not just about whether this is going to be regulated by the PIC or the PSC, but it's about who's in charge of this law. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act is the responsibility of the Minister of Labour. However, the subject matter covered by this proposal and also by that rules on occupational diseases is the subject matter under the responsibility of the Minister of Health. If it is now confirmed or voted that this law is suitable for further consideration, the law will be dealt with on the Labour Home Committee. It should, however, be more appropriate or appropriate to be considered on a parental committee responsible for health and health. Here too, if we look at a bill, one article says if I read it: “The question of a occupational disease begins with the application for the identification of a occupational disease submitted by the worker in the district unit of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia.” This law regulates certain procedures, appoints the expert bodies under the responsibility of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, not the Minister of Labour. So I would like to point out that the Government does not oppose the purpose of this law and agrees that this topic needs to be regulated. But if we want the subject to be comprehensively regulated and the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Office to be involved here, then this law should be dealt with on the Health Committee, not on the Committee responsible for work. From this point of view, we have the greatest concerns as to whether this law is properly incorporated into the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It was also said that the legal basis for this was STIZ. Yes, it is true that the second paragraph of Article 68 of PIZ-2 provides that occupational diseases and works on which these diseases occur, the conditions under which they are considered to be occupational diseases and the procedure for the identification, certification and notification of occupational diseases shall be laid down by the Minister responsible for health. Thus, the Ministry of Health is also responsible for the topic of occupational diseases. I would just like to reiterate that the Government does not oppose this content, agrees that this area needs to be regulated, but that we believe it would be significantly more effective and then easier to implement if the Ministry of Health and not the Ministry of Labour, which is not responsible for these occupational diseases, were involved in the drafting of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the Magi's proposer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, too, Madam Secretary of State, for the truly positive word. Today, when I listen to the debates, it is obvious that everyone would like to settle because it is simply inappropriate. Now for the first answer. Who says there are 700 to 800 occupational diseases in Slovenia that should lead to a professional disability pension in order to make it easier for workers? That's not what we're telling the politicians. This mentions the largest expert in this field in Slovenia, the larger and more prominent, Dr. Dodič Fikfak Method. I can indicate the source, and it has also been published several times. That's her grade. There is no greater expert at this time in Slovenia. But I really want the number to be ten times smaller. But we don't really have any other information. And the fact is that occupational diseases are not recognised, except for asbestososis, which has a special law. And the fact is that we international institutions, because we are also signatories to conventions, report that we have things in order – we do not have them, we do not have them in practice. So from here, the numbers 500, 600, 700, we refer to the expert when there are others, and we'll refer to them. The question of whether to settle in one marriage or another is, of course, an important legal issue and, in fact, a completely irrelevant one. We have one country, one government, one National Assembly and, in fact, a total budget of three State Treasuryes. What has led us to the fact that, despite everything, we have introduced this law, and not just the rule that refers to the law that we are considering today, have also been the answers of the competent ministers. Now I'm going to read a little more, and I'm just going to quote that there's gonna be no mistake. Actually, that's what I've been doing, and since I've been doing this, I've been doing this very, very intensely. The task of the opposition Member is not in fact to write the law, we do not have such professional services, but it is that we are monitoring, warning, please, making suggestions. So for quite some time, I followed this path, which the Constitution actually imposes on me. Sending question, the parliamentary initiative is a constitutional category. An interesting response from the Minister of Health, dated 5. 2. The question is the answer to the request to complete the reply to the written question of the Member of the Magi. On the subject of the recognition of occupational diseases for insured persons. And then it reads, "To the Minister of Health and to the Minister of Labour, the family," and so on, "is the Ambassador of Mag. In fact, he addressed a request to supplement the reply to the question of the issue of the recognition of occupational diseases for insured persons. As already explained in our first reply, the Ministry of Health launched the amendment of the rules on occupational diseases in 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Health, Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities, employers, trade unions, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the National Institute for Health Protection, the General College for Medicine, Transport and Sports, the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia were included in the working group preparing the novel.« All of these then made this rule, which is now in the drawer, and it would save people. “The purpose of the amendments was to ensure the rights laid down in the applicable legislation, namely the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The proposal for a Regulation is prepared.” Next page: “As we have also explained in our first reply to the question received, the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation in the context of the inter-sectoral coordination of the proposal of the rules on occupational diseases has pointed out that the provision of ZPIZ-2 is, therefore, a law that we are trying to amend today, “which constitutes the legal basis for the issue of the rule cited, subordinated and that only the legal text in this part should provide an answer to the process of recognition of occupational diseases.” Do we hear it? The legal text should have at least some of the provisions of this Regulation and also the basic criteria for the recognition of the disease. We've done one and the other now. “It is a matter of legal matter that cannot be resolved or regulated under the rules and therefore an extension is required.” But then, importantly: “The Ministry of Health has therefore decided to address that area in the Health Care Act” what we all say today. Then I asked when, how this would be done. And the next letter. Wait a minute. Excuse me. Excuse me. The following month, a good month later, March 15th, it says again, we received something from Dejan jeedan, the initiative relates to the recognition of occupational diseases and the related recognition of professional pensions. These are, therefore, professional pensions, which are significantly higher than regular pensions. So if the lady I described earlier had been a recognised professional pension – and I am quite sure that after 20 years of working for machines where she had no basic opportunity to care for health, she would not have had a 230, but would have a minimum pension. There's no other way. [[Someone in the hall sneezes]] Cheers. And: “We explain that in the proposal for a new Health and Health Insurance Act,” this is what the Government is referring to today, “there has already been a provision in 2018 for the separation of compulsory health insurance for occupational risks and occupational diseases.” And then this draft of something predicted a clear separation, but I'm there and so on. What am I trying to say? Activities in the area of drafting new legislation in this area have been halted by activities related to the epidemic. And then it just says that the Ministry was trying something, but it didn't. I understand. They were assigned to fight the worst epidemic in the history of Slovenia. That's why they told us what to do. That's what they wrote. “The legal basis for the adoption of the new rules for occupational diseases is the Act on Pension and Disability Insurance. The Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed this legal basis as subordinated.” Therefore, one possibility is the substantive addition to this law, which, by the way, belongs to your ministry. What did we do? What the competent minister, whom I appreciate, has directed us to. And if I were to be told by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, I'd say, well, look, Vice-President, your knowledge is like that, it could be different. But the competent minister told us what to do. With limited resources – parties, even coalitions, and opposition we have very little expertise in Parliament – we have done so. Because every year, because it's been a mess for 30 years, we let 500 to 700 people down. That's why it's my request. A lot of substantive issues are open, I am aware, I only have a small request – let's all together allow the law to come to a serious professional discussion under the articles on the competent committee, to see if there are any things that really do not belong to the law, and send them out so that we can leave all that is absolutely necessary in the PIC. What the Minister of Health also thinks is to allow for the adoption of a rule that actually allows people to help. So what we've done is we've done it because your government has recommended it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-02-03-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded this round of debaters. I ask whether it is still of interest that, in the context of time-sharing, someone is discussing. I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good evening, everyone! (The sitting was suspended 3. ON FEBRUARY 2022 AT 18.42.)
