ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 20, paragraph 2, and Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Tina Heferle from 12 p.m. to 14 p.m., Franc Jurša, Iva Dimic, Alenka Jeraj, mag. Marco Pogačnik, mag. Branislav Rajić, Samo Bevk by 2 p.m., Jani Prednik, Andreja Zabret from 12 till 13 p.m. The meeting was attended by the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Acting Secretary-General of the Government at the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council at the 4th and 17th points, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council at the 22nd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government at all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 21 January 2022, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The LMŠ, SD, Levica, SAB and the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members of the National Assembly propose to withdraw from agenda 29 the second item of the agenda, namely the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Code of Penalties, the reduced procedure. You received the proposal by letter dated 25 January 2022. Does the representative of the motioner Brana Golubovic want to take the floor? Bran Golubovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u2	That's a good-bye! How can it happen in a country in the National Assembly to deal with such a controversial novel of the Penal Code, which, by reducing the statutes of limitations, prevents the prosecution of economic crime, abuse of the situation or other complex forms of crime? Yes, some make the impression that they respect the rule of law and actually want to legalize the government of thieves. It is a mockery of the rule of law, democracy, the ridicule of Members who support the government of Janez Janša and have allowed us to consider the possibility of an overall abolition of the rulings and their friends at this meeting. You voted in short motion and then on the Justice Committee you lit a green light on this controversial law. That's a fact, you can't deny it. But the basic purpose of the law came to the public despite the diversion of attention. And the public was, of course, appalled at the information that the adoption of this law would also undermine cases such as the purchase of protective and medical equipment, TEŠ 6, and the criminal proceedings of Minister Dikaucič, as well as Trent, in which Prime Minister Janez Janša defends himself. Both the legal profession and the European Public Prosecutor's Office oppose the law, the referendum is being announced. The pressure is great, the elections are close, and the parties of the ruling coalition have become frightened, and one after the other have distanced themselves from this disputed law, from the law that you supported and made it possible for him to travel in the National Assembly. But since we do not believe you will really vote against it, we insist on the proposal to withdraw this law from the session. It is not a distant memory of the vote on the discharge of Minister Visik, at which you gave up your support, but then ate your word. Who says you won't do it now? This controversial and inappropriate law is particularly indicative of how the current authorities represent the country and its legal order. As his own property, he wants to submit everything. In an orderly democracy with a strong rule of law, such a law would not come under consideration at all. That's another shame more. Let us remove today at least this disgrace, this attempt to legalise the government of thieves, and the rest after the April 24th elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. He would like to speak with the representative of the proposaler of the case Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. For the pay phone, please. 3 minutes are available.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u4	The accusations we just heard point to the powerlessness and fear of certain left-wing political options that prosecutors should work quickly on all their cases. The fact is that prosecutors are drawing their own debates, as in certain cases 17 years does not lead to the conclusion of a case. These are the three terms of office of the President of the United States of America, who has already started two wars and has already lost one, and at this time the Prosecutor is unable to write down a specific indictment and the court is unable to charge him or to forgive him. This suggests the possibility that, at this time, for example, during these 17 years, prosecutors can negotiate with a wide range of witnesses: burdensome witnesses, liberating witnesses, the defendants. When the case comes to court - what happens? 96% of witnesses do not recall the event 17 years ago. The goal has been achieved. And in this case, the prosecutors may, by their own feelings or political preferences, decide and determine who is to blame and who is not to blame. We tried to avoid this by introducing this law. This is not true that some would simply be dismissed from the sentence. That's not true. In months, as long as they remain until the law is implemented, prosecutors could do anything but jump around and talk about killing democracy and similar nonsense. At that time, we could write what they were preparing for 17 years. By this time, many had died, witnesses had disappeared, forgotten, and the freeway was open. Which way is open? The ones used in the former Yugoslavia under the communist regime and condemned the man by his last name were not allowed according to the political preference, since at that time only one political option was allowed, and today all others who were not in line with that historical memory. All these options are prohibited. Slovenian lawyers say so, half are on one side, half are on the other side. However, everyone can have an opinion about Slovenian lawyers. Read what's going on, and I think you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? I'm guessing yes. I ask you to apply to the list, the most fairly chosen order will be. I'm only talking about representatives. Janja the Servant has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much. As it is now in our ears, of course, regardless of the opposition's reasons [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u7	Comrade Servant, I suggest that you speak for the women of the MPs. Comrade Vatovec, you couldn't sign up? We'll put you on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u8	Today, the opposition proposes the withdrawal of the item on the agenda of the Penal Code, which has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure by the extended term of this coalition. Why? Because it is precisely contrary to what has been done so far to ensure the functioning of the rule of law in order to ensure the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes. The extension of the expiry date was always followed. What's on our tables today means a general amnesty for the perpetrators of crimes. Not only those advocated here, but not just economic crime, but all in a row. We therefore believe in our Group that this is also a violation of Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which ensures that all victims of crimes in the Republic of Slovenia will be prosecuted by the State of the perpetrators of the crimes against them. And what I also said at the College of the President of the National Assembly, you have chosen a Member's candidate, who has been prepared to submit whatever this proposal is. However, the purpose of this proposal, as colleague Golubovic has already said today, is somewhere else. The purpose of this proposal is to put an end to the acts or to prosecute members of your government, all the procedures in which they are members of this government. And that says a lot about them and you. Especially about you, Mr Pojbič, who are now knocking on your forehead, and especially about you. And the fact that today, as it is now in my ear, you will support the withdrawal of this point and say much more about you. He says you're afraid of people. He says that you want to put your dirty goods under the table and that you don't want to discuss it at all today. We will prevent this intention from happening to you now, at least by presenting our views. But that's what you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković has the floor for the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u10	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The novelty we are discussing today is harmful and unacceptable. And if it was funny at the beginning that she wasn't referring to the real law, then when it came to confirmation on the Justice Committee, it wasn't funny anymore, but it was terrible. The proposal significantly reduces the time limits for the prosecution of crimes. With that, more would fall into the water, I could say, a thousand predictive procedures. Most of the more difficult predictive procedures in such a short time could not be carried out at all. But watch out! If it was most stressed that this would only happen in the field of economic crime, let me tell you that this would also happen in the area of other crime. It would also refer to changes in the worst crimes, including murders, rapes and so on. And to illustrate a specific case. The crime of murder is over 50 years old. On the basis of these changes, which you have supported in the coalition, the crime of murder would have expired within 10 years. A new crime of rape could only be obsolete within five years. And then you wonder or wonder why things like the Balkan Warrior have fallen. Do you know how many similar matters would have fallen if this novel had been adopted? We all want the procedures to be faster, but not at the expense of preventing those who are guilty and responsible from being held responsible for the crime committed. Lawyers say that this proposal is for the abolition of criminal prosecution of the most serious crimes. If this proposal were to apply only one day, just one day, these ageing periods would apply to all pre-trial procedures which have not yet been legally completed. This means that there would remain unsolved cases of robbery, rape, murder, and possible murderers and rapists, so that they could no longer be held accountable for their actions. Whether it's a proposaler's mistake or I'm the intended maneuver, you can decide for yourself. A well-respected coalition is therefore preparing such important changes carefully, based on an analysis of the actual situation and with expertise, not against the profession. And the consequences of this can be disastrous in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has Tina Hefferle for the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u12	In LMŠ, of course, we support the withdrawal of the point. In our view, this is the only real move the National Assembly can make right now. And for a number of reasons. While the proposaler, according to the domestic word, is missing the law, the procedural deadlines are regulated by the procedural law, which is not, the Penal Code has been pointed out by practically all professional stakeholders, and while the proposaler in one of the public executions has justified the shortening of the statutes of limitations on the grounds that during the time of service the judges go to the market with the waiters after the salad, on the other hand, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which in the event of the adoption of the proposed amendment, has announced action before the European Commission for infringement of the rule of law in our country, would have been severely prevented in this case also by the prosecution of criminal offences with the European element. On the other hand, such a drastic reduction in the limitation period for the conduct of investigations would prevent the prosecution of certain crimes as we have heard today. I am speaking, of course, of the disputed procedures for the acquisition of protective equipment in the first wave of covida-19 epidemic, and of the prosecution of Justice Minister Dikaucic, and of the investigation of TES 6 and Trent and others. Therefore, the proposal does not surprise the proposers in fact. But it is not in any way a fear of us, which reminds us of the controversy and inexplicability of the proposal, but it is indeed a whim of the proposer. Regrettably, the fact that members of the coalition have brought these changes to the committee through. Some even bitterly defended them. Well, they cloned only under pressure from the public, under pressure from the profession and under pressure from the opposition. And this is this opportunistic duality that we do not understand in the LMŠ, we do not support and condemn. Given this attitude and in view of the nature of the coalition MPs, it is the safest option for the country to vote today to withdraw the item from the agenda, because we are somehow locking down the Penal Code and thus, in these subsequent months of the government's rule, we are preventing any new interference under criminal law. Although we do not have any difficulty in renegotiating and adopting any necessary changes in criminal proceedings and their deadlines, we do not have to be as harmful and not as unprofessional as the applicant has imagined. Of course, we advocate politics when the shortening of antiquated deadlines does not make it impossible to prosecute, but rather the opposite. The court's epilogue must be given every criminal case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Masha Kociper for the SAB Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! When the members of the Justice Committee received this law and went to the committee, we were of course convinced that it was a bad joke or an unfortunate attempt at a bad joke and that the drafter, the SNS Group, would withdraw the law because of the fact that all the professions, including the Legal and Legal Service, would write and warn that he was amending the wrong law. I do not know if we have already had cases in this house that, with all the professional assistance provided by a parliamentary group, the ZPS has insisted on the amendment of the false law. This is about as if children’s supplements were regulated in the Fisheries Act or something like that. To our great surprise, there was no retreat. The applicant came, presented the law in two minutes, followed by a debate in which all professional stakeholders warned that the law, not only was tabled wrongly, because it amends the false law, all procedural laws, laws which determine how criminal proceedings are proceeding, namely, as the name already says, are regulated in the Criminal Procedure Act, but not in the Penal Code, which provides for what crimes we know and so on. They all pointed out this and all pointed out the following fact that the law is totally non-systematic in the sense that it is in the wrong way to solve the problem, as presented by the proposer, that the law is contrary to all the principles of criminal law, that the law is contrary to the principles of legal certainty also because the wrong law is being amended and that the law is in the wrong way dealing with the problem that exists. This is a problem with long-term procedures. If the applicant had a serious purpose, the procedures would be reduced in the manner previously proposed to the prosecution and the other stakeholders in the procedure, so that the time limits in the criminal procedure are not regarded as instructional, but have consequences. By merely shortening this process of obsolescence, however, it is clear what the purpose is. And it is particularly clear what the purpose is, since this law provides for the limitation of limitation. No one will convince me of a good purpose. A good intention to shorten criminal proceedings would require law by regular procedure, a serious assessment and even in the SAB would be willing to support it. Thus, it is not possible to avoid the feeling that there are really some concrete procedures here in the background, as the prosecutor has already asked me at the hearing: “Miss, do you know what specific procedures are, what would you like to go over?” “Yes,” I said, “I really don’t know.” And that feeling cannot be avoided. And, by the way, fellow Servant, they won't vote for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word for the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. I don't think anyone should be surprised that the government coalition has tabled such a bill through its megaphone or the Speaker of the Victory of Jelinčič. The government, which has been shot with corruption stories since the first day of its launch, remember masks, educators, rapid tests and so forth, has every interest to go beyond all possible rules in this country and even through every measure of good taste to wash away these controversial stories. Of course, there are also old stories, and from Trent there are still some that they have a very specific interest in getting older and not having epilogues. I'm not surprised that this marriage was under consideration, and I'm not surprised that he was supported by the coalition on the committee. It's just a very sincere and direct intention on their part to do what they were going to do. What stopped this matter is not only clear opposition from the profession and opposition, but also from people who, when we talk about economic crime, are likely to be severely affected because they daily watch people who have pockets full of money slip away and avoid any conclusions in court, while those who do not have enough money to afford expensive and capable lawyers to represent them before the courts sometimes have to pay unjustly for their actions. So people immediately said, if this law is passed, I'll see you at the referendum. And then in the coalition, she quickly came back to the memory of the experience with the Waters Act and the referendum on this law. People then made it clear that they do not agree with the policies of this coalition. I am sure that if there were another referendum on this issue, this result would be very similar. In Levica we will support the withdrawal of this law from the agenda. I think it must be in everyone's interest that this law should not be passed. And my hand at heart, I don't believe this coalition when it says it won't support it, so we'll back it up. Of course, we must all bear in mind that no matter what happens today or at this meeting with this Penal Code, we must remain vigilant in the coming months, and the next major referendum will, of course, be the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Does Brana Golubovic's representative want to explain further the withdrawal? No, no, no. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for withdrawal. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw agenda item 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour and 31. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. We are still moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The NSI, SDS and the National Assembly specifically propose that the agenda for the 29th meeting be extended by 12A, namely the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Organisation for Cooperation in Joint Arms Management of the Boxer programme by the OCCAR. You received the proposal by letter dated 27 January 2022. Would you like a representative of the proposaler for enlargement? I guess not. Would you like a word from the government? I guess not. You want to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Miha Kordish for the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u18	President, thank you for your word. Over the past two years, we have been able to see very clearly what political priorities the current authorities are predicting. Among them are the accelerated investment of Slovenian public money in foreign military industrial complexes. One of the building blocks in this civic money-spent mosaic is also the association of the OCCAR Organisation to purchase new armoured weapons for a good EUR 400 million. We do not need these armoured forces for the defence of the Republic of Slovenia at all, as the Republic of Slovenia is not militarily threatened, but even if it were, these armoured forces are in fact useless to operate on the domestic territory, because they are too wide and too heavy for the mountain, the forest area that consists of Slovenia. These armored men are bought for something else, for accelerated and enhanced participation of members and members of the Slovenian Army in missions Then I cross the Pact around abroad. The price should be paid by all citizens and citizens by the fact that 400 million euros spent on unnecessary weapons will disappear from a budget that could finance the construction of new public rental apartments, the construction of new homes for older citizens, the green transition and so on, in short, what the real challenges of today's society are. Unfortunately, with all these warnings, the government has become blind and deaf. Not so much because of us in Levica, but because of the fact that 75% of us are supported by citizens and citizens who also oppose the purchase of weapons for the needs of the then Pact at the expense of prosperity in the country. Therefore, a referendum on the so-called Tonin law for EUR 780 million was banned and withdrawn. Therefore, the referendum on the association of Slovenia with the OCCAR or, rather than being prohibited, was also banned, was rejected by the majority in the National Assembly. This is, of course, wrong, wrong with more aspects than just substantive. Among others, Commander General Staff has made it very clear that there is no consensus in the defence area that this consensus will only have to be created. What is a better basis for political decisions, such as the broad expression of citizens and citizens as to whether they want EUR 400 million for armoured or not, and this money is more like something else. All of these are reasons why the approach to OCCAR and the purchase of armoured personnel should not rush, why today we should not spread the agenda and, instead of voting on a rapid procedure and a wooden purchase of weapons that we do not need, ask citizens and citizens of this country for an opinion and position. After all, they elect us, and they're why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the operation of the voice devices. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 35. I note that the proposal has been adopted. The meeting will be held on Wednesday, 2 February, in the framework of the votes. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have adopted it with reference and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 9. I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for 46 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of questions referred shall be determined in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Minister or Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology; Jernej Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure; Dr Helena Jaklitsch, Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Branko Simonovic to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all present! In the National Assembly last December, we adopted the long-awaited Long-Terms Act. It has also been supported by Members of the Desus Group, as the regulation of this area is more than necessary. It was clear at the time of the adoption of the law that a series of sub-legislative acts would have to be drawn up to enable the actual implementation of the entire long-term care system. They will set a set of criteria which are extremely important both for long-term care users, for all their properties, in short, for all of us. They will define in more detail the scale of eligibility for long-term care, the methodology of the calculation of eligibility, the entire public network, the volume of bed facilities, the range of long-term care services and the method of implementation, the price of the hourly item, the register of operators and the supervision of their work, and other relevant specific guidelines for the successful implementation of the law. Under-laws shall be issued no later than three months after the adoption of the law, which means that this period shall expire on March of this year. Members of the Desus Group representing the interests of pensioners who are mainly users of long-term care are interested in: How far is the preparation of these submarital acts? Can we expect them to be accepted within the deadline? Does the drafting of the texts of these sub-legislative acts also provide for the participation of the external professional public? If the answer is yes, of what kind? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you so much for asking. Above all, thank you for supporting this long-standing law. At the same time, it also says that some parts of the entire long-term supply body, which I am also referring to under-laws, have also arisen from the outside. Thus, when the law was being drafted, there was also a dilemma in individual provisions, whether to include something in the law itself or to leave it to the law. So that most of what the law foresees is regulated in nine sub-legislative acts, mainly by the inter-ministerial powers of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, has been debated and also recorded in various variants of the law-making process. Of course, they're not rules yet, they're now, all nine. As you said, the deadline for adoption or preparation is March 18th. Following the assurances of both competent ministries, the first regulations shall go to public hearing this week. With regard to the question of who will be included, as said, the rules go to public hearing. Before the competent ministers sign and publish them in the Official Journal, the time will be for comments to be both lax and professional. So no one's going to be expelled. By stressing once again, of all these nine areas to be regulated, these nine matters to be settled are some simple, such as a rule on entering into a long-term supply register that is a technical regulation and probably does not require any long-term additional coordination. However, there are acts, such as a rule on the assessment of eligibility for long-term care, which is an important matter that probably requires further public debate - and the possibility of this will be in the coming weeks, and as much cooperation as possible for the professional and lay public. Thus, on the basis of the assurances I have here from both ministries, the time limit laid down by the law should be dealt with, put into public debate, predeparted and signed all sub-laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. You want a word? No, no, no. The next question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of the Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Given the persistently recurring news of the poor state of the Slovenian economy, the political negative attitude of European countries towards Slovenia, the failure of some to respect the law and rights of some and, in general, the poor situation in the country in all areas attributed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Prime Minister, I want to know what the actual situation is. It is said that the debt of each Slovenian is higher than before the crisis. Certain gentlemen and ladies of the KUL opposition say that we have raised a debt to be repaid for decades. They say no developmental and no structural breakthrough has been carried out. They are talking about spending billions of euros on pre-election candy, of which the country has nothing and will have nothing. They say that public debt growth is 14% in GDP, some say it is even more. They keep saying that the government has been fighting the pandemic wrongly and that the pandemic is being abused for its political purposes, but that it is not doing anything good for the country. They say that the economic results are poor, and despite the fact that the British Economist sang a song of praise to this government, they say that it is not true that it is fictional that the English invented it all together, just to support the current government. The so-called Left Political Options experts say that they know more than all global economic experts. They claim that the economic results are extremely poor. It is also said on the left half that it is a constant political workforce that has no basis in expertise, accuracy, desire to improve everything and so on. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you some answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has your word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. One is a flat-rate assessment based on different feelings and tastes, and the other is an assessment based on objective facts, figures, data from the State Statistics Office, Eurostat, according to the European Statistical Office, the European Commission, the competent offices of the European Union and the organisation of the most developed countries, to which Slovenia also belongs, is called the OECD. That's undisputed information. Based on these indisputable data, we can create a real picture, and we can create this real picture with comparisons. If you are alone, you are the first and the last, but if you are part of a group, then you can see from objective data where you are in real comparison with those in a similar situation. Given that the coronary pandemic was a symmetrical threat, it is said that it affected everyone, not just some in Europe or on the planet, these comparisons are also realistic in this respect. As already mentioned, the assessment or performance scale of individual countries in the fight against the pandemic, which was published in the British Economist, placed Slovenia in second place, immediately for Denmark, among the most developed OECD countries. This scale was not made on the basis of the taste of journalists in this magazine, but on the basis of OECD data, which everyone recognises when it comes to economic indicators, as essentially the most relevant. It's never been heard that we wouldn't hold that information. In addition, they are the same as the European Commission uses them in its estimates and forecasts. This data shows that at the time of the pandemic, according to the time before the end of last year, Slovenia maintained its potential or not only retained it to increase it. I will now not list all the data, but what is most important to citizens and citizens of this country is certainly the information that the available income of households in Slovenia has increased by 10% during this period. Any period you take back after 2008, never in any comparable period, even during the period before the pandemic, has the available income of households in Slovenia increased by 10%, although in most of these comparable periods, whatever you take, we owe more. During this time, Slovenia owed 20% less than the average public debt in the euro area during this period. At this time, for example, the value of equity investments in share markets in Slovenia increased by 33%, which means that during the pandemic, due to the measures we took, the Slovenian economy was making progress and that not only did the Slovenian economy have a few more economic people creating new jobs, but also people, because their available income has also increased. As far as these pre-election candy readings are concerned. Those who say and fly, I'll say, also by the people we've taken seriously so far, if we'd kept this reading, it would have meant that the current government coalition has invented both a pandemic and a boost of energy in the global markets. Whoever thinks of us as such should consider what he says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, do you request a supplement to your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Well, something small was answered. I'm interested in a lot more. In fact, there has been talk and talk about attacks on independent media, about the STA, about attacks on RTV Slovenia and also about the replacement of directors and management personnel based on political origins. It was full of our media, and I think it'd be good to find out what's actually true. There is also talk of guilt that the second course of Divaca-Koper has not yet been made, that they are still teasing, who will work, who will not work. The roadway to Koroška also hangs the blame on the current government, that the road is not made, that it is not yet made. Third developmental axis, that's something similar down there towards the white landscape. There is a strong lack of confidence in the judiciary, as they say on the left-hand side of the political option, that it is not a matter of determining the actual dispersion of the judiciary, that everything else is involved and that bad light is falling on Slovenia in the European Union, where, of course, Prosecutor Sketa and Commissioner Lenarčič are also very involved. Finally, it may also be about selling Slovenian hotels to a Hungarian buyer. It's also some pain we see in the everyday media, what's going to happen to it, what's going to happen to it, what's going to happen to it, what's going to happen to it, what's going to happen to it, what's going to happen to it, what's going to happen to it, what's private arrangements in the back, and I don't know what else. This is also part of the questions I would like answers to.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u29	These were more claims than questions, but, look [[…]] Prime Minister, I'll give you my word to complete the answer if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. As far as hotels or Sava Turisma are concerned, some other governments have sold these shares to foreigners. Mostly those who are now referring to this government. This government has nothing to do with this sale. One of the previous governments sold Savo Turizima to a foreign fund, and this foreign fund has now sold or offered to another foreign fund. So it's amazing how those who have sold a lot from banks to tourist facilities to, I'll say, blue chips of the Slovenian economy to foreigners now point to this government. That's what this is about. With regard to these perceptions, which some actually seek to negotiate for the next 7-year period, it is said that these funds of Slovenia would be taken, I must say that this is a rejection. When we heard this from Mrs Fajon's MEP, who spoke about the need for Slovenia to conditionalise these funds on the evidence it considers relevant, we may have felt that this was only going over the edge, but this is part of the political discourse, but in recent days we have heard that the Attorney General sent a letter to Brussels requiring conditionalisation or freezing of these funds, I must say that this limits to a coup d'état. Who in this country has the right to present to the people who, among other things, create and contribute these funds to European funds now, due to some capricious and manipulations that have been partially disclosed in this preliminary debate before the adoption of the agenda, Slovenia is threatening these funds? Do you imagine anyone else would have done this, the Attorney General of any other country? Last but not least, we have seen a record of a College of the European Commission where the Commissioner from Slovenia, Mr Lenarčič, joins those who would condition these funds. That's from July this year, that's over. And that's what the chairman of the commission refused. The man sent by the State to the European Commission, where he receives 20,000 euros a month, is now threatening funds for the necessary infrastructure investments in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think the questions I have asked are relevant. And I don't know, some people don't feel like there's a question here, but I don't know what. However, I would like to have more detailed answers to everything together, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that an extended debate in Parliament on my questions and the Prime Minister's answers to these questions be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u34	The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found, for the first time in June and again in October, that government decisions aimed at limiting the spread of infections in the epidemic were unconstitutional. Although the epidemic has not been declared, it is not only apparent. The Constitutional Court has also set a two-month deadline for the abolition of this unconstitutionality. And what is their key message? That the management of decrees without an adequate legal basis is not constitutionally sustainable. It is undoubtedly comfortable and fast, which comes to your way of ruling, but it is out of constitutional order. Of course, you persisted stubbornly and insisted on this even after the first finding of the Constitutional Court continued with the rulings. And that is what I find extremely worrying. Either you're being led by slander in such irrational positions or only here is your commitment to conspiracy theories, it's already a question that I'm going to leave to pre-election time. In the meantime, the Minister of Health brought the amendment of the law to the National Assembly, which the coalition itself mined. Clearly, the fear of citizens and citizens is still too great. But now, to your misfortune, or to our happiness, a professional or civil society has accomplished its task. The legal network for the protection of democracy presented the amendment to all parliamentary groups, but political parties apparently feared the extreme discontent of people over the way your government acted during the epidemic. Nevertheless, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have decided to adopt the amendment of the law and put it into the parliamentary procedure. Why? Because the decisions of the Constitutional Court have to be respected and are binding on the legislature as well as on the Government. The proposed amendments to this proposal follow fully the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and they are also a source of joy to us for protectors who restrict the government's will. It is the principle of brake and balance, which you probably know very well. So I'm asking you: Will you at least, at the end of your current term of office in the coalition, be willing to listen to professions and civil society and support the proposed abolition of unconstitutional provisions of the law on communicable diseases?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The President of the Government has your word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you so much for the questions. Next on this completely unfounded statement that Slovenia resolved the situation during the epidemic by decrees and that these decrees did not have a legal and constitutional basis. We made a comparison. No other Member State of the European Union has adopted 10 anti-Korona packages, as adopted by the National Assembly at that time, during the time of the conflict or the creation of a legal basis for the fight against the epidemic or the addition of this legal basis. And with each of these laws, this legal basis, the legal basis, has been upgraded. With every law. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has repealed several acts. If we look at the percentage, it's a minor number. We can think what we want about these decisions. In most cases, the Constitutional Court was divided. But even if we take the view that all these decisions of the Constitutional Court were justified and these annulments were also a minor proportion of what was actually adopted at that time. And most of this you have adopted in the National Assembly with ten antikoronic packages, not government decrees. But it repeats the parrot government's actions with the decrees. All other governments in the Member States of the European Union are more acting with decrees than we are. Everyone else. In Italy, the rulings were adopted by the Prime Minister, in France, the President of the State, alone. They've declared state of emergency, state of war. None of this has happened in Slovenia. The legal basis that is now in place to the greatest extent possible, which we have built up with these ten laws, is the Law on Infectious Diseases, which was passed decades ago. During that time, there were a number of pandemics in the world, but nothing drastic has changed. This law is about the same as other countries. This law is like the laws of the World Health Organization, but this law, which you are talking about, is being drawn up by a civil society, is essentially a political extension of the current opposition, for the first time in contravention of the Slovenian Constitution and the principle of the division of power, is contrary to the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and is completely inoperable. Under this law, it is impossible to deal with any epidemic because it would take weeks and weeks for all the professions to reconcile themselves around certain issues, only then on this basis could the competent ones make decisions as if the virus were concerned. Let's be serious, read this law, put yourself in the role of the National Institute for Public Health, the Ministry of Health and the Government, and imagine how this would work in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u37	Fellow Servant, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u38	You didn't disappoint me with your answer. That is exactly the kind of distraction I expected. So finger-to-toe pointing at the other one. Pointing to other countries, to other government presidents, to the World Health Organization, beating the chest with divided candy. That's exactly what I expected. But you know exactly what you're saying doesn't hold. I can tell you're deceiving me not to say any more appropriate words. Of course, I wasn't talking about the CAP. I was talking about the Law on Infectious Diseases, which at the beginning of the epidemic was clear to all, the previous government and the current government that it was not appropriate. It was also clear that it needed to be corrected. But, as I said, it's more comfortable for you, faster, more authoritarian in the way you chose it. With the decrees. And once again, you have persisted stubbornly and obviously persisted in this today. Ah, one more thing I'd like to say first. On the proposal put forward by your Minister on the table, our Group of Members has tabled exactly such amendments, with the same content as the law, as we have now put into the procedure drawn up by civil society. And he doesn't claim to be unconstitutional. However, I understand from your response that you do not intend to support this proposal. That's why I want to know: Will you then take personal responsibility for these unconstitutional measures that you have taken during your government and in disregard of the judgments of the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u39	Prime Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much. See again, this law you speak of, which you support and support, is not a law to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, but it is a law that helps infectious diseases to spread because it prevents the competent from acting in a timely manner. This is a law to endanger people's health in Slovenia. No EU Member State has such solutions as are proposed here in the law, and therefore there are no such solutions in these comparisons. In addition, these solutions are contrary to the proposals of the World Health Organisation delegation, which was here in 2017 and advised what needs to be corrected in our regulations and in our plans, and governments have not opened this file by March 2020. That's why we weren't prepared to deal with the epidemic itself. And once again, the law on infectious diseases, the one now in force, has been amended in most antikorona packages. In most of these anti-Korona laws, we have supplemented this law in accordance with the needs, in accordance with what other Member States of the European Union have done, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We've been fixing it, we've been reacting to it. It is not true that the law is still the same as it was, and that now, with some novelty that has arrived, I will say, from a circle that has called for the only profession in Slovenia brings a solution. This law is not the solution. This law is the continuation of the policy led by you and most of the other opposition. This policy is: as bad as possible, the better for us, no matter how difficult it will be for the government and the competent institutions to deal with the epidemic, how sick they will be and how many dead they will be. I must say, this is highly repulsive.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u41	Fellow Servant, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you. Well, now that was no longer a delusion. Those were lies. The law we have on the tables, in democratic procedures and without restricting human rights, as you have allowed, governs the epidemic. Above all, it does not allow the government to accept what appears to it at some point. And it doesn't allow the government to accept things that are contrary to my profession, as you have done. That's why it's so important. I would suggest that your reply, regardless of whether we decide on the law on Friday, be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. She will be the last to ask the question of Mojc Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, economic indicators testify to a positive economic climate in Slovenia, indicating the effective use of fiscal policy tools during the pandemic. Nevertheless, we have seen many problems at the expense of the eligibility of some fiscal anti-Korona measures. At the same time, there are concerns in the company's work about the possible excessive indebtedness of the country and the debt structure, which has allowed us one of the most effective mitigations of economic damage among all members of the European Union. This is an extremely important topic on which the further economic development of our country will undoubtedly depend. That's why I'm asking you: How do you assess the classification of Slovenia on international scales, in particular the performance scales of the economic aspects of the pandemic crisis, prepared at the British weekly The Economist, where Slovenia ranked second among the 23 selected members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u45	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The most developed countries of the world are in the OECD. 190 countries could be included on this scale and Slovenia would still be the second most likely. As I said in response to one of the previous questions, the numbers are objective. Our feelings may vary, even to some extent it is normal for the opposition and the position to judge the situation differently, but at least when it comes to some fundamental postulates, we should speak the same language. Therefore, there is little disappointment in this discourse, when instead of everyone being happy when Slovenia is highly classified and when we have good data, high growth, historically the lowest unemployment, some are therefore saddened. It's not like you can compete just by objecting to something to compete, trying to be better. And that's what I think we need at this time when we're preparing for the elections. Let's compete on who's gonna be better. Let's put our suggestions on the table, put them on the table, and we can talk about it, not to argue, I'll say, not to judge, but to indisputable facts. The indisputable fact is, for the first time, that Slovenia is the second most successful in dealing with the epidemic, as far as social and economic issues are concerned. It is undeniable that Slovenia has achieved less than the average of the countries on this scale and a quarter less than the euro area average, significantly less than those that have been less successful in the fight against the epidemic. So, debt isn't the only condition for how successful you are. Apparently, it's more important than what you're borrowing and what you're doing with that money. It's also important how much you borrowed. Secondly, I think it is too much to discuss because the fact that Slovenia has rectified or strengthened the situation in the last two years in all four key international credit rating agencies. For all four rating agencies, Slovenia has a rating A, with the code stable or positive. As a result, the current interest on the entire public debt of Slovenia reaches 1.3 percentage points, and a few years ago we were at 3.5 percentage points. That's hundreds of millions of differences. And we can invest these hundreds of millions in what has not been invested so far. Therefore, Slovenia also has a significantly higher economic growth than the average, significantly higher than forecast. This classification, of course, is not the only one we are pleased with when it comes to economic indicators. Slovenia has also moved from 190 countries to 9th since the sustainable development of last year, and we were still 12 years old, and we were significantly lower in years before. Being the ninth after sustainable development in the world is something we can all be happy about. The opposition, too. When it comes to a digital index, which is extremely important at a time when the digital transition is one of the key strategies, we jumped for a few cities in a single year, which is extremely difficult. This is mainly because we have organised ourselves with the new digital transformation government service, which allows for a more targeted targeting of these funds that we have negotiated from these European funds. It's always about what people get out of it. Here I can only repeat the response from before, even at this time of the epidemic, the available income of Slovenian households increased by 10%. The balance sheet didn't go up, even though it did, but mostly money went to people. People spend it to ensure a better standard for themselves, while at the same time filling the budget and remaining for common needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 27th and 28th meetings of the National Assembly. Minister of Defense, mag. Matthew Tonin will answer Violeta Tomić's question about the role of the Slovenian Army in laying crowns for collaborators with a Nazi invader on the Day of Remembrance of the Dead in the Bahamas. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. First of all, I would like to apologize to the Member of Parliament for waiting for the reply to the three meetings. For the first time, I was missing from the obligation of the Presidency of the European Union, and for the second meeting it was a technical complication because the questions sent to the President of the Government were somewhat shifted to the second day. So please accept my apology. Your question was who is in charge of the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army is commanded by the Commander-in-Chief, the President of the Republic. This is provided for in Section 43 of the Defence Act. The Minister of Defence gives guidance and then meets the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This is in accordance with Article 42 of the Defence Act. The orders themselves are issued by the Chief of Staff. You're asking how it's commanded. In principle, it shall be ordered in writing and in one instance orally. Where did the order to lay the wreaths come from in the second world war on the Ljubljana Psalms? I have before me a decision to lay down protocol rules, which, inter alia, states in Article 2 that protocol events are also state funerals, weddings and a state-run unfortunate ceremony. The laying of wreaths is therefore one of the activities considered to be protocol rules. And then in Article 47, it goes on to say that, for the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Government, the laying of the wreaths was organised by the Protocol of the Republic of Slovenia and that such implementation of the laying of the wreaths was carried out by the Guard of the Slovenian Army. This is all recorded in the specific protocol rules. In short, to carry out this laying of wreaths is the basis for the acts adopted by the Republic of Slovenia. But let me inform you that in civilised countries like Slovenia, laying weddings to victims is something common and normal, part of a civilization standard. After World War II, when the nations got together, you have many celebrations, for example, when the French and German president at the same time lay the wreaths on French soldiers as well as on German soldiers who were at two different ends of World War II. The wedding of the victims of the communist revolution is also a practice in Slovenia. This is also done every year by the President of the Republic in the Kočevsko Horn, which is usually the ceremony in early June. Every year, the President of the Republic, along with the guard of the Slovenian Armed Forces, also lays the wreath of the slain there. What happened in the Psalms is nothing unusual, nothing that would have deviated from the practice so far, and nothing that would not have been in accordance with the rules adopted, which were adopted before our government arrived. Finally, you ask how I care about the welfare and reputation of the Slovenian Army. My assessment is that good. I must tell you that in the years 2020 and 2021, after the first decade of the first two years, when the numbers in the Slovenian Army were again positive, they have been negative all the time over the past decade, which means that more people have left the army than they have. In 2020 and 2021, a blinding took place, which means that more people are coming into the army than they are leaving. In addition, I must inform you that the high interest of young people in the voluntary service of the Slovenian Armed Forces is also important. By comparison, I can tell you that in 2016, 2017 there were about 60 interested people for voluntary service, now there were 2021 600. You can calculate how much interest has been increased that young people are very pleased with the current concept, which brings them EUR 3 000 200 prizes, which gives them the opportunity to carry out driving examinations of category B, but above all it is an extraordinary experience of life, that they are not only at the forefront of building on an individual, an individual, but rather to build on a community, on a team spirit, on society, in cooperation. And these are the values that the Slovenian Army also cultivates. In the human resources sense, it has achieved a significant turnaround and, in technical terms, modernisation is also taking place intensively, and I believe that it will be completed in the next five to six years.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My colleague Tomić, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u50	Minister, I accept your apology for avoiding this response twice. It was also expected that you would use my question, which was clear, for the epp of the Slovenian Army. This government obviously has a dissension as a way of political survival. You say civilized society and civilized countries, forgive me, they don't lay wreaths on collaborators and Nazis. Imagine that in the middle of Germany someone would lay a wreath on Hitler, imagine that in France you would lay a wreath on Petain's regime. These things are unacceptable, respected Minister Tonin. And one more thing, this also undermines the consensus of the European countries and insults all the allied forces, because we well know that Slovenia, together with its allies, has defeated nazifascism. And it's no wonder that in this government then we have a society of special social importance, yellow vests, or to preserve some of the values that Hitler has for the main slogan is a hero. It is very important what protocol events this government represents. And you know what ZOBr says is that military command is based on the principles of unity, subordination and compulsory command. This means that each soldier must be fully aware of who gives him command, who is superior, and who is subordinate. And here were the patriots who killed their compatriots who swore an oath to Hitler on Hitler's birthday. And these are things we really don't have to celebrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u52	November 1st is always the day when we remember all the victims who have fallen in various wars at various tragic events. Nothing else happened last year, either. As Minister of Defence, who is also responsible for war veterans and war victims, I attended various celebrations at which we celebrated and remembered these victims. For example, I stood alongside Member Koprivec at a ceremony where we remembered the partisan victims, but at the same time a few hours later I also laid my wreaths to those who were on the other, such as anti-communist parties, and they also fell. The key message in all these matters is that all Slovenians are ours. The basic civilisation norm from Antigona is that all the dead are buried and that in various ways they are remembered in these dead. And in this Slovenia there is absolutely nothing different than other countries and therefore there is no need to create any drama and no special things. I am convinced that if you were able to get two nations together at European level who were twice in wars, speaking of French and German, then there is no reason not to be able to get the Slovenians together. That is why it seems important to me, Madam Member, that both you and I contribute to the fact that things are measured, that historians have the opportunity to explore in detail, that the commissions that are working are burying the dead and that perhaps we are looking at the tragic moments of our past history mainly from a human point of view and not from the perspective of how we can make additional political gains here, how we can put salt into the wounds. I think that if everyone acted in this direction and in this way, there would be smaller conflicts in this country. I am working hard in this direction myself, and I am also asking you for your contribution in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Comrade Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the National Assembly actually needs to have a debate once, because what you're saying is the Antigono, so and so the Slovenian right hand is being abused all the time. Yes, the right to grave, yes, but it must be made clear that history does not change. You have simply admitted that during World War II it was legitimate to swear to Hitler and, forgive me, the civil code is to move away from these Nazi ideas, which are unfortunately in a recent time, even since the government of Janez Janša is in power again, even though you have promised to build your government that you will not open ideological ideas to them, but what will you do as an ideological theme, because you have also taken power. We must also make it clear that the Constitution, in its 102nd Article, states that the President of the State commands the Slovenian Army, but has informed from Mr Pahor's office that the President of the Republic has no influence on this decision. But in his absence, he's being replaced by the president of the National Assembly. With what logic does Janez Janša, the Prime Minister of the Government send the guards of the Slovenian Army to lay their wreaths to the patriots? I deeply regret that it has lasted three months and that this issue has already cooled down a little, and there has been quite a bit of water since the Slovenian public again split up and suffered again in this act, which is not an act of reconciliation, but is an act of new discord between people. Reconciliation means, let's admit who was wrong at the time, for, excuse me, if it's no mistake to swear to the invader, if there's no mistake in betraying their people, dragging them out of warm beds at night, beating them up, killing anyone who's had contact with the Liberation Front, mothers, wives, children. We have a lot of testimony about what was happening at Urh, Kozlar's guests and around. To admit a mistake and then we can move on, not to celebrate the bloodthirsty, the one who allowed us to speak Slovenian here today and which was part of some consensus and great alliance in Europe and in the world, and who we degrade and change history. These are very dangerous procedures, you know. A nation that learns nothing from its history is, unfortunately, always forced to repeat it. And this is what the government of John Janša does all the time, even the words are the same as they were in the 1930 ’ s. I urgently want to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jože Podgoršek, will answer two questions. First, on the question of Boštjana Koražija regarding the purchase of the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! I myself owe an apology for the delay in this oral question. The Council of Agricultural Ministers was also in Brussels during the period when the questions were sent. Our ministry, as well as this government, has been working for some time, and at this point I can say that I am successful in trying to save the seminary as one of the important factors for stabilising agriculture, production, plant production in the Republic of Slovenia. From this point of view, I can claim that I myself regret to have accepted the fact that Semenarna Ljubljana was sold to be sold by partners through the bank, i.e. those who should keep this seminary in Slovenian hands. However, since we know that at such times the country can also enter this field and stabilise production, already in 2020 this government adopted a decision imposing on SDH to carry out the transfer procedures, the transfer of the Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre from Semenarna Ljubljana to the new owner. Of course, the conclusion was prepared at that time with great desire for this to happen practically immediately, but then we came up with a number of obstacles to the realization of this conclusion. Even when I was on my own as a minister after several times looking for solutions with SDH, we have repeatedly found that this transfer is simply not feasible. That's why we kept building and looking for solutions. One solution is one that eventually came true. Thus, on 25 November, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as you mentioned the issue, adopted a decision proposing that SDH should carry out a procedure for the establishment of a temporary dedicated company to purchase the Ptuj Selection and Experimental Centre instead of the payment procedures. This company, a temporary company, fully transfers its entire assets in the first half of 2022, i.e. this year, to the property of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a gradual transfer of all assets, including intellectual property, varieties, to the people who participate there. When we were overplaying different variants, we finally decided on this path mainly because SDH finally assessed that this was practically the only way to do so. In the end, the result will be the same. At this point, I can say that on the basis of this decision, the SDH Government established a temporary company in December called the Center for the Autochthonous Species of Seeds, d.o.o., which was registered on 14 December. On 20 December, the last day to which Semenarna Ljubljana had also agreed to carry out this business or to realize this business, which had been negotiated for quite some time, was signed a three-party contract between the Provisional Society of the Center for the Autochthonous Species of Seeds, d. o. o., Semenarno Ljubljana and SDH. In this way, the Center for the Autochthonous Species of Seed took over the property of the entire SPC Ptuj. As I have already said, this is the first step in the process of transferring ownership of SPC Ptuj to state ownership. Our ministry is in charge and we are already preparing material to send the material to the government procedure by the end of March, with which a suitable professionally qualified operator of this property will be identified. We know that SDH has no experience in seminary, so we want to have one of those seed managers who can manage the seeds in the future. Let me conclude by adding that it is envisaged that our ministry will also provide additional resources to strengthen the professional tasks to be carried out at this new location, namely in Ptuj, and will also be defined in the multiannual public service programme in agriculture and gardening and in the public service of the plant genetic bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, you have the floor to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u58	Minister, you've already said some things yourself. In fact, I asked the question at the meeting on 13 December and then on 14 December this Center for the Autochthonous Seed Variety was established, d.o.o. Here, too, I personally see the biggest problem, because there was a great deal of proposal, especially for this professional public, so that this matter could be transferred directly to the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia. As far as I know, even after the sale it is meant that this part of the Ptuj Selection Experimental Centre will become part of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia. As it is said, the biggest problem for me personally is why a particular company is being set up again, which is part of it, because it could also be established as a public institution that can cover or regulate these matters. But it's a fact that if a public institution were to be established, it wasn't a profit at the end of a profit, but then it all went back to the public office. When it comes to Ptuj and the surrounding area, I am especially attentive or a real bulldog, quite frankly speaking when it comes to local interests. And the fact that we have this selection-testing centre Ptuj is very important for us as well as for the environment, and even in the Slovenian scale, to preserve these indigenous seeds. I want to know: Will these workers who will be transferred to this Center for the Autochthonous Species of Seeds, d.o.o., keep their jobs or how will these contracts be handled? Will it be forgiven as part of this transfer, and what is the future? Will this part of the Selection and Experimental Centre really end up at the Agricultural Institute as part of this collection or part of the Institute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much for these additional questions. As I said in the introduction, a direct transfer to KIS would not be possible from a purely legal point of view. Indeed, the founder of KIS is the Republic of Slovenia, but when we have spoken here primarily with SDH, in what way to implement these procedures, we have already found, as I said, that in this case this temporary society is the best possible solution. In any event, direct transfer of assets would not be possible to a public institution, free transfer. This has been explained to us by economists, and this time I only tolerate what they have explained to me. That is why society has also, of course, decided with the support of our ministry and prepared government material to establish a temporary society. Now whether it's part or part of a public institution, we're really just talking about temporary society. As I said, by the end of March we must make all the legal basis for the transfer of this governance. Firstly, management of another institution that controls whether it is a Agricultural Institute or anyone else and, on the other hand, the transfer of ownership to the account of the Republic of Slovenia. And that also makes this temporary society virtually shut down. I fully agree on the profits here. Those who manage this Ptuj Selection and Trial Centre will also perform some kind of public service, which I have already mentioned, that we will also finance from our resources, budgetary resources, and, on the other hand, will also carry out some economic activity, that is to say, the sale of seeds, because we want these seeds, which are now available at this Selection and Trial Centre, to be selected, reproduced, also at the end of the shelves, to the market, so that, not least, Slovenian buyers can buy them, sow them, and thus remain alive in the long term. That is the essential purpose of this transfer. Workers have already been transferred and keep jobs. Here, according to my information, there is no fear for any job and I have not received any other information as far as this work is concerned. Whether it goes to the Agricultural Institute or somewhere else, let me add that there were more interests here. Both the Agricultural Institute and the Agricultural and Economic Institute of Ptuj are extremely interested in taking over this centre, but let me add that, while we were looking for these legal bases, we were also looking for a suitable manager, and at this point I can also say that we have already done some kind of procedure at the Ministry and selected the Agricultural Institute as the manager of this work, as the Agricultural Institute is already carrying out the public tasks already mentioned in the field of plant production and also the [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Comrade Korazi, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u62	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. I have a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate on this subject here in the National Assembly. When we talk about these indigenous Slovenian seeds, we are also talking about self-sustainment and I would also like to point out, which has also been mentioned several times in the media and also from experts, that many people, as well as customers or users, are afraid that they will be left without the seeds of the Ljubljana motorist and ice cream. As they were also very interesting statements made by this new owner, it is said that Villager Serbia would be able to continue to produce and sell these seeds at the beginning, and, on the other hand, it was not clear for the future how and what it would do. The second issue is also problematic. Certain properties will also be transferred to this centre as part of this transfer, and I am afraid and I hope that it will not be possible for certain properties to be sold as part of this transfer, or even after the Center for the Autochthonous Seed Variety, d.o.o., to take over fully, I will say, this kind of membership until the final takeover or sale. Once again, as it is the environment from which I come and there are also very many questions on the ground, including experts, I would like or would like to have a wider debate in the National Assembly, because we are really talking about our future, which must certainly be self-sustaining and, on the other hand, we also have a lot of these Slovenian indigenous seeds that we need to preserve and also pass on to the next generation, so that we will not just be the ones who will, I will say, profit or who already have some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Mr Minister will also answer the question of Natasha Sukič in relation to fertilisation and nuclei. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I think I owe you an apology, too, but the reason is the same as before. About the affluences. Restoration of forests is extremely important for Slovenia or should I start elsewhere. In Slovenia, we carry out sustainable sonar use of forests. The holocausts are forbidden. However, if we look at some of the surfaces of Slovenian forests today, we have a feeling that there have been some goloseks. Most, the vast majority of these cuts were based on the removal of basements, natural disasters, pharynx, and windshields. Let me mention that I myself had the opportunity to see some forests over a thousand metres above sea level, where there was only a tree left. And it's not the gonorrhea, it's the sanitary section. In this case, everything needs to be cleaned up. As a good master, they tend to clean up, cut down, clean up everything that is still valuable in such forests. Of course, urea remains in the soil in some cases, but of course it also takes care of soil restoration and so on. I started at this end because I would also like to mention one brief concept of afforestation that we will be able to distinguish it. In the Slovenian forests, when we talk about the rehabilitation of natural conditions and so on, we are not practically talking about afforestation, but we are talking about artificial reconstruction. In fact, it's the same thing, but just pure taxonomal fertilization basically means that we're going to some non-slip surface to replant something. We do not practically perform systematic afforestation in Slovenia, afforestation on non-sodium surfaces, because Slovenia is rich in forests, 58% of which we have. We also know when we are talking about agricultural policy, we are trying in a reverse direction, that is to say that we are eliminating the pollution, that we are investing new areas for agricultural use, where this is possible and where the interest is. So we are doing some of the activities in the opposite direction. Therefore, we do not carry out systematic reforestation, but we are carrying out systematic reforestation on both the artificial and the natural routes. And of course, most forests are restored naturally. Where that is not possible, we go to the artificial fruit of forest trees. Let me just give you some information for the last few years. For example, in nature, Slovenia was packed, recorded and packed over 20 million cubic metres of forest-forest ranges. In the last six years, virtually most cuts have been remedial consequences. Most of these are also the largest, most damaged forests being restored naturally. However, in the last three years, this is 2018, 2019 and 2020, when we have already completed the data, five thousand hectares of forest renewal took place, of which 2 000 or 1777 hectares have been planted. 4.3 million orchards of forest trees were planted 30 different species of trees, thus also caring for biodiversity, forest resistance and so on. From this point of view, we have somehow estimated that artificial forest restoration is more intensively implemented in shares mainly in state forests and less intensive in private. We certainly have a very large reserve here, and we want private forest owners to invest more intensively in both reconstruction and forest care. As I have said many times, the Slovenian forest doesn't care if it grows three hundred cubic metres of quality wood varieties or 300 cubic pounds of wood. We want owners, and the country also wants to have as many quality forest forest ranges as possible in the forests because of the forest chain itself in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me add at the conclusion only the idea that, despite all the natural perceptions in recent years, especially since 2014, when we had our stomachs, our tentacles, storms and so on, today the situation in the Slovenian forests is significantly better than it was 50, 60 years ago. We have tripled wood stocks, we have increased the forest area from 36% to 58%, and we want to reverse this trend sooner than we want to increase it. Annual growth is also significantly larger than it was then. Today we are talking about an average of 7 cubic meters per hectare per year.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. Let me tell the public that they'll know why I asked. Because a national fertilization campaign has been taking place in neighbouring Croatia since 2019, but as I can see, we are very good at this, as I now hear. In reforestation, we have a different situation than neighbouring Croatia. There's something else I want to know. In the light of the climate crisis, which is a challenge for our generation and future generations, efforts should be made not only to restore forests or afforestation, whatever we say, but also to intensify urban centres and larger settlements. I want to know: How is this intensive greening of urban centres? What are the plans? Is anything already in progress? What are the plans for the future? How are you going to limit any reckless, scrupulous logging in forests or settlements? Do we then replace roads when we have to cut trees because of construction operations? Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much for the additional question. Yes, I agree. Some European Union countries are intensely referring to afforestation in the true sense of the word. We are extremely different countries, from the Netherlands, Ireland, which have around, I estimate, 10% of the country's area covered by forests, Slovenia, Sweden, Finland, where we are close to 60% if I take the average and all in between. Some countries want to emulate and also want to develop some agricultural practices, which we are also referring to in the Slovenian strategic plan that we sent to Brussels, namely, the planting of borders as a contribution to biodiversity for predators, that is to say natural pests, our agricultural pests and so on, which I believe will really prevent a wide range of problems in agriculture, such as wind erosion, we remember in Vipavska almost ten years ago, I do not know, and so on. What we have been cleaning for decades, now with measures, with financial incentives, we are developing back because we are also benefiting the agricultural area from less plant protection products. So we can be more environmentally oriented. As far as the climate crisis is concerned, this is already one part of the answer to this question of yours, what are we planning in this part, that the agricultural landscape we want to give back that soul of the agricultural landscape. On the other hand, we also want to increase the number of trees in Slovenia through various actions. Let me repeat only some of the actions that will be organised with or with partners by others: Renovate Slovenian forests, Neglect Slovenian forests, this year a very recognized initiative, the initiative of the Beelar Association of Slovenia, when we talk about all-Slovenian planting of honeydew plants. I think the last Saturday of March will be the day of this planting. And our ministry will actively participate in this work as will many other stakeholders. With regard to the very greening of urban centres, this goes beyond my department. This is actually in the domain of local communities. We would like more of these park areas in cities, and not least, we are not so modest. Ljubljana is one of the greenest cities in the European Union. As far as reckless logging is concerned, let me add that with us every section runs on the basis of decisions of the Slovenian Institute for Forests. If the cuts are legal, then they must not be reckless. Otherwise, all such questions are addressed through a forestry inspection. I also get quite a few initiatives myself, and I always address these initiatives to the forestry inspection and ask them to go for a review. Also in substitution, there are many challenges here, but we do not want to replace ourselves on agricultural surfaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. The question will be asked by Lidija Divac Mirnik, Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Nice greeting, Minister, Madam Secretary! Colleagues, colleagues! My question today is as follows. Government measures to limit the spread of covid have increased risk factors for the development of mental diseases. Among other things, a number of unreasonable or unreasonable measures have been taken that have proved not to be essential to curbing the spread of the virus, as well as measures that have cut young people off from friendly contacts and the most basic activities needed for their normal development. One such case was the record closing of schools. Of course, mental disorders in children and adolescents were not caused by the covida epidemic, but the epidemic certainly spread them and accelerated them. As a result of the epidemic, emotional, behavioural disorders are on the rise, causing changes in the environment, family, society, including changed patterns, including communication, including the various pressures children face. Especially are those children and those who do not have so much support in the family or in schools and those who are worse off in some of the new circumstances that have arisen for them, as well as those who are already prone to some mental disorder. The closure of schools, and in our country, because of the unimaginable actions of this government, we had a record-long closed school, and for young people, it is a loss of an important source of support and assistance. At the time, they faced a lack of involvement in peer groups, learning, playing, socializing, conversations. In addition, some teachers and professional workers in schools for a number of children are one of the most important areas of social activity and interaction. The damage that children will suffer from all these measures taken by this government is unimaginable and we do not yet know what lies ahead. Let me point out that in 2020 there were 15% more suicide attempts than in 2019 and that accessibility to psychiatrists and other professional assistance also decreased in 2020. That's why, Minister, my first question: How do you estimate today, after almost two years of epidemics, that measures to control the spread of the virus have affected the mental health of people, how do children, adolescents? How has the closure of schools affected the mental health of young people? Have you done any research, any analysis in this area? What concrete measures do you foresee in the future that, I say, you will be able to remedy the consequences of the epidemic on the mental health of children and adolescents?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Lady Lydia Divac Mirnik! Thank you very much for the question raised on the mental health of children and adolescents, because this is an important area that we are giving a lot of attention to at the Ministry of Health and also at the Ministry of Education. A resolution in the national mental health programme, which is the first strategic document to regulate this area, was adopted in 2018 to seek better and more sustainable systems in the field of mental health. In the process of cross-cutting coordination as an upgrade, the Action Plan, which sets out precisely the actions of the activities and operators, indicators, deadlines and financial resources until the end of 2023 in this area. As you said, the covida-19 epidemic has not spared anyone, especially children and adolescents in the field of mental health. The Ministry of Health is therefore seeking to improve accessibility to the mental health services of children and adolescents and has placed this under its priorities. On 8 July 2021 the Government established the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Mental Health, which also addresses this issue. We've had two sessions of the world so far. When talking about measures to improve the situation, it is important to stress the acceleration of exposures and the upgrading of the network of mental health centres for children and adolescents operating at the primary health level. Most of the planned mental health centres are already in operation or are being established. There are currently 18 centres in operation and the rest are in exposure. This is how the centres for mental health of children and adolescents Brezovica, Celje, Murska Sobota, Ormož, Levels in Koroškem, Ptuj, Velenje, Trbovlje, Postojna, Nova Gorica, Jesenice, Maribor, Domžale, Posavje, Piran, Škofja Lokain two teams in Ljubljana operate. For the same reason, we have also provided for 30 specialisations of clinical psychologists in the intervention law, since the biggest obstacle to the rapid and sufficient expansion of the network is the lack of adequate personnel. The first public call for funding 10 specialisations of clinical psychologists was made last year. At the same time, with a more serious situation in the field of mental health for children and adolescents in 2021, we have already provided an additional 120 treatments in general agreement, or 10 permanent beds for emergency cases in the field of child and youth psychiatry at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, while also assigning two additional teams there. In September 2021, health personnel in the new day centre had already adopted their first children. We also increased the pedopsychiatric capacity by 30% in the area or in the functioning of the Maribor University Clinical Centre. So much for the starting points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now, as long as it's time, we'll probably continue. Also in the Ministry of Education, of course, we monitor with all due care the special mental state of our children in the educational process. In this light, in the course of the adoption of 10 anti-Korona laws, we have also paid special attention to these measures, and not only to measures, but also financially. But what we have done in particular, I believe that I will have a chance to say further in my reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Colleague Divac Mirnik, you have the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you. I'm glad that, above all, Minister Poklukar, you have given and are aware of this problem. I believe you're aware of that, too. Nevertheless, we need to know that mental health is as important as physical health. Because of poor mental health, physical health can also deteriorate, we all know that, and this is particularly problematic in children and adolescents. So I'm glad that you're also paying more attention to this at the Ministry. There are several causes of an increase in mental disorders during the epidemic. This period is characterised by instability, uncertainty, inconsistency and also by the unpredictability of life. Children at this time needed continuity, predictability and clear limits, but you have broken them by your actions. That's why I'm interested in the following: Have all the measures you have taken been considered from a psychological point of view? Have any assessments been made as to how these individual measures will affect mental health? Madam Minister, why did you then allow such a long-term closure of educational institutions? Do you feel responsible for the damage that has occurred to children and adolescents, of course, in their mental health? Plus, it's an extra one. During this time, we also know that some parents are opposed to codifying school measures, so they do not send their children to school at that time. I think I've read somewhere that the number of these parents and these children who don't go to school is dropping. However, specifically, Madam Minister, I ask: What measures will you take to include these children back in school and thus prevent them from continuing to harm their mental health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Before I proceed with concrete measures and some answers to your questions, I must first really point out once again. At the time of the outbreak in Slovenia, the school was not interrupted for one day. For the sake of health protection and safety for a certain period of time, education has been transferred far away from the world as it has been throughout the world. But it didn't stop for a day. However, I certainly agree with and support all the evaluations of the profession, that, of course, this distance education has also left some children with consequences and that these consequences must now be carefully addressed in an appropriate professional manner. How are we doing this at the department now? In November of last year, we allocated 185 additional positions of advisory staff in primary schools, 17 posts in primary schools with an adapted programme and in institutions for the education and education of children and young people with special needs. In the field of secondary schools and student homes, we finance an additional 49 advisory workers. All of this amounts to an additional EUR 9 million in financial terms. In order to facilitate the work of consultants, they have set up a comprehensive overhaul of one application system that allows the electronic implementation of registration procedures and, in this context, facilitate the work mainly for professional consultants, who can then give their attention to children in addition to the administration. In the annual plan of work of the Slovenian Institute of Education for this year we have placed a special task, a revision of the programme guidelines for advisory services in kindergarten, in primary, secondary schools. In the programme training system we introduced 19 different training programmes on mental health, almost 400 educational hours, over 700 planned participants participated. There is a total of 5,000 and a few more hours in total in all programmes, which are 264, which are at least wider in terms of social and emotional competences. Ten thousand participants attended. This year, it is in preparation, now only a matter of days, the launch of a targeted research project entitled Monitoring and improving individual assistance to students in covid and post-covid situations – the area of anxiety, overcoming the feeling of anxiety. We're working with the NIJZ, working with the Ministry of Health. It's something that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yes, you can. Mag. Marko Koprivc [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u80	I'm sorry, I understand, President, that you understand that you want to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u81	You can only have a procedural proposal, but you didn't sign up for it. That's what I asked you, and you said no. [[advertising from the hall]] Lydia Divac Mirnik, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Please be clear with your own [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. I guess we didn't get along, but nothing about that. I am pleased, Madam Minister, that you have said that the Ministry is aware that you have also increased funds for these new employees who are dealing with children, because this is a pressing issue to be addressed immediately, right now, today, actually yesterday. We don't have time to wait here, even though what the Minister said before, what's going on with the pedopsychiatrics and these full capacity. Also, waiting more than a year for professional assistance is absolutely unacceptable. I am therefore pleased that you are aware of this and that these measures, or at least to say so, will help to reduce the difficulties in children at least a little. Now, specifically in this action plan, which you have been talking about, Minister Poklukar, I would like to know what is in there, what is in particular recorded in this action plan, which has obviously not yet seen the light of the world since 2019. So that would be good, because now for two years we actively know that all the red lights burn in children and adolescents who are in distress. We can read it all over again. Last week, I think that suicide was in some elementary school, if I'm not mistaken. In short, things are very, very, very problematic and difficult. Therefore, of course, they must be addressed immediately. I've also spoken to a lot of people to say, a practitioner, in the notes that deal with children, they work with them every day. For they meet each day with the feeling, behavior, and response of children and adolescents, and they see some moods and hardships that they do not even know that I am saying, understand or even conscious. And there is a need for this professional response, including with the Mira programme, which you did not talk about, and I believe you know where it is actually necessary to engage all the professionals: teaching, psychologically, medically and to combine this knowledge and to provide immediate assistance to these children and adolescents at this time. Practices often feel that this reaction of decision makers is more silent and too slow. But I really want him to listen to these people who work with children and finally offer them the help they need, because they are now working with such children. I really want to actively drive these programs right now and give help to everyone. I would also suggest that the National Assembly hold a debate on my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. The next one is mag. Marko Koprivc, who will question the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! Dear and venerable all present! Look, I think it is clear to everyone that any better observer of Slovenian internal policy and, above all, the functioning of this government is that the main objective of this government is to submit all independent institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. I will not say that only the Ministry of Education is following, but even one of the protagonists in this area. And the lack of action of the Minister himself, because she does not feel it, but is subordinated to the Chief, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, look, in the past we have witnessed a number of non-professional staffing and services, which you have directed primarily to supporters of the government of Janez Janša or to supporters of the President himself and his friends. We have, I hope, witnessed the impact on Slovenian higher education, you will remember how you have awarded unnecessary concessions to private schools, private higher education institutions for programmes implemented in quality public schools. You'll remember how you shared funds with these same friends, owners of private higher education institutions. Even the Anti-Corruption Commission has pointed out that this is unacceptable. And when we think that the bottom has already been reached, we were informed a few days ago that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the support of the Management Board, has already rejected the candidate of the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia for the second time, despite the fact that it is a complete profession, the Management Board, the Union and everyone else have given a positive opinion or supported the proposal of the Management Board. What did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do about it? In addition to rejecting a candidate who was given a green light by the board of directors, the board of directors also suspended itself. It's so obvious it's already disgusting. At least we'd try to make things a little more subtle. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: Why did you not follow the proposal of the section and the board of directors and give your consent to the appointment of the candidate? What is your purpose? We know that a new roof law was passed months ago in the field of science, which, of course, is a major contribution to the field of science. This law was largely prepared under the previous government, under the Ministry of Minister Pikal. However, this law confers even greater powers on the ARS. The ADR should amend the key sub-legislative acts for the implementation of this law in the coming weeks, months. And you. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Koprivec – Koprivc, I apologize, in fact you have answered a lot in the end with your question already. But I'm gonna give you a little history first so people know what it's all about. The former Director of the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Repnik, is 1. Last year he resigned his employment contract for health reasons. I thank him first in this place for all the work he has done, and I wish him well in his recovery. The work he took was difficult, even before the new law was passed. It also needed primarily a thorough restructuring of the part of the Agency itself, as this was precisely the case for some major problems in the important implementation of the research policy in Slovenia. By adopting a new law, and I believe that by also confirming the developmental research strategy for the next decade, which is also on your working table right now, I understand that in February on the committee and I hope that, in the plenary session, we have laid the foundations of a modern, not just European, but globally comparable research activity of our country, a work where we can, in fact, be internationally competitive and competent. For all the reasons mentioned above, i.e. due to the introduction of new ones, I will say, modern, political and professional orientations, due to the need for restructuring in the introduction of new business processes, in this light of the situation created by, as has been said, the disease of the Director-General so far, we have asked the board of directors, and this has also been clearly communicated in our decisions to seek a candidate who, in addition to the two characteristics mentioned above, has this non-burden that does not come within the structure of the agency. The members of the Management Board knew about this and were informed and voted as they voted. I believe they voted on their responsibility and assessed. However, they did not follow the fundamental expectations of the founder and the fundamental expectations of those who, as you rightly say, will be held accountable if the matter is not taken in the right direction. The choice, however, is the next issue that you are having a problem with, the choice of a new director of the Agency, who has taken up his mandate today, and I also wish him all the best in a very difficult job. What can I tell you? If you type in Google's name, you'll get a CV right on your palm. I suggest that this is done by all those who are interested in this to raise any doubts about the competence of the Director-General. About competence, which is absolutely beyond the borders of Slovenia and is at the level of global excellence. We are talking about a candidate who has been working practically since 2005 in managerial positions both within practice and in the scientific research process, which is a regular professor at the University of Ljubljana, since 2009, also working at the Faculty of Medicine, which is a mentor to six PhDs, three Masters of Science and so on. If you are also going to type the list of SICRIS, this is the factographic bibliography of the scientific research space in the Slovenian space, and I don't think there are any dilemmas anymore. Because we're gonna keep going, and then I'm gonna have to say some more.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivc, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. Look, I'm not gonna joke anything, I think you said the key. Let us once again clarify that citizens and citizens will understand. Now you're apologizing for how appropriate this candidate of yours is and up and down. But the fact, once again, in the Republic of Slovenia we have a stable system of appointing people to individual important functions. The Director of the ARRS or the Acting Director should be appointed by the Management Board. The Governing Board gave its own statement and did not support it or supported another person, a person who obtained a consent. You and the government opposed it. And not just that. Then you headed the board of directors to prevent that from happening again. It's about what I've been talking about before, subjugating all independent institutions. And such an attack on science is horrifying. Now I will read more about this opinion of SWIZ and what KosRIS believes about this as the umbrella organisation of the association of all research organisations in Slovenia. First of all: As a result, compliance with contractual obligations for the conduct of research activities and the implementation of regular calls and the preparation of sub-legislative acts relating to the Law on Scientific Research in Innovation are also at risk. We are particularly concerned about the latter, since it is only a few months away. In fact, it is too much to add that it is totally unacceptable that the Government has thus proposed its candidate without sufficient professional competence and that it is seriously jeopardising the normal functioning of the Slovenian scientific research system by doing so. Mrs. Kustec, that's what the unions say you should listen to. That's what the profession says. You're referring to the fact that he doesn't know where the written authority is. You acted as a government against the profession. And that's unacceptable. That's fascist. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the Minister, I would like to ask you to choose your terms, Your Honors and similar things and labels, and I will not allow you to ask any questions. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Let's go around two arguments. Around the argument of respect for legal facts and consistency and competence. From a legal point of view, we followed all the legal provisions that we have available as the responsible manager of the Public Agency for Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia. If we are to be truly exploratoryly strong, recognizable, then we need such a person at the head. A man who has respect, who has references, which is part of international networks, especially European networks. And we got him. And this to a man who believes me, if, I hope not, listens to such a view of himself, of science, then probably in the fullest sense he would never have to decide to do this very important, responsible and honorable and demanding work on behalf of the State and science and research. We're talking about top-notch scientists. And all I'm listening to here right now is one undignified argument on account and with people who have references that I believe that if we knew them, we might be choosing a different language to deal with. The professional reference in the field of science and academic work in general is something that does not fall from the sky, but is the product of many verifications, long-term work, acquisition of competences, progress. And that someone in such information hopes to talk about incompetence can only be spoken of by those who are equivalent to themselves. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Koprivc, you don't have to be impatient, I'll give you my word for a procedural proposal. But it's not up to you to jump into the word of ministers who answer. Here, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. No, I don't jump into words. All I did was raise my hand to warn you that I'd like to make a procedural call. First of all, Mrs Kustec, to explain this procedural proposal, I would like to respond to these statements that you wish to make to me that I am talking about some incompetence of this selected candidate of yours. That's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about the absolute inadmissibility of the procedure in which it was chosen. I am referring to the fact that the entire profession and the Management Board, whose task is to elect the Director, the Director, have chosen another person, who is also and in the opinion of the Section, even more competent. And it's scary that the government with the roller is simply overstepping the board's decision. And by the end of the day, that same board of directors will drop it. Previously, you told the Minister that this was all in line with the legal acts and so on. It's true, but it's distasteful, it's actually untasteful. The purpose of the Management Board should be to act autonomously. But you did because he decided differently than you would have wanted simply to replace him. What's different than the fascist submission of all the institutions in the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u93	Comrade Koprivc [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u94	I don't know what else it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u95	Comrade Koprivc, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u96	And you say it's normal and okay. It's not. I'm sorry, it's not! And that is why I think it is imperative, indeed, that the National Assembly conducts a broad debate on such subsidiaries of institutions in all areas. We are currently talking about the ARS area, which is key to the area of autonomous and independent science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Be respectful of people. That would touch you on the basis of your high level of education, and I can see that that doesn't work for you too well. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Eva Irgl will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John the Bricker King. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! Since the oath of this government, we have been meeting with the covida-19 pandemic, which has particularly marked institutional protection and the area of the elderly. Covid-19 also highlighted, if I may say so, the stepfather's attitude towards this area. That's why I want to know: What have you done in this mandate to end such a relationship with this area and to bring about some necessary, at least normal, living conditions for the elderly in the field of institutional protection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mrs Eva Irgle. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are aware that the field of investment in institutional protection of the elderly and also the area of investment in other social welfare institutions has been heavily maintained over the past decade. As you mentioned, we have come to realize this most brutally, and the residents and employees in these institutions have unfortunately felt brutally about the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic. At the start of our mandate, we began to expand the network of institutional protection by granting concessions. Thus, last March we awarded a concession for a thousand 285 new seats for users of institutional protection services in nursing homes for the whole of Slovenia, with the start of this year's activities. On 24 June last year, we launched a new public tender, the second in two years, for a thousand 100 new cities for concessions in the field of institutional protection in the homes for the elderly for the whole of Slovenia, whose results I can say – and I am glad that we can announce this in the temple of democracy – we have announced this today. The Sectoral Regulation on Minimum Technical Conditions for Social Security Providers was adopted in the longer term in 2006. In accordance with the rules of the Regulation, it is necessary to raise the quality of living in institutions, for example, accommodation in single or double rooms with private bathrooms within residential units with a limited number of residents and common social facilities, and the formal arrangement of the area has not been adequately supported by investment funds, so that in the past 15 years investment in homes has been very limited and did not allow the accommodation to be adapted, especially for residents and residents, our grandmothers and grandparents to provide decent housing. As you can see, this was particularly evident during the first wave of covida-19. The spatial problem of public welfare institutions is very diverse and wide-ranging and cannot be fully addressed within one or two budgets. We are pleased, however, that in the period 2020-2023 we have been able to prepare and provide funding for several ten investment projects according to the source of funding. Together we have, I can say, 108 construction sites opened in Slovenia. These are the following groups of projects. ERDF, priority axis 9, Social inclusion and reduction of the risk of poverty for the construction of daily centres and temporary accommodation in the period 2021 and 2023, approximately €27 million, poor 19 million cohesion, the remaining Republic of Slovenia. 22 projects of daily centres and short-term accommodation, which are implemented throughout Slovenia, are co-financed. Some, such as in Žalec, have already been completed and we have already had an opening, so that, together with the users of services there, I can already cheer up the opening and functioning of this day centre. Then we have an invitation to co-finance investments in infrastructure to set up housing groups for persons under 65 years of age. Between 2021 and 2023, €7 million is earmarked for their establishment. In the first two years, we have allocated funds to co-finance the construction or arrangement of 11 housing groups. The selection of projects within the third deadline shall also be concluded. The call from the React-EU Fund, which I would say, was an additional source from the previous multi-annual financial perspective for the period 2014-2020, the priority area of strengthening resilience in the area of social protection for older people and services under the long-term care system. In the context of this tender, which is known briefly as a call from the React Fund, €93 million has been allocated for the co-financing of 18 investment projects. Among the major projects co-financed by this mechanism are the replacement construction of the home of the elderly in Ajdovščina, the construction of the external unit DSO Ptuj, the renovation of the home of the elderly in Murska Sobota and Velenj. I still have some resources that I'll probably be able to add further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ambassador Irgle, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to make this supplement. Mr Minister, I thank you for this rather comprehensive answer in this first part. However, I should say here that, as President of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, I have visited several homes of older citizens and other forms of institutional protection in Slovenia. And we are all aware that it is a very substandard system, that it is not enough, as you have already said, to invest in the homes of older citizens. It is also important that, over and over again, when I visited a home, I faced two challenges, the lack of spatial capacity, as you yourself have already said, and the lack of specific personnel. In the first wave of the covida-19 epidemic, which has gripped us, you have invested an additional EUR 26 million for this particular section of staff without delay, and I know that all those who are connected to the homes of older citizens have been grateful for this. I come from Vipava, the Vipavska Valley, and I am glad that we will build a new home for older citizens also in Ajdovščina, as you have already mentioned, because the current home does not meet the 2006 living standards and the new construction will certainly significantly improve the quality of living for the elderly and also somehow improve their autumn life. In short, so I'm very happy, I've been fighting for it all along. This is an important project. And I want to know: How will you improve the environment in the homes of older citizens and other forms of institutional protection by not leaving and even getting an extra one? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Member, thank you for the additional question, the extremely important issue of properly trained personnel in all social security institutions is a pressing challenge, which, as you have already mentioned, is quite a success, I can say, we have been facing since the beginning of the epidemic. Allow me to conclude, first of all, the story on investments from different sources, which I owe to information about the last source, namely the budget source – investment projects financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2022 and 2023. For these investments, we have planned a considerable amount of resources, namely, a good 10 million for business premises and protective work centres, then 5.7 million for business premises and training equipment for the so-called CUDV, for the provision, maintenance and equipment of special social security institutions 5 million and for the home network programme for the elderly as much as 66.6 million euros. Among the projects that are in operation or in preparation, i.e. financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I can expose the replacement construction of the home of the older citizens of Hrastnik, the completion of the external unit at home in Osilnica, the construction of the unit at home in Bovec, Črenšovci, Podčetrk, Kozjem, Sveti Ana, the headquarter of the home in Slovenia Bistrica, reconstruction or adaptation with a view to adapting the home in Kamnik, Trebnje, Petrov Brdo. Projects of VDC residential units in Velenje, Slovenian Konjica, Cerknica, Šmarnem pod Šmarno gora, Zagorje ob Savi, VDC workshop in Trebnje and many others are being built or prepared. If I mention any more CUDV – finishing the kitchen arrangements in Dornava, preparing the construction, setting up the CUDV Črna, Radovljica, Dobrna, the arrangements of the CUDV IG unit and purchasing the facility for the purposes of the Dornava residential unit, building the classroom, implementing the adapted programme in education and education also for the Dornava ZUDV. Also in preparation is the project of construction of external housing units for SVZ Hrastovec, the Social Protection Institute of Hrastovec in Lenart. The projects are huge. How, though, do we ensure that the staff stays and comes new? In the first round of negotiations with the competent unions, the Minister of Health and I managed to negotiate higher wages for the most burdened in these professions in the record time and in cooperation with all. Now, on Saturday, we start with the adopted starting points in the government's second round to be another group. The third thing is that I also call on all Members and Members to raise the net salary for all employees, because with higher wages, we will be able to keep young people there under better working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. We are both aware that this is an extremely important topic, important issues. Caring for the elderly is one of the priorities of this government, including the important theme of the committee I lead, and we also call many meetings on this topic. The opposition Members also point to some things that would be good to correct and eliminate. So I propose, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that we discuss this broader debate, that we also tell what has been done in the field of caring for the elderly, and that we also put forward any other visions and see what else we can really improve. So I, the President-in-Office, propose a debate on this issue in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, as I have told you, I am essentially interested in a very brief development around the sale of Sava Turism. In view of the public's reactions, I think they are fully justified, and I think we should slowly come to a clear understanding of what is going on with this matter. It is one of the most important industries in the country, which employs about 40,000 people and contributes annually to 13% of Slovenian GDP in good times. The union also recalls the bad experiences we had in the past with the sale of hotels to foreign owners, especially – I come from this area – the sale of hotels to Metropolis and Term Lendava Hungary and so on. What has proved to be true in the case of such sales to foreign private parties was that forgiveness, overrepresentation of services in the sector and, of course, making profits ahead of the interests of companies and hotels and wider. On the basis of these poor experiences, of course, as a country, we should work primarily to change the concept of government management in some way. Where possible, the country should also enter and assist economic operators, in this case Savi Tourism, in order to have more national, in order for the economy to exercise social and environmental, not just financial functions. What's the key question is what's going to happen to Savo Turism. After reporting some media, SDH had already spoken to the York Fund half a year ago for the purchase of this share, so that Sava Tourism would be entirely in Slovenian ownership, but SDH would in fact have set such conditions for York to withdraw from it. We have heard a great deal of promise from the Minister for the Economy, as well as from SDH representatives, that the sale to the Hungarian Fund, which is in the circle of President Orban, will not take place, but at the same time we read that the contract is practically concluded and that only a purchase transfer awaits. That's why I'm interested in two simple questions: Has the government, through SDH, ever tried to enforce a preliminary right or to buy York's share in Savi Tourism? Is there any other real possibility at this point that the State will exercise this pre-emptive right or buy this share in York and thus acquire majority ownership of Sava Tourism in state hands?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I would like to somehow conceptually round up this answer, but on the basis of a question some things are not exactly defined and should actually be. For we have the company of Sava, d. d., and we have the company of Sava Turizem. Sava, d. d., actually has its share in Savi Tourism. The other thing I want to say here is that in this case, which is known in public, we are talking about two private companies, foreigners. Of course, as I understand it, the government certainly cannot perform in some civil relations. York is a respected financial institution. Just as I understand, so-called Hungarian fund, which is also an international financial institution. And I'm going to say quite frankly that, of course, I'm not really studying some of the news that's on the web portals. The question is whether the government has tried to buy it back. Today we have an orderly management of state property through SDH. SDH and the government take corporate governance into account, which means that, of course, the government as a political institution does not affect transactions relating to individual business events. You probably fully agree with this, and this is also in line with the OECD guidelines that we need to defend here. So I want to say here that owners, including SDH and Kad, are independent, must respect certain principles of economy. And, of course, you can't expect politicians to dictate what to buy and what to sell. So from this point of view, of course, is there any possibility for the government to buy it and so on, see, the government does not buy and sell in such cases when it gives in the management of its state assets SDH. And once again, here to get involved in some transactions between civil law enforcement officials, look, I don't think that's exactly in line with corporate governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you. Comrade Shirtzel, I think he's involved, if this term is already used, he's already the Minister of Economy. He made it very clear to the public that the government will endeavour through SDH to exercise the pre-emptive right. I think it was a public discourse, not some thing you should be combing into the media for, but something that was probably talked about at this level. And I don't buy this interpretation that you've left everything there for SDH and let SDH work alone. Then we wouldn't replace all the members of the board and the board of directors of SDH, etc., just like you did in various state companies. I mean, the fact is, if any government that essentially supported the management of state property was the government of Janez Janša in 2004-2008 and later. So it's really simple for me here, but SDH is, his representatives have been talking about the possibility that a pre-emptive right can be exercised. I was talking about the SDH leadership talking to York about the ransom. I mean, I'm surprised the Minister of Finance or government representatives don't know anything about this. It is true that SDH manages state property, but what happens to state property, government and government representatives must also know about such transactions. And I was talking about the recent withdrawal of the brakes, setting some additional conditions for this York Fund, which is why they're moving away from selling SDH their share and which is why Hungarians are entering. You know, the public rightly wonders whether this is actually some deliberate gesture that will allow Orban's friends to enter a very important portfolio of hotel investments in the Republic of Slovenia in exchange for some services of course. So once again, according to your information, I think, as Minister of Finance, we should know that. If you don't know they're talking about selling this share, I don't know what you're doing in that chair.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u114	I'm quite aware of what I'm doing as Minister of Finance. And, of course, I also know which things fall within the competence of the Minister of Finance and which, of course, the Minister of Finance is also informed. As mentioned above, the management of state property is based on a strategy. We can also talk about the annual management plan. We are also talking about contracts, of course. These contracts are a matter of SDH supervisory authorities and are a matter of SDH management bodies and also Kad. Whatever we take, if sales as some media claim and you claim, part Save, d. d., or Save Tourism, now I don't know, you tell them, then of course the only question is that one private institution sells to another private institution. Here I would argue that we appoint members of the SDH Supervisory Board and so on. Look, this is where they were appointed by the National Assembly, and the Supervisory Board sets up the National Assembly. They're being proposed by the government. I agree, others can propose them. So from this point of view, the appointment of overseers is no different from that of the past. Once again, this National Assembly has determined that SDH is the one who will manage state assets. Even with any sale of property that York has today, which is a private private institution, another private institution, the Kad and SDH have, of course, still the majority. And here in the ownership structure, nothing really changes, they have more than 50%. As a result, I do not see that anything can actually change, one private investor is confused with another.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anžet Logar, and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku. The last one's gone. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The Honourable Minister, Dr. Ange Logar! The government and the foreign ministry always stress that they successfully resolve and strengthen their relations with their neighbours. And we all know that we cannot choose our neighbours, so relations with them must be good, orderly and based on respect and mutual cooperation. Since the breakup of Yugoslavia, we have been regulating relations with the former republics. And given that the marriage community has fallen apart in misunderstandings, many open issues have remained open, and this is particularly true for the Republic of Croatia, with which we have had good economic, cultural relations in the past. The problem, however, is, of course, the distribution of common assets. And in this sense, I am referring to the agreements and decisions of the courts that have been adopted and judged. In view of the fact that the court has identified one problem, resolved and the neighbours somehow disagreed with the judgments and we also had a closed session of the committee on Friday, at which you gave the appropriate explanations, and yet we are essentially interested, another assurance regarding the silent diplomacy that the arrangements are in line with the strategic direction of our country, because in Slovenia we cannot somehow lose the sense that the neighbour is signing agreements with the figa in his pocket, and then, when they need to be implemented and implemented, he is kind of stinking. And even in this light, of course, we also have one such experience when neighbours of Croatia and the Italians put us ahead of the fact that they declared the economic zone. Therefore, it is also important to ensure that this silent diplomacy, at least as far as Croatia is concerned, takes place through agreements and with all Parliament resolutions that we have concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you so much for asking me that question. As regards the continuation of Friday's closed session, the Member requests once again to ensure that the agreements that Slovenia or the Slovenian Foreign Ministry has with neighbouring countries are in line with the strategic interests enshrined in our core documents, which are adopted in our strategic resolutions and declarations, which have been confirmed here in the National Assembly and also in international treaties, or by establishing judicially determined, definitive positions. I am primarily referring to an arbitral judgment here. I can assure the Member, as I have already done on Friday, that the Slovenian Foreign Ministry is always acting in accordance with these principles, we are finally bound by the Foreign Affairs Act, where we are also somehow the guardians of these international treaties and commitments. With regard to the issue of agreement with the other neighbours on the exclusive ecological zone, I should like to recall once again what I have said before the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy that, in our dialogue with the two neighbours, we have been able to agree on the trilateral participation of the three countries of the North Adriatic, where, on the basis of the decision of the two countries on the exclusive ecological zone in the North Adriatic, we are able to secure our strategic interests within this trilateral. However, I also said at that time that the arbitral judgment also led these two countries to declare the exclusive ecological zone and they merely carried out what, in fact, is also a guidance from the European Commission to all Member States where this possibility exists to do so. I think Croatia has also been the last country to take advantage of this, if possible. In this respect, all these actions are in line with the normative basis and with the instructions or recommendations of the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your answer. The second part of my question, of course, concerns relations with the Republic of Hungary. I will not go into value judgements on politics, but we still have a feeling in Slovenia that an increase in Hungarian influence in Slovenia is allowed uncritically. Remember, the Slovenian government wanted to include the Hungarian partner in the second track project. At 400 kilometers long section, she wanted to insert a cartridge that would allow the construction of five kilometers of track into the system, at least in my opinion, to introduce one systemic disorder. It also sells land by the sea and, finally, sells the strategic tourism industry, one fund to another. Finally, we are also witnessing the strong investment of Hungary in the Lendava area, even the football club is financed by this money. And somehow we don't seem logical or at least think that this allows for an increase in the influence of the neighbouring country without requiring reciprocity. For example, the construction of five kilometres of roads around Budapest or the purchase of land along the Blatna lake or some share in Hungarian Hévíz. That's why I want to know: Is this relationship about strengthening the mutual influences of one country in another country, or is it just unilateral? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you. I must say, I am not the right address for answers to such a question. First, let me say that the Slovenian economy is highly export-oriented and that the share of Slovenian exports of goods and services in the proportion of GDP in 2020 was 85% and that many Slovenian companies depend on it. The added value in this sector is €51 000, which is above average. Now, if we compare foreign direct investment in Slovenia – after the last comparison of Slovenia's investments on average, we are lagging 20% behind, which means that there is still a great potential for foreign direct investment in Slovenia. That is why at the end of the year the Government adopted a five-year programme to promote investment and internationalisation of the Slovenian economy and the aim is to ensure a 1.5% annual growth in foreign direct investment, based on measures taken to promote these international or foreign investments. In Slovenia, at the end of 2020, we had €16 billion of foreign direct investment, most of which was Austrian. From neighbouring countries we have, as already mentioned, 4.2 billion foreign investments from Austria, 1.2 billion foreign investments from Italy and one billion from Croatia, and 442 million from Hungary. Of the 6, therefore, the poor €7 billion investment of countries bordering Slovenia falls to the Republic of Hungary 6% of these investments. The increase in Hungarian investment took place in 2019. This is under the government led by Marjan Sarec, which grew from €59 million to €422 million. As you know, OTP Bank then bought 99.73 shares of SKB Bank. Your question of facilitating investment, without requiring reciprocity in Hungary, is a matter which is contrary to the basic treaties of the European Union. The Maastricht Treaty, from Articles 63 to 65 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, clearly recorded the free movement of capital as one of the four freedoms and any restriction is contrary to the law and would constitute an inflation, i.e. the European Commission's procedure against Slovenia. Just for information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Raj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your answer. I think that's a very correct answer. Thank you. I think that this is a very important topic that we should discuss in depth, since it is essentially matters relating to strategic infrastructure. We think that the country should have a review here and also that in a balanced way, in any way to protect these interests, they should be equal. If someone wants to have a presence in the strategic infrastructure of one country, whatever it is possible to do so, choose reciprocity. I therefore ask that we discuss this at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Joseph Horvat will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anžet Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Dr. Logar! Together, a resilient Europe has been the slogan of our Presidency to the Council of the European Union. About one month ago, Slovenia completed its six-month presidency of the Council of the European Union and handed this responsibility to France. On December 16th, in Paris, you symbolically handed over the relay of the presidency to your colleague. On 14 January, the French Ambassador to Slovenia, Her Excellency Florence Ferrari, presented the priorities of the French Presidency to the Council of the European Union and thanked Slovenia for the incredible work she had done during the Presidency. She recalled the words of the French Minister for European and Foreign Affairs at the meeting with you, the Minister-General, when he said in December 2021 that Slovenia had made progress during the presidency in many areas, including in politically sensitive areas, and played an excellent role in the middle country. In Novi Slovenija, as an extremely pro-European party, we regret that in the last six months, little has been said about our good achievements by the entire ministerial team. There have been a lot of different events at different levels and my personal assessment is that we have put Slovenia back on an important map of Europe after several years of autsidising. Now I ask you, Mr Minister, and I ask you to present the achievements of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and its current role in the international space in these few minutes. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Ambassador Horvath for this question, because I have the opportunity to speak a little bit more about the presidency here in the National Assembly. In this respect, I think that all of us who have been involved in the Presidency, the President of the Government, all ministers of the Government of Slovenia and also the National Assembly with our activities in the Presidency, especially here, I think of the two COSAC conferences and the bilateral relations that you have had with representatives of foreign governments or countries, that we have done a very great deal of work together, for which we do not need to say nothing in fact about it, even I think it is necessary to commend ourselves with our work, because we have a number of dossiers and successfully completed roles within this Presidency, which we have also successfully carried out. As you know, here in the National Assembly, before the Presidency itself, when we represented the Presidency programme, I announced the hard work and momentum of all those involved in the Presidency project. Nevertheless, at the outset, there were many doubters who doubted and even publicly criticized our preparations for the presidency. Well, if you look at the results we have achieved in the area of resilience in the area of the recovery of the European economy on the basis of the green digital transition, in the field of legislative acts, in the field of European way of life, the rule of law and equal criteria for all and in the field of the European Union, which is able to provide security for its citizens as well as in the area of the Conference on the Future of Europe, we can, in fact, bear witness to the hard work and the great energy involved in this Presidency and the success of this Presidency. As you know, the aim of the presidency has been slightly changed this time to set two strategic objectives, namely, to build a health union and to build a sustainable union, which, with its digital and green transition at the same time as development and in some way based on technologically advanced transitions, will be able to provide a resilient European Union. We have set this as a prerequisite for all other activities of the European Union and in some ways long-term strategic development. Based on the experience of the pandemic, we have taken these first steps towards a structured approach to the issue of resilience and preparedness for crises. As you know, in the area of health, we have successfully concluded negotiations with the European Parliament on two key legislative proposals within the framework of the European Health Union. These two dossiers essentially give new powers and improve the functioning of two key European agencies, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the European Medicines Agency. Contrary to expectations and forecasts, we were able to successfully conclude negotiations on the establishment of a new European Authority for Preparedness and Response to Emergency Health Situations, so-called HERA, this was in the course of the expiry of our Presidency, if you remember, in December, when we were able to reach agreement between the Member States and between the institutions after the long negotiations and thus lay the groundwork for the French Presidency, probably later in the Czech Presidency, to bring this agency to life. In the area of cyber resistance, we have also achieved this important breakthrough. In the area of the Network and Information Security Directive, the so-called NIS Directive 2, this will strengthen the common capacity to respond to cyber attacks within the European Union and the General Affairs Council has also adopted conclusions on cyber security. I think I'm out of time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u130	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your time. Of course, it's a big deal. It would take hours and hours. My focus and special attention, of course, was also on the important steps that Slovenia has taken in the area of our common foreign and security policy. Now that's what I remember, when you're sitting next to the Secretary of Defense, you've actually been putting a lot of effort into this area. Of course, it would take us a long time to say at least a little bit about the success of the EU-Western Balkans Summit, the Brdo meeting, which we know was, in a way, the culmination of last year's Slovenian Presidency to the Council of the European Union, and certainly represents one of the most resounding political events in the history of our independent Slovenia. According to the scope of the delegations, if I may recall, and political representation, this is the largest multilateral event in the history of a single country. By the way, 33 Heads of State or Government and ten senior representatives of international organisations were in a hurry on Brdo. Here, of course, is the Conference on the Future of Europe, which we have started with, is very receptive. Please continue and, of course, if there is any other emphasis, especially on the EU-Western Balkans summit, what is the key shift after you and, of course, the Conference on the Future of Europe, if there is time.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. As far as the EU-Western Balkans summit is concerned, let me say that the circumstances in which Slovenia started discussions with the European partners and also with the institutions of the European Union on the preparation of this summit at the time of preparations for the presidency were, in some way, a relative restraint towards some more serious progress at this summit. Partly because some countries have had concerns about the continuation of enlargement, but also because it is a topic that is essentially also concerned with the issues of the European Union's strategic compass and adds this strategic component or this strategic thought, which means a direct impact on the policies and bonds that are already in place and which are rolling according to some normal agenda of the European Union. As you know, with the organisation of this EU-Western Balkans summit, we have also come to a number of international media, and some here in Slovenia, for reasons that are not understandable to me, have somehow mocked the idea of including the time component in the final declaration, i.e. the deadline by which the Western Balkan countries would become members of the European Union. As you know, this proposal by the President of the Government or the Slovenian Presidency has failed to penetrate, but we have broken through with other requirements that have in some way been a condition for us to have decided to do so. That is, the enlargement process is presented as a strategic component, the enlargement to the Western Balkans as a matter of the European Union's strategic approach, such as that of the word enlargement, you will not believe, and in the initial phase it was almost impossible to put the word enlargement into the final declaration, and then there was a declaration signed by all 27 Member States and 6 Western Balkan aspirants. In this respect, too, this reference to the EU-Western Balkans summit being held every year is that it will be a regular activity and will be a regular activity that will be on the agenda of the highest meetings of the Heads of Government and the Member States. That the success of this has also been noted in the European public, it is clear that even France, which did not at the outset predict that its President Macron had announced that such a summit would be convened in June, and the Czech Presidency is also predicting the organisation of such a summit in its priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for your answers, Mr Minister, although little time is available for some serious analysis. With what you said last, I absolutely agree. The enlargement process, according to our assessment, is the fundamental political tool of the European Union, but of course our values, the European values that connect us, are clear that they cannot be the subject of negotiations. Anyway, I've asked to make a proposal. I would like to introduce, Mr Vice-President, the provisions of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure and propose to the National Assembly that the answer of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to my very complex question be a broader debate at the next meeting. Why? Because it is the National Assembly that directs Slovenian foreign policy in accordance with the law and also in accordance with the Declaration on Foreign Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Yuri Lepo asked the Minister of Defence, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members of the New Slovenia and SDS have tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to supplement the Higher Education Act, which would allow the establishment and accreditation of the Higher Education Institute for the purposes of military education. It would be placed in the structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and would operate within the framework of the Centre of Military Schools. Such a radical change would, according to the vast majority, have significantly affected the system of military education in Slovenia, but the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act has apparently covered both the serious Ministry of Education and the Slovenian professional public, which was only informed of it after the introduction of the parliamentary procedure. I would like to remind you that in Slovenia we already have a well-designed and accredited quality specialist programme of defence education, but it is more than obvious that the proposed novel completely ignores this fact and wants to establish a new internal military institution that would be excluded from the public education system, which is not necessarily contrary to European trends. The proposed establishment of a military academy is also contrary to documents regulating the long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as they state that military education must be organised in cooperation with the public education, research system. On the contrary, the proposed novels provide for military studies to be closed to the public by the Minister of Defence in his organisation and operation. What's the biggest problem? On average, 15 people are enrolled in an officer's school in Slovenia on average every year, so many rightly ask about the eligibility of the establishment of a completely new higher education institution for just so many people. Since this is a major intervention in the military education system and in the Slovenian higher education area in general, I ask you: Why did you not consult the Slovenian professional public in the coalition prior to the submission and why a wider public debate was not held? Why has the Government not tabled the law on the proposal of the competent Ministry of Education as usual? Why have some coalition partners tabled a proposal for amendments to the Higher Education Act, even though it is opposed by the competent Ministry of Education, which is part of the SMC, which is why its Members did not want to contribute to the signing of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u138	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. The Slovenian army needs trained soldiers. In all these recent years, technology and knowledge have gone so far that we simply do not know without highly educated soldiers the operation of a high-tech army. We especially need young people, who are mainly technical education guidelines. For all these young people, the door to the Slovenian Army is wide open. Currently, we have a military-organised Centre of Military Schools, which educates military and military personnel at various levels. These educations are more or less quite long-term. In comparison, a young officer in his career has to take over the rank of colonel for over five years of various educations. But the fact is, these educations in civilian life are practically not much help. And the efforts of the military, the Ministry of Defence, are in two directions. The first is that all of these educations, carried out by soldiers at the Centre of Military Schools, are in some way recognized and accredited to be valid in their civilian lives, this is under one, and the second thing to start developing military sciences that are in accordance with the classification of special science. This is not the defence that the Faculty of Social Sciences carries out, because there is a difference between military sciences that are specific and are mainly involved in the military, and then you have a defence that is much broader and is of a different nature. That is why, at the beginning of my term of office, we have established a special inter-resortary group, where representatives of both the Ministry of Education and representatives of the Ministry of Defence were. This working group was led by the former Minister and also by Professor Grizold, and this working group worked intensively for one year and also came to concrete conclusions. These concrete conclusions were then reported to the Commission in the form of a specific report. The Ministry of Education was then asked to prepare amendments to the Higher Education Act, so that such education within the military could also be allowed, but there the process of drafting the Higher Education Act had somehow stalled. For this reason, at the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Centres of Military Schools, we have prepared a proposal for such amendments to the Higher Education Act. I have asked the Members myself if such a law could be passed as a bill. And the Members responded positively to my request, so the marriage was tabled. Following the introduction of this law, a broad debate began, which is not all right and so on. Many of these things have been completely out of the vine, because we have made it very clear, for the first time, that we want this system of military education within the existing public school system, that we don't want any particulars, that we want this programme to go through the NAKVIS, that it is accredited, that the professors are crippled, because if we don't do all this, then I can't imagine how it would be useful and yet applicable in, say, civilian life. In short, some of the discussions here were totally unnecessary. I myself, with the Chief of General Staff and the Chief of the Centre of Military Schools, received all four rectors, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the New York City and the seaside, together we sat at the same table and went through this proposal of law. We agreed – and here I thank them for their help – that we have removed all those perhaps unclear provisions, that the matter will be crystal clear, that it is a system within public education and that it applies exactly the same standards as in all other higher education institutions. Therefore, the Members tabled on 28 January, which is now a few days old, a new proposal for the text of the law, so that the proposal you discussed is now a lane. A new bill has been tabled, which also takes into account the comments of the rector conference, and I would like this law to be confirmed, of course, and that we will finally receive a modern military education, which will be an integral part of Slovenian public education.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Of course, you gave me a little light with your answer at the end of the tunnel, which I completely agree with. But the law that is now being tabled is not so, because I was preparing to list only a few responses to the proposal to establish your military academy. But now we're talking about this story that's currently being introduced into the marriage. The Department of Defence of the Faculty of Social Sciences fully opposes this proposal, because they are convinced that military education is too important to be regulated by only a small group of Members, and only with the amendment of three articles of the law, is it now. Next, the proposal is strongly opposed to education and education in the Union, as they also require the inclusion of a debate on the amendment of the Higher Education Act and stress that they will not agree to change for the benefit of private higher education institutions. This, according to the union, demonstrates the policy issue in order for a specific higher education institution to be completely excluded from the public education system and in contravention of other standards. Then, at the University of Ljubljana, they point out that such proposals have a strong impact on Slovenia's higher education space, which affects its quality and further development. They add that a detailed analysis and a broad public debate should be carried out before such important changes, where different stakeholders could present their opinions and find the best solutions on the basis of different views. Such a way of establishing the organisation and functioning of the new institution is also opposed by higher education experts who warn against the abolition of the autonomy of higher education, as well as at the Ministry of Education, since they do not follow the rules and regulations of the existing legislation. In view of your presentation in this part of your answer, please, if what I have just said has changed with the introduction of the new law. And certainly, if this is in agreement with all the Rectors of Universities in Slovenia, believe me, then there will be so many fewer problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Member, also for the opportunity for this question so that I can explain things. The new bill, which was replaced by the previous text, responds to all these challenges. If I comment on them for a moment. The matter will now be so arranged that we will have so-called military modules in line with the first disease. This means that individual colleges, until the FDV to the Faculty of Maritime Affairs, in short, various existing Slovenian faculties will devote the last semester to these military topics. Five semesters a young man will do in these colleges, like everyone else, and the sixth semester will go to the cadet's office and focus on military topics only. This is a so-called military model in existing colleges until the first disease. Then the establishment of this military institution, where it is logical that some colleges should not be afraid of competition, but because today the system is designed so that a high officer also needs a high civil education, it is logical that if he wants to become an officer, he must have a prior education in civilian colleges so that he can then go through the entire training system in the military. Defence may be one of such colleges where they fear that if this military institution is established, they will be able to lose some of the students. From this title comes one part of fear, but once again I stress the difference between defence and military science. Things are also classified differently. As regards the Syndicate of Education and Education for Privatisation, there is absolutely no justification. This law will also make it very clear, you can read that an article is written, that this institution can only be established by the Republic of Slovenia and no one else. In short, this obvious is also rejected. It's about public debate. The public debate was very broad. This was what television shows were about, and on evening news they dealt with these things and discussed them. We listened to them carefully and also took their comments into account, making things even clearer. And that's the last clue. It is also clear about autonomy, as this institution will also be subject to the same rules as all other higher education institutions. Which means they're going to go over the NAQVIS, and there's going to be a need to rehabilitate things as far as the professors are concerned. In short, there will be no deviations from the rest of the public school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development and European cohesion policy Zvonku Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, welcome! Cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the EU. For Slovenia, this also means, of course, the main source of investment in Slovenia both at national and local level. Resources are important in supporting job creation, increasing competitiveness, sustainable development and, of course, improving the quality of life of citizens. Slovenia is entitled to €3.1 billion in European cohesion policy funds during the 2014-2020 programming period. The Cohesion region of Western Slovenia has a total of around €850 million, Eastern Slovenia around €1.3 billion, and together more than €900 million from the Cohesion Fund is available to both regions. However, we also have the resources of the React-EU, which are intended primarily to address the consequences of the crisis in the framework of the covida-19 pandemic and, of course, its social consequences. However, it is of course important that all the measures implemented in the context of the React-EU should be implemented by the end of 2023. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What is the situation in the area of cohesion policy for the financial perspective 2014-2020? What is the total value of the decisions taken to support this government's mandate? How much funding has been granted under the React-EU mechanism? What are the largest or most important operations approved during this period? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much for that question. Good-bye, everyone. As you said at the outset, under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, ending at the end of next year, 31. 12. 2023, Slovenia has 3 billion 68 million funding from various funds. In addition, funds were allocated in July 2020 under additional funds due to the response-EU pandemic of EUR 278 million. Two years ago, in the National Assembly, we talked a lot about the relatively low drawdown rate and the risk of successful absorption of all available funds. About six months ago, I said here at the National Assembly that this danger was gone. Not only will Slovenia successfully draw all the grants from the funds available, we now have other concerns. Because we're deep in the so-called overcommittee and it was until 31. 12. 2021 committed to €3 billion and €422 million, which means almost 400 million more than is available in different envelopes. Every financial perspective has so far had some overcommitment. And it's always been this overcommitment due to the fact that individual operations end up not fully carried out as planned. And in this case, we're counting on something to fall out. We have made a slightly more accurate evaluation, but we can nevertheless find that in the coming year Slovenia, if we want to complete all the operations currently under way, it will still have to add some additional funds from the state budget, plus these €3 billion 68 million in funds between €150 million and €250 million. As for drawing in the last year and a half, from March 2020 onwards, let me say that this pumping has doubled. In March 2020, the drawdown rate was at 36 per cent; by then, a good billion euros had been spent or a third of what was available. At the end of last year, this figure was 2 billion 235 million and 73 percent of the funds from various funds. At the end of this year, we estimate that this figure will be somewhere between 90 and 95 per cent, which means that the funds of this financial perspective will be fully and successfully absorbed. The additional React initiative was aimed at four pillars, the economy, in particular the support of small, medium-sized enterprises and the parts most affected by the pandemic, calls for tourism, then the education system, the care of the elderly and the health sector. In the last two areas, we have committed considerable resources. You know that 93 million euros for nursing homes have been distributed among 18 homes across Slovenia, in all regions. The needs were, of course, greater because this malnutrition was very large in this segment. In the previous ten, twelve years, virtually no new beds were built in state homes. The second part of Reacta is mainly focused on the health sector, where almost all decisions are made, two more are missing, and these are Soča and Šempeter at Gorica. A decision to support e-care was issued days ago, the predecessor of the Long-Term Care Act, namely, support for people living alone at home, and a number of other decisions, nursing hospitals Ljubljana, Maribor, Novo Mesto, Murska satava. One of the biggest and most important is the comprehensive renovation of UKC Ljubljana. In a year and a half, the UKC Ljubljana will be able to renovate so that it will somehow be a new facility and allow, through this renovation and other resources provided by other mechanisms, people in need of care, normal conditions, and, on the other hand, staff working there, also conditions under some normal standards and conditions that are required by this time. I'm afraid there's no time for him to count the rest. A lot of projects in the area of municipal infrastructure and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I am extremely pleased that Slovenia is so successful in drawing on funds and that in fact we will be all the funds that are also successfully absorbed in the financial perspective 2014-2020. As I see it, the same will apply to funds from the React-EU. European funds are often the only real development funds for the country and for local communities as well, and the main purpose is to reduce the differences in development between regions. Unfortunately, there is still too much difference in the development of regions in Slovenia. So we have, say, the Central Slovenian region, which is significantly above the EU average of development, we have many regions that are among the less developed regions, which means they do not reach 75% of the EU's development. So we have, say, the worst situation in Zasavski, Pomurski, Koroška, Podravski region. I want to know: How can we use European funds to help reduce the differences in development? Since you have run out of time before, please tell me in concrete terms: What are the largest and most important operations approved during this period?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you, too, for this additional question. Surely one of the main mechanisms for achieving a more equitable development is channelling resources for the right purposes. Therefore, the removal of developmental backlogs is linked to adequate economic, municipal, transport infrastructure, education systems, by people having work in an environment where they live, that they can, if they want, be educated and so on. And the orientation of both cohesion policy and all other additional funds negotiated in July 2020, including the recovery and resilience plan, because you know that this is a 2.5 billion-euro envelope, of which €800 million is in this direction. Thus, strengthening both economic and educational transport infrastructures in all regions, ensuring adequate connectivity and enabling people to work where they live. And that's where all the investments go. This will result not only in cohesion funds over the next ten years but also in exceptional support for these investments. Here in the National Assembly, you have recently passed a law that speaks of investing in public health systems over the next ten years of €2 billion. In addition to these funds, we also allocate substantial resources to enterprise infrastructure, to additional investments in enterprises, to investments in the modernisation of production systems and to various other areas. For example, in this year and a half, cohesion was only supported by various entrepreneurship mechanisms, notably various entrepreneurship zones, which were granted tens of millions of euros under 57 support decisions from March to the end of last year, and previously in the entire perspective from 2014 to 2020, only 17 decisions were taken. Something similar in the area of pipelines, sewerages, between 2014-2020 8 projects in the field of water supply and 7 in the field of sewerage, and it is necessary to say that between these eight projects there are seven projects from the overcommitment 2007-2013. Now, from March 2020 until the end of 2021, there are 14 large water systems and 29 projects in the field of sewerage systems across the country. Among the larger, say, Pomurski voivodeship, B and C legs, the water supply in Bistrica, in Sava and so on. These projects have been huge in recent times, and this is also reflected in every step.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I consider this topic to be of great importance to Slovenia, so in accordance with Article 246 of this Article, I ask that a broader discussion be held at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister! According to the Meroslovak Act, the market inspectorate exercises control of criteria for the transport of cereals and oil seeds in Slovenia from primary producers. At the end of October 2021, the Ministry stated that the law clearly lays down the competences of institutions using measuring devices. When the said law was also read by the primary producers, the claim was made by farmers, it proved to be a mermaid document laying down rules on who and how to measure the cereal and oil seeds of the Regulations on metrological conditions for wetlands for cereal grains and oilseeds. This Regulation was published in the Official Journal of the then SFRJ in 1986 and expired in 2002. The Ministry responded to the concerns of the primary producers, says farmers, that the matter cannot be commented on because it is not within its competence. With the question of whether inspectors are even acting on the wrong instruments, farmers also turned to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, where they did not receive an answer. The main problem lies in the fact that cereals and oil seeds are dependent on the basic moisture of grain, protein content and hectolitre mass when sold. In order to identify these, measuring instruments shall be required to determine, on the basis of the regulatory legal procedure established through the installation, the humidity values of the grain, the personality of the proteins and the weight of hectolitres. It is crucial that all of these three parameters affect the achievement of the price for a weighted quantity. The maximum and key factor in addition to the quantity affected by the price achieved is the moisture content of the grain at the time of sale. The current customers of cereals in Slovenia determine the moisture content at the time of sale on the moisture identification instrument, says so-called dampers, who are measured annually against the payment of the owner to qualified organisations. However, the problem arising from this is that these organisations that reconcile these instruments do not have a legal basis and do so exclusively as a normal economic activity at the request of the contracting authority against payment. The buyers of cereals and oils, however, ensure that the instruments are legally controlled in respect of these qualified companies and therefore provide farmers with documentation on the instruments of death without legal basis, which was valid in this area until 2002. For this reason, I am interested in: Why is the area of grain moisture and oil seeds not yet regulated by law? By what time will the scope of legislation, control and calibration instruments for the determination of individual parameters of cereals and oil seeds be regulated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the last period, we have not recorded these complaints by farmers concerning the measurement of humidity, hectolitre weight and protein personality. We know this is the basis for determining the price. Producers have addressed us to a greater extent due to the low buying-in price, the cost of buying-in, also as regards the classification of wheat into individual quality classes, where these parameters, as the honourable Member mentioned, are key. In fact, you correctly note that this area is not regulated. I agree with you. We also know that the Regulation ceased to operate in 2002 from the time of the former SFRJ, and was then replaced by a new regulation prepared by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. This Regulation has also expired in 2003 and until then, you shall correctly state that the case is no longer specified. But at the end of the day, let me just add a thought. In principle, the Ministry of Economy and not our department is responsible for the drafting of this legislation, and the Market Inspectorate is not under our jurisdiction. We will therefore re-examine this initiative in detail at our Ministry with stakeholders. If there is a need for legal regulation by interested stakeholders too, then, together with the Ministry of Field, i.e. MGRT, we will probably draw up a regulation or a legal basis for calibration. Above all, I am pleased to see that, despite all that is being done, those who provide these services have once a year to balance these apparatus, which means that somehow the results of their measurements at the end can still be quite credible.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you, Minister. That's the answer I expected. I will immediately ask the question that you said you would study the initiative. I want to know: Can you tell what the timeline is from the initiative to the end? It's been a year, six months? Anyway, I know this case is very sensitive, but anyway, because it hasn't been settled in so many years, 26 years, and I'm interested. Can inspectors even act on the wrong way of dying instruments? Who is actually responsible for monitoring these instruments? I don't know, but you just said it was the Ministry of the Economy, that's how I understood you. But who can farmers turn to if there's no one behind it? Yeah. But I understand that it just hasn't worked out in 27 years. It's kind of strange that then you never really know how farmers are going to put their crops or their crops, and especially there in ransoms, that's the problem. As far as moisture content is concerned, these instruments show a very different point. Certain farmers, who may have become more economically qualified, have acquired their instruments and then see that there are derogations from those instruments that the grain buyers have. And here's the problem. And you know that this thing hasn't settled in 20 years, and it's questionable. There is always suspicion that this is wrong or unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you, too, for that question. I personally regret that in 2003, when all the rules governing this area ceased to apply, a new regulation was not drawn up that would have been in force. I fully agree with you, a situation like this at this point leads us to some assumption that measurements are not appropriate. And that is why I agree with you here that this area should also be regulated, especially if we know that farmers who have these instruments are also almost certain that they are not being moderated, and therefore it is likely that there are deviations in the measurements made by the farmer himself, to the one made by a buyer, which is, as you have rightly found in the question, giving these instruments a measure. As I said in the introduction, this area is not covered by our inspectorate or our ministry. I believe that the Market Inspectorate is responsible for verifying the mortality of measuring instruments. With regard to the timeline itself, it is extremely unpredictable to predict this, for first of all it is necessary to examine this matter together with the stakeholders themselves and then, on the basis of this, probably together with the Ministry of Economy, which is the Ministry of Economy, to draw up a proposal. And because we're not alone in this, because we're not a load-bearing ministry, I don't even want to predict the timeline, because that would be too ambitious on my part.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Minister for the answer. It's clear that it's unpredictable, but it doesn't matter. It is, however, that — if I add a little more to the debate because I have two minutes left — it is the devil that we never know each year in essence what the ransom price of cereals, maize or wheat will be, of course, the most extensive grains in our country, what will happen, what will be the price. This is hardly known when combines are actually in the fields or after harvesting. So these are some things that are disturbing, which simply do not give some peace in agriculture, so that farmers can be a little bit more focused on a certain permanent in agriculture. Yeah, it's not simple, it's not fair, it's a fact. If I'm a little nostalgic, the only agricultural crop that was in advance known exactly what the price would be was the sugar beet. On the basis of the level of sugar and then also the quantity, each farmer knew exactly what category of crops he was to be paid for. And that was in those days the sugar beet in Ormoz was a phenomenon. And we only miss such productions as sugar beet production, because the fact is, if the farmer knows what he's going to do for his crops or for his work. I would still use so much to give the initiative to have a wider debate in Parliament, although I do not believe, as I have mentioned so many times that I do not believe in a broader debate, but nevertheless. Let's find out something's going to change, so things work out. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Jure Ferjan will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u164	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Minister of Health, Mr. Poklukar! Facing the covida-19 crisis is a central and extremely important topic, both domestically and internationally, for almost two years. Slovenia faced the covida-19 epidemic with determination and full strength. Ten anti-korona packages were accepted, which were primarily directed towards the Slovenian population and the economy. However, a multibillion-dollar intervention has thus prevented and mitigated and continues to alleviate many of the pressures of individuals, families and, of course, also makes it possible for many companies to operate. We have one of the higher economic growth in the EU. We also have a record number of people working in the country. The success of Slovenia is also illustrated by the analysis of the internationally renowned Finance and Economy Week The Economist, which ranked Slovenia second among the 23 elected OECD Member States, the second most successful in dealing with the economic consequences or the economic crisis resulting from the global health crisis, the global pandemic. However, despite many problems, which are not only due to the current situation of covida-19, but the lack of investment in the Slovenian health system in recent years, we can also say in more than a decade, it worked and still works. Thanks to the appropriate measures, approaches and, of course, mainly the sacrificial personnel, health personnel and all those facing the covida-19 epidemic in the first battle line, they are still doing this and will probably be doing so in the coming months and times ahead. In view of the above, I am interested in the Minister for Health: What is the state of the Slovenian health system today when compared with the situation before or at the time of the global health crisis in terms of capacity, personnel, equipment, and finally the flexibility of the system? In this almost two-year period, how has the entire health system responded to the current changing situation of new strains, new waves? What do you think is the real assessment of the Slovenian health system or Slovenian society, how resistant we are to the potential new covida-19 vala? What is it that we need to do to ensure that Slovenian society and the health system as a whole are somehow resistant to that optimal level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Mr Jure Ferjan, with regard to the issue of the state of the Slovenian health system today compared to the situation before or at the beginning of the covida-19 epidemic, I must first of all explain that no health system in the world is so robust that it can respond without adapting to the health crisis as covid-19 did. When we talk about the epidemic, of course, we must be aware that the epidemic is a social problem, but of course it is facing the worst consequences of health care. At this point, I would like to take this opportunity to commend and thank all healthcare professionals at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, who have made it possible and provided health care to every citizen who needed it with their sacrifices and dedication. During covida-19, we prioritized, as optimally as possible, the work of healthcare workers between levels of health care and thus made it possible for the body to function well all the time. Based on our priorities, we have coordinated both vaccination-related activities, then the entrance points at the primary testing, then the provision of bed facilities and the treatment of covida-19 on both secondary and tertiary levels or in intensive treatment units. There were differences between the individual cylinders from different perspectives, from the point of view of the intersection of the population, the infectivity of the individual strain, the need to provide sufficient premiries capacity from the point of view of testing, vaccination or secondary from the point of view of bed capacity. The biggest challenge in providing any part of health care was, of course, the provision of sufficient personnel or adequately trained human resources. Slovenia is undoubtedly better prepared at the potential new covida-19 wave than at the beginning of the epidemic, since we learned a lot in 22 and 23 months. We are not the only ones who have learned this, the whole world has learned, both from the point of view of controlling the epidemic and from the point of view of treating patients. Experience has also taught us where our strengths are and what are the areas that we need to address more prominently and with priority in the coming period, of course in view of the fact that we will be better prepared for new health threats and, of course, even better respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear Minister of Health, thank you for your answer. But let me continue to think in some way about what you said. We are also in a very difficult situation right now, the numbers of new covido-19 infections are high, as a result of course also the burden of the health system and generally kind of the atmosphere among people. And certainly, besides vaccination, taking into account such basic measures as masks, distances, of course, hygiene is also one of the key measures to prevent the spread of the virus. And in this context, I am interested, in fact, that you yourself have stated that in the future we have quite a few things that we have already adopted in this mandate, there are more than two billion investments that will increase the resilience of the Slovenian health system, and, of course, there are many challenges that the current situation, which not only Slovenia, but the whole world is facing, has opened up. That is why I am also interested in the current situation: What's your assessment of what awaits us in the coming months, maybe by the end of the year? Can we also talk about the possible opening of society? We'll probably have to learn to live with covid-19 in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you for supplementing the question, Mr Member. What we need to know is that the fourth and fifth waves in particular had their characteristics and differed significantly from the other waves, and the approach was significantly different. Just as we prepared a sufficient number of intensive therapy units in the fourth wave, and this was extremely difficult, in the fifth wave due to omicron, for which we could say that we have a new virus, because it behaves very differently last week, we have established and redefined quarantines, isolations, we have changed the organization of work in hospitals, and, last time, we have changed the test protocol for the second time. Of course, there was a lot of work done at that time, because we know that in the second wave we provided in addition to pure intensity, almost 300, I think it was 291 highest, including intensive beds for observant patients. And in the fifth wave, at the previous 10,000 PCR tests about a year, if I have the information right, now more than 20,000 PCR tests per day. So there was a need for a significantly strengthened organisation and optimisation of all processes, both in the area of wiping and in the performance of tests, so that we could do all this. What we've done during this period, I could tell you about it for a while. It's about both the laws and not least on Friday, I think we were on Friday 26, mostly we got a deal for 2022. [[…]] I think that's one of the few years we've had a general agreement in January. Aware of all the challenges, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Mental Health was appointed. The Oval of the Medical Services Act has introduced an amendment for both the basic medical license and the level C1 language. The National Cancer Control Program was adopted. Diabetes strategy – we added to basic health insurance financing of insulin pumps with a closed loop for patients of type 1. An invitation to tender for the reduction of waiting species, as well as an invitation to tender for e-supply, has been issued for primary-level investments. So it was a lot done. I am glad that all health - care workers have done more in these difficult 22 months than any of them could have expected. Thank them very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I see the Minister is on his way. I'll wait for him to sit down so he can hear me. Dear Minister, your ministry is 10. 12. 2021 submitted to the public debate a proposal for a new Regulation to be submitted to a personal assistant, who is also expected to be in the final phase, according to publicly available information. In the public debate, it appeared that the most critical part of the Regulation was a provision determining which costs the operator of personal assistance could justify in relation to the work of these personal assistants. In practice, this means, of course, that these rights are linked to the payment for work carried out by personal assistants. With regard to payment for personal assistance, the Personal Assistance Syndicate points out the unacceptable reduction of the labour rights of personal assistants. The reduction of the labour rights of personal assistants associated with the payment of work is therefore another way in which, unfortunately, you are trying to save at least some money at your ministry and to reduce the budgetary costs for personal assistance, which has amounted to 8 million since the initial assessment at the time of the adoption of Law 2017, and last year we know that this has already amounted to €83 million. I believe that your ministry is going to reduce these costs in an unacceptable way by reducing the labour rights and rights of personal assistants who are doing the same physical and also psychologically difficult work with people with disabilities in social security institutions. Compared to them, personal assistants with the new rule will generally have fewer working rights as their rights related to the payment of the work done will be determined by the sub-legislative acts, as set out in this Regulation. Personally, I believe that personal assistance services are still essential and useful for the users of all these services, as they contribute significantly to the independent lives of people with disabilities and also of societies, and help people with disabilities to participate as much as possible in the community. However, it seems that the implementation of the Personal Assistance Act is constantly complicated, mainly due to the large financial expenditure required for the implementation of personal assistance. That's why I'm asking you: Do you think it is fair to try to reduce the total budget expenditure for personal assistance to workers exercising part of a personal assistant? Do you therefore not place employees performing the work of a personal assistant in an unequal and subordinate position compared to those employed in social security institutions? Both groups are doing extremely difficult work with people with disabilities. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, Mrs Bojana Muršič, for this question. I have to start by saying that your assumptions just don't hold up. On the contrary, the regulation, the sub-law, the Personal Assistance Regulation mentioned by you does not reduce the budgetary expenditure on workers' rights. With 1. 1. 2022 also increased the minimum wage, which also affects the rise in basic salaries of personal assistants. The proposal for a regulation also provides for the basic salaries of personal assistants at the level of the 25th salary grade of the salary scale applicable to the public sector. Previously, this one was 23rd grade pay grade. The Regulation also redefines the progress of personal assistants. So it's the opposite. With this proposal for a regulation, the situation of personal assistants is actually improving, I can say, but it is certainly at the level of other employees in social protection institutions. A comparable position of personal assistant shall be a social care provider 3 belonging to the third class and shall be subject to a range of wage classes from 20th to 30th grade. Thus, the Ministry does not place employees in an unequal and subordinate position from the point of view of work rights, but rather, more systematically and fairly, puts them in a system of personal assistance. However, personal assistants are extremely important acquisitions for the most vulnerable in this society. It is a matter of assistance to those tasks and activities which an individual, user or user cannot carry out alone because of the type and degree of disability and are linked to independent, personal and family life, integration into the environment, education and employment. With personal assistance in 2017, we made it possible for these most vulnerable individuals to live on their own, according to their needs and wishes. In December 2021, 3 000 466 users and users benefited from personal assistance. The work under the employment contracts was carried out by a circus of 7,000 personal assistants. We have paid 13.2 million euros to implement our personal assistance. As a result of the amendment of the Personal Assistance Act, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has also acceded to the amendment of the Regulation on Personal Assistance, which we have just discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The Member State wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Of course, it is commendable that for personal assistants you have changed the placement from the 23rd to the 25th salary class, which of course is commendable, but here we are still talking about extremely low amounts of net wages. The 23rd salary, the net salary of the personal assistant amounted to EUR 744,43. Given that you said that since 1. 1. 2022 is classified in the 25th pay grade, amounting to EUR 785.33. So much for the knowledge. Of course, comparisons are among social care providers who work in nursing homes, which are classified between the 20th and 30th wage classes, according to the first to be reemployed, can have the first five grades of increase, it is said that the caregiver can immediately be classified in the 25th wage class. But I'm not talking so much about where you've classified them, but I'm saying what you're saying in the rules. The Regulation states that the night work allowance will be 40 % of the hourly base salary. According to the collective social protection contract, this is 50%. The supplement for work on Sunday 90 %, the supplement for Sunday's work in the collective social security contract is 100 %, the supplement for working on holidays and working off days after the law 120 %, otherwise 130 %, the allowance for overtime of 20 % of the hourly item, otherwise 50 % is in accordance with the collective agreement. That's it. Here I am talking about this inequality between employees of personal assistants and, on the other hand, those who work in social security institutions where they also work. That is why I find this discriminatory towards these groups, because we know that this is extremely, very important. It would really be worth thinking about, and I hope he's in. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Ambassador Bojana Muršič, for this supplementary question. When we set wages and other conditions, we must also keep our eye on balance or on one justice between professions, on what you are alerting. But you know, when I visit social welfare institutions, on the other hand, many complain that it is disproportionate how we pay personal assistants. We need to look at both, so that we have enough personnel to pay this cadre with dignity and that we will have people who are taking care of these most vulnerable of ours, both in personal assistance and in social security institutions. I also need to mention help at home. It is somehow necessary to maintain a fair relationship between these categories. It is good that you have pointed out all these comments, but we include the widest possible circle of people in the preparation of these rules. And I'm sure they're not ideal, but they're optimal. And I believe that they will ensure the normal implementation of personal assistance in the future. However, I know that wages in Slovenia are generally too low. I also know that social services and personal assistants pay too low. That is why it is also important that a proposal for higher net salaries for all employees be approved soon, not only by administrative coordination of the minimum wage, but by actually leaving the net to all those who are employed, to all those who are working. When we talked about where personal assistants will be classified under this new rule and what the range of these pay grade is, I can conclude once again that in no case is the reduction of the labour rights of personal assistants. On the contrary, it is about improving their position. However, we will closely monitor the progress and implementation of this Regulation in the field and, of course, have responded accordingly, as has been the case so far. This, however, is what all social workers, whether in personal assistance or at home, in social security activities in general, know that we are open and that we are constantly trying to face such challenges.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Procedural proposal, Mrs Muršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u180	Yes, Vice President, I will allow myself to abuse the motion of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u181	And I won't let you do that. So I'm stopping you here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u182	Yeah, well, then I'll ask for a procedural proposal. Okay, okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u183	Then you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u184	The Personal Assistance Union has pointed out this, and I expect you to take this point further in this final phase, which I have also just pointed out, into account. Because it is really unacceptable that somehow those working in social security institutions will have 10% higher supplements than those working in the field as personal assistants. That is why I think it is so important that you consider this subject and also take these proposals from the personal assistants' union into account in the next process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u185	Mrs Muršič, I have not heard the procedural proposal for a general debate and it was extremely unfair of you not to give it, despite the fact that I warned you that I would not allow you to abuse this manoeuvre. It's not right of you. You can't fix it back. Warnings are lame to say, but it would be right for all of us to stick to one of the rules of the game. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. Mr Marko Bandelli will ask a question to the Minister without a source, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr Helena Jaklitsch, who is absent, so please let the Member state whether he wants a written or oral reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Vice President. As you can see on the list, the secretary is marked to be. But we got literally five minutes before we told her she wasn't there. That seems extremely unrealistic to me because she probably knew a few days ago that she wouldn't be here today. I wanted to ask her about her work to say and list the countries she visited because we here in the National Assembly know nothing about which countries she went and what she visited. Above all, I want him to point out his greatest achievements in this mandate when he was in this job, and what economic gains have been made, or what links it has provided to our country. I'd like to get that answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you very much, we've recorded, you'll get the answer in writing. The next is Mr Boris Doblekar, who will raise a question to Mr Janez Poklukar, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister of Health! Nice greetings for you too, dear colleagues and colleagues! The dental activity has also been reduced from the beginning of the epidemic across the country, as is the case with other health activities. We know that humans cannot do so easily to dental services. We also know that somehow the general state, as far as the health of teeth in Slovenia is concerned, is in a rather clarinet state, as everyone can see it when we are moving among people. Why so? The answers are probably familiar. I have to say, I've been feeling that it's been kind of like all these years that it doesn't pay enough attention to prevention itself in dental care. In particular, it took place until primary school days, and then somehow things begin to stagnate. And we know that people have quite a problem. Then there's the problem of extra and compulsory insurance, what people can get, what they can't get. Some people don't even know what belongs to them. Then there are waiting species, otherwise very different throughout the country. And yet I'm interested, Mr. Secretary of State, in this respect: What is the supply of dental care? What is the realisation of contract programmes in Slovenia? What are the waiting periods? In the following way I will touch the table of supplies in dental care for adults and youth after Slovenia, which I have also obtained. I will then ask you an additional question after your first answer on this supply and on this table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Member, Mr Boris Doblekar, thank you very much for the question. Of course, oral health and dental activity in Slovenia are an extremely pressing problem and reduces the challenge. Today in Slovenia we have a thousand 607 doctors of dental medicine, of which 217 specialists and 36 specialists and 40 trainees. Regarding supplies or defined Slovenians and Slovenians on a single dentist, let me say that according to the ZZZS, the number of patients identified per doctor on average is 270 and a thousand 293; otherwise, the number of patients identified on one dentist ranges from 812 to 886. How was the programme implemented in the previous year, which consequently affects waiting lines? We're still trying to get all the data, and this is what we're getting from 79% to 105% and 106%, if we're looking at realisation in all the operators. As regards preventive activities in the field of dental care, this is of paramount importance. It is true that when the school period in our lives is completed, this prevention programme is not carried out to the extent, or as planned, as it is to this period. And the fact is that we were sitting with representatives of the Committee on Dental Health at the Medical Chamber, trying to prepare a 10-year strategy for the development of oral health and dental health in Slovenia. Otherwise, we are at the Ministry of Health within Annex No. 1 to the General Agreement for the 2021 contract year due to the long waiting lines and number of people waiting for the first orthodontic review or treatment in the context of the disputed issues proposed enlargements, in a way that services are paid after implementation. This measure is worth €4.5 million, and I believe that it will help reduce waiting lines significantly, as we have had many discussions with orthodontists in the field of orthodontics, where they have ensured that everyone can do more. As far as Annex No. 1 to the 2021 General Agreement, let me mention that we have expanded the health network at the primary level by 3.08 teams so that where there are enough dentists, we have strengthened the network, because there are no options everywhere. At the same time, we launched an invitation to tender for the award of concessions in the area of jaw and dental orthopaedics in dental activities in the area of Celje, Črnomlje, Kopra, Tolmina and Sežana, as well as in the field of dental diseases and dental endodontics in the area of dental activities in Sežana and in the field of paradoxology in Krškem. At the same time, we have also set up a working group whose task is to create a solution for better accessibility of protected persons to dental services and to design a model for evaluation of dental services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Doblekar has a request for further explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that again. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. However, I have to say that if we look at this table of dental care for adults and youth throughout Slovenia, I can quickly see from this table that the worst dental care for adults and young people is currently in Lithuania. Here, from this table, it's very visible. According to the number of inhabitants, we also have the least dentists. And, of course, that seems a little worrisome to me. I know things, we know that waiting periods, as I have already said, vary from one municipality to another, across different areas in Slovenia, but of course, given the situation that the deviation from the Slovenian average of 77.86 is only for Lithuania, i.e. in the Ljubljana district unit, which is, of course, the worst result in Slovenia. Therefore, in my view, it would be right and, of course, I am also taking the initiative to re-check and review things and to arrange, on the basis of the findings of the known facts that we can see, for these things to be regulated in accordance with the law, that is, what is possible, that in the general agreement of these things, this provision will be arranged here in this area, namely, in the Lithuanian field that takes over the Lithium and Šmartno, even this concern will be better so that there are not so many waiting types. For the program is a hundred percent realized every year, but, as has already been said, the number of dentists is too few. Thank you very much for the additional answer or your explanation, your vision according to my data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Thank you for the supplementary question, Mr. Doblekar. What he's holding, of course, is that we tried in Anex No. 1 to the General Agreement for 2021 to increase the programme in particular where we have been assured by local communities that there is, of course, a cadre or all conditions for further implementation of these programmes. We work extremely well with the local community or the Municipality of Lithium, including the director of the healthcare home, so that I know the problem. And of course, on the basis of all the data presented, we are working in the direction of, of course, regulating dentistry in the field of Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs. Andrea Zabrett has the floor. She's going to ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! Today it is not the subject of public finances, but the pressure of accounting services. Today we know that work in accounting services is never, but even less during the epidemic is easy. We know that from the beginning of the epidemic they have significantly increased their workload. We know how difficult it is to monitor and follow all the measures adopted by the government to combat the spread of the epidemic and which also create bureaucratic obstacles. There have been times, and there are times when, in fact, experts can't answer them what the measure means and what it will look like in practice. We also know that accountants and their employees are sick after covid. My first question is about a specific case facing accounting services, this is the submission of a quarantine application. For example, the deadline is limited to 8 days from the first day of absence. This deadline is absolutely too short and employers consequently lose the possibility of payback. Indeed, many workers do not even know the procedure, do not have access to the Internet, and this presents them with great difficulties in obtaining a timely statement of referral to quarantine. Once they have done so, they have to deliver it to the employer within 24 hours, and within 8 days of the first day of quarantine, they have to apply for compensation. Accounting services point out that they have outstanding problems and that such cases are large when employers have virtually no compensation. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Have you thought about releasing or abolishing this eight-day deadline, since employers often lose the right to a refund because of a short period of time? The other thing, the second question I have for you is. We know that work in accounting services has been considerably reduced due to an increase in the number of patients with disabilities among employees, certain quarantines and increased labour shortages due to higher strength. Finally, they also have difficulty obtaining documents from their customers who are also facing covidcrisis. At the end of the year, the burden and complexity are further increasing enormously, as financial and accounting services in both the public sector and the economy are required to prepare a number of business reports in addition to current tasks. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Have you considered extending the deadlines for the submission of annual reports for 2021, of course with all the accompanying reports and the submission of documents to be submitted by accounting services to their companies for their customers? In PKP10 we have already tabled an amendment for this, and also at the proposal of the Association of Accounting Services at the Chamber of Commerce, you rejected it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u198	Given your first question, whether we have been thinking about changing deadlines or 8 days from the first day of absence of an employee to submit a quarantine application or release – we have been thinking about this, of course, with the competent ministry. From this point of view, I think that this administrative work, as you say, will simplify as much as possible. But I also think it's acceptable for most people. This is also what the data show, as they are increasingly benefiting from the possibility of communication via the Internet. So I'm also glad that digitisation is improving. And, of course, Furs can actually do that. With regard to the extension of the deadline for the submission of annual reports, we have data on the use of all payments or of all co-vid measures for 2020 and 2021. And, of course, I must say here that accounting services did not benefit greatly from these measures if we look at both years, less than 1% in terms of all payments. Here I must say that all hands are pre-arranged and these hands are not only bound to tax accounts, but also to annual accounts, to statistics run by APES, as all these annual reports are also being transmitted there. And I believe that, even in the light of the scope of the work carried out by the accounting services, and of course they are also paid for this work they are doing, I do not see any reason at this time to extend those deadlines.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you, Minister. For the first question, I am pleased to see that thinking is being done and that perhaps this time frame will delay somewhat so as not to cause such problems. Since there is a subsidy, it is also right that everyone has the option of using it under some normal conditions. As for the extension or accounting services, yes, of course they are paid for it, because it is their activity and that is what they do. But why they didn't benefit, I can only imagine that they probably didn't benefit and they were working sick because they had to stick to certain deadlines and couldn't afford to be out of work. So I assume that the use of these measures is so low among accounting services for this reason. We are being warned and we have been approached by a lot of accounting services, including probably other Members, we know that the Economic Chamber, the Association of Accounting Services, has already made a proposal to extend this deadline, namely, the accounting services themselves, to the staff who are sick of covids. Today we know that virtually everyone already has co-vids, and it is also happening in these accounting services. They also have difficulties in obtaining documentation from their customers, i.e. their customers have problems because they are sick and cannot function properly. By reminding them that, in fact, the situation is even worse than last year, when you were ready to extend the deadline also on the LMŠ initiative, we also called on the Committee on Finance and that is when the government decided to extend the deadline. We know how important the relevant data provided by accounting services are to the government so that SURS, UMAR and everyone can make relevant data.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I, of course, believe that there are problems in certain accounting services, as they are in the economy as a whole. I also respect their work, their efforts. Here I find it difficult to estimate individual accounting services, as you say, what they probably had, what they probably didn't have and so on. I have to stick to statistics here. How they worked and how they did not work, very subjective matters and the Minister of Finance cannot decide on the basis of subjective assessments, but can decide on the basis of statistics or data that they actually hold here. I would also like to point out that any extension means, of course, that the other analyses, the other data then the delay, are important, especially if we are speaking in the context of ICPES, statistics and so on. Of course, it doesn't really benefit anyone. I appeal to the accounting services to do what is in their power. We can also expect the tax authority to be kind here because it has always been in the last two years in this regard and has also understood this situation. However, if today, it is said two months before they have to submit annual reports, final accounts and so on, let us state anything, then of course this already automatically means some extension. That's not what I'm predicting. I also think that it is possible at this time to make business books conclude, that annual reports are also completed and that this is submitted to the Financial Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u204	Minister, thank you. That the reason for the statistics is because the accounting services did not benefit sufficiently from the measures, and that you assume from this that they have no problems, it seems to me a bit for the hair attracted. However, I would be happy if you made a decision, since it is likely that there will be still pressure on accounting services to make this decision just a little early and to notify them in time that they will be able to plan. Perhaps, even given that you are talking about the candy you share, even in this context, you could give the accounting services to alleviate all the pressures they have, give them a candy bar and extend the time limit for delivering the balance sheet to 30. Four, just like you did last year. But I think this is an extremely important topic, so I would suggest that we discuss this a little bit more at one of the next meetings, because I do not have time to explain everything at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you very much for your proposal. It will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February, in the framework of the votes. Now let's get on with it. Dr. Franz Trcek will ask the Minister of Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Minister. Hello, everyone. My question relates to the public hearing of the proposed Pohorje Regional Park Regulation, which is under public scrutiny until 11 March this year. Initially, I will say that both myself and the Social Democrats, of course, welcome and support the establishment of the Pohorje regional park. Why? Even if you don't look at Pohorje from your own bedroom or balcony, they're not in some way your lungs, as I perceive them. Pohorje is a pearl, Pohorje is a law, as the younger generation would say, specific, varied habitat of a folded relief, a rich network of surface waters and so on. As long as I have been a Member, I have been working quite unsuccessfully so far, starting with Mrs Majcen as the Minister of State. In this light, I welcome, in fact, the heart or upper massif of Pohorje to be declared a regional park. The mountains, of course, need to be taken as a whole. As a whole, it occupies almost 4.5% of the total surface area of Slovenia, crossing two historical landscapes, even a number of municipalities. In this light, this regulation has also encountered a lot of interest, reading in the local-regional environment and also responses. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: On the basis of what studies, analyses, the process of establishing the Pohorje regional park has been initiated? How is the management of the Pohorje regional park envisaged? Now I will say nothing new – this is of particular interest to the local community, the congregation. Such regimes should generally improve the lives of the local population. In this regard, I am also interested in: Will the establishment of the Pohorje regional park really improve the lives of the local population? I hope that when the Pohorje regional park is established, which also has a large majority of local communities, the local life, if I say so, will be favored. I hope that you will give me at least a few answers to these burning questions, because if we are honest, Pohorci and Pohorke are most of their lives, for centuries now they have been able to live spontaneously with Pohorje and from Pohorje, and we can also learn from them what a green transition we all have in our time full of mouths.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u208	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. The first insurance effort dates back to 1920. The most existing protected areas took place in the 1980s when several forest reserves and barium areas were secured by municipal decrees. In the National Environmental Protection Programme 2020-2030, we have stated that the new protected areas will be set up as a priority in the most environmentally sensitive areas in need of regimes and governance, including Pohorje. We took an active approach to the protection of this area when the initiative for the establishment of the regional park was given by six municipalities – this is very important – such as Zreče, Vitanje, thinkinja, Slovenska Bistrica, Lovrenc on Pohorje, Ribnica on Pohorje, and last year the Municipality of Ruše joined. It is very important that we work closely with local communities in such a regime. When you ask about the foundation. Last year, the Slovenian Department of Nature Protection prepared professional insurance grounds, which are a key professional document on the basis of which we prepared a draft act for the protection of this area, which is now under public scrutiny, at our Ministry. The draft regulation provides for the establishment of a public institution for the management of the regional park, as we have elsewhere, in other cases, in accordance with Article 133 of the Nature Conservation Act. As regards the advantages offered by such a case to local communities. It is mainly successful in managing such a natural value, which primarily preserves and strengthens healthy life in the natural environment, preserving species that have almost disappeared elsewhere in Europe, preserving a characteristic landscape and increasing the visibility of the area. There is also no need to overlook the technical assistance provided by the controller and to exercise greater and effective control over unauthorised interventions and activities in the area. Protected areas also mean value added in space for nature, as conservation of nature enables important ecosystem services and benefits such as the restoration of water resources, the provision of clean air, on the other hand, physical and spiritual relaxation of people in the natural environment, enhancing the visibility of the area, the rich cultural pulse of settlements, and offering opportunities for additional development opportunities such as the development of brands, new jobs, the provision of new tourism products and capacities, the establishment of harmonised support mechanisms for residents. That's the perks. We recognize this project as useful. It is in the stage of discussion, so there are still certain techniques, such as the way the regional park is managed, the open matter, the matter of agreement and further coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Duck, you have a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Most of what you said would be hard to disagree with, even though the election is at the door. A colleague from the Koroja side of Pohor would probably have said the same thing. I appreciate and it's fair that you said that there were still a lot of open matters. That's the fear of local communities. Because we both know very well, since it's lit up, within three months of the public service, within three months of the status, of the general act, and then you'd be about six months behind the management plan. It's kind of a problem here. I do not know if you have already been informed, on our behalf our colleague Dr. Jernej Stromajer sent comments on Friday on the draft regulation to your department, including from the property of the saint of the Municipality of Slovenske Konjica. Provisional management guidelines should also be adopted with the municipalities. Here, in particular, you might have some answer from your side more about the timeline all along. Even when we went to the brother of this matter, we always end up with different modes of sharing, this famous motor sleigh on these and other roads, then, say, colleague Bojana of Ruš read a little bit more about horses on the Pohorje, after all, which roads did not. In short, a whole series of open issues that will have to be resolved in order for this pearl to come to life as a regional park. Personally, I can admit that I'm a little radical here. In the medium term, I would like Pohorje to become our second TNP.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u212	This act, called the draft insurance act, is presented in public by 11 March of this year, i.e. for two months. Surely, there will be ample opportunity to express all opinions or concerns during this time. We are familiar with the proposals made by some local communities about the so-called concession, not the public institution. We do not reject anything in advance, of course we have certain advantages which public institutions mean in such a case, but once again, the discussion is open. Surely we will not force or change anything quickly or do anything against the interests or contrary to the efforts of local communities. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are still aware that cooperation and dialogue with local communities are crucial in the management of such protected areas. Similarly, in some other parks, in particular the Notran Park, where we also now have some initiatives for change. So I only assure you that we will carefully study and also discuss all the initiatives that will come in this public presentation, and in the end we will take decisions in particular for the benefit of nature and the protected area.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Dr. Trcek.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u214	Thank you. I'm not going to abuse the motion as some of my colleagues, even from your client, by the way. From what we have said both the Minister and me, it would not hurt to discuss this substantively in terms of a public debate, which allows us to discuss the rules of procedure, also at the next meeting of the National Assembly. That's why I'm suggesting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. And only for the magnetogram, as far as you're concerned. Even if I had been a colleague from my client, I would have warned her and interrupted her implementation, perhaps even more harshly than I was your colleague Mrs Muršič. That's it. Let's be correct. Mr Andrej Chernigoj is next. He will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku, and the Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u216	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! Wild pigs in the area of Brkinov destroy crops. The farmers there, due to the damage on the meadows, do not have enough food for the livestock and are considering abandoning farming. We can read all of this in January's news in our local and also national media. Farmers have been alerting farmers for years and asking for help. Among the more important tasks of agriculture is to ensure an adequate level of self-care and food security. The scope of agricultural land continues to decline steadily due to the intensive development of settlements and infrastructure and to the growth of these lands, and the trend of reducing the number of agricultural holdings continues to continue, so it is a key task of the competent ministry to ensure the processing and adequate protection of agricultural areas. According to the latest information, this Saturday was a bear attack on a walker in the Pijave Gorica area.Last week, all Slovenia shuddered at the news that a hunter was attacked near the Postojna bear. He was lucky and managed to escape. Police and hunting societies warn that human lives are also at risk, so they advise us to be careful in walking. Hunting professions and various NGOs in this area have found that there are more and more beasts in Slovenia, that we do not have a clear plan, which are suitable areas where we will allow them, and what number of beasts is appropriate. Farmers are afraid for the change, and we're witnessing more and more bear attacks on bees. Wild boars, bears are no longer afraid of humans. I can confirm that myself. People are getting closer, even in the village. Dear Minister, all the above is the reason why we need to talk publicly about the great damage that Slovenian farmers are suffering from the attacks of beasts and savages. I want to know: How are you going to protect farmers from attacks by beasts and wildlings so they won't abandon farming? How will you protect citizens and citizens, as well as hunters, so that their safety will not be compromised? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Who wants a word first? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u218	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. You have divided this into two sections, one of which is a wild pig, which does not belong among the protected species and as far as the Ministry of the Environment and Space does not have any powers, and the colleague will probably explain it below. As far as the bear is concerned, it's different. The brown bear is one of the protected species, which means that shooting just like that is not possible for no reason. One suitable solution for regulating the size of the brown bear population is also an intervention in the recovery of specimens of a species from nature on the basis of the previous professional basis and a specific decision that arises in this case. I have information from our Directorate for the Environment that the decision on the shooting of brown bears will be issued in the second half of February and will also regulate this population. It is true that these species are in relatively good condition, more and more in Slovenia, so such an intervention in this population is also allowed. However, I must say that, during the Presidency phase, I have proposed to a colleague from Croatia, where they have the same similar situation, that we together achieve the transfer of brown bear and other beasts, including the wolf, from the annex to the Habitat Directive to another annex, where the population is treated differently, for example, as for other species, but not as an exception to exceptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Minister Podgoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I also thank you for the question, which is extremely important at this time in some areas of the Republic of Slovenia. True, more than 90% of all wildlife damage in Slovenia is caused by feral pigs and deer. The management of the game is regulated by concessions in Slovenia, which means that concessioneers, such as hunting families or also special-purpose hunting grounds, manage this game, are also obliged to monitor and pay for any damage caused on the ground. In the collection of wild boars, the Ministry has removed virtually all restrictions on hunting for both specific purposes and in other fisheries. Therefore, operators are only required to carry out withdrawals at this time, i.e. the removal of wild pigs. On the other hand, even under the African swine fever intervention law, hunters receive a prize or financial incentive to take over the quota to be achieved on the basis of hunting plans in an environment. This year we will pay almost a poor million euros of these financial incentives for last year. The same will be true in 2022. In hunting for deer also in areas where damage occurs, we extend the hunting seasons and also raise the planned amount of withdrawal for deer. However, I would like to stress, as I initially said, that game-hunting operators must assess and even correct the damage to game-hunting in agricultural cultures, which is farms, and they must also report the damage. Because reporting damage is somehow the basis for determining the number of populations. When I talk to the Hunting Association about these damage myself, the Hunting Association is very clear to me in the application Lisjak that the damage caused by the game is essentially falling, but it is true that we have more and more of these damage on the ground, which means that something in this part is not right. That is why we propose, we also ask farmers to report damage whether they claim compensation or not. This is the basis for determining the number of these savages. Now, for the last minute, we're going to do a very specific job. During the new programming period, we are foreseeing a new measure — we do not assume — in the strategic plan that we have sent to the European Commission is a new measure called poaching. This will primarily solve the number or some damage when we talk about deer grazing. Also in areas with limited factors, areas of OMD, three-quarters of Slovenia is these areas, we add financial resources. This will certainly also help these farms, because in restricted areas the most damage is caused by the wild. However, let me add that the country in particular covers part of the damage to hunting families in border areas, even in the case where we were last on the ground, the country can also help these hunting families to cover the damage. Which means that at this point we find that the most important communication between hunters and owners of agricultural land is. To this end, we can also help with our own financial resources to cover this work. There's probably more to it than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u222	Dear Minister, thank you for your answers so far. Maybe just for the sequel. Yeah, I've seen a lot of damage in the Brkin area by the wild boars themselves. As I can see, for last year's informal data show that some less than €718 000 has been paid for damage to the wild, which is the second highest annual amount since 2007. I want to know: Do you already have an estimate of the damage caused by the recent attacks of wild pigs, especially in this area of Slovenia or the Brkinov area? As far as the environment and space are concerned, I'd like to know: Have you done any analysis, including why the Agency’s requests repeatedly fall in the Administrative Court? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief myself. The damage to wild pigs has not yet been fully assessed and we do not have the full data due to this. As I said, we know that there are probably several thousand hectares of damaged land there, even this week we continue to meet both with the Hunting Family – I hope they will also attend – as well as with the owners of agricultural land, because we want to increase communication between each other and in some ways also show the solutions available. Therefore, by means of national means, we help hunting families to repair the damage caused in this part, for it is a border area. Let me just add a few more thoughts. As far as the safety of hunters is concerned, we also support the active training of hunters here. We can also put this into the annual programme of public tasks carried out by the Hunting Union of Slovenia, and we will try to do this in agreement with it already this year. We also support hunter insurance, especially in the event of an attack by a beast. Initially, the issue was intended to preserve agriculture and eliminate it. Let me add that in this regard we will also pursue an active policy for the elimination of growth, including for an active incentive. I can say that through this measure last year we will certainly eliminate the cultivation on significantly larger areas than in the last 10 years together.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u226	For certain decisions of the Ministry or its bodies to fall within the composition of the Administrative Court, there are a number of reasons, some of which are also very subjective. When a court or a judge, an individual judge, weighs an intervention in the population for these reasons that you have said — because this savage causes damage and also endangers life — it weighs between the lives of animals and other risks, and here, of course, the views are different from man to man. Many times, too, this is why a decision is falling. We have also made a relatively strong professional basis for population intervention from this title. We are doing exceptional monitoring, which means that various European recognised methods determine the state of the population and we have arguments that the condition of the brown bear in Slovenia is good and that there are no more reasons to protect this species. But the way to exclude this species from the protected species is still long, especially before the European Commission, not so much before Slovenian courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. The next is Mr Jože Lenart, who will raise a question to Mr Janez Poklukar, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, a number of questions related to covid-19 are addressed to you or to your Ministry in these two years, which is also understandable, since in this time the most decrees, measures and regulations are created in your ministry. The Law on Infectious Diseases provides in Article 25 that the annual programme of vaccination and protection with medicinal products shall be established by the Minister of Health on a proposal from the NIJZ. Recently, however, a proposal for a regulation establishing a programme of vaccination and protection for medicinal products for 2022 was sent to the public for public discussion, which raised quite a few dustes and caused fear and hardship for many people. For this reason, I am asking you this question today. In the Regulation, covid-19 is added to the vaccination programme for employees of other listed diseases. Thus, vaccination against covidu-19 would be carried out in accordance with the Safety Statement by assessing the risk of jobs in persons exposed to infectious diseases in the performance of work and in persons who may transfer infections to another person at work. Next. In this regard, the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia assessed that this is a covert compulsory vaccination, since the specific determination of both the chain of taxpayers and the sanctions for possible rejection of vaccination is entirely left to individual employers and protection declarations with risk assessment. Many others are also concerned about the introduction of covert vaccination. In doing so, I would like to make it clear that in the LMŠ we do not oppose vaccination against covidu-19. The damage is already too great, including the absence from work and, of course, the very problem of human health. I want to know: Could you please explain what specific changes the rules on the establishment of a programme for vaccination and protection of medicinal products in 2022 will bring to the staff? Will certain types of vaccination be compulsory or merely recommended? For what professions do you suppose such an arrangement will apply? What sanctions will employers be able to apply against non-vaccinating workers? The Regulation also includes a section on vaccination and protection of medicinal products in emergency situations, which provides for vaccination against covidu-19 for the population in case of emergencies such as natural and other accidents, specific exposure to communicable diseases, epidemics, pandemics, terrorism, biological agents and so on. I also want to know: Can you tell what this change will bring in practice? Are we talking about the introduction of compulsory vaccination? Let me do it again. We are currently facing a record number of confirmed infections, which is likely to be sufficient to meet the criteria for epidemics and specific exposure to infectious diseases. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please. Mr. Lenart, there's a microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u230	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Jože Lenart! First of all, thank you for this important question. As you mentioned, the Law on Infectious Diseases in Article 25 provides that the National Institute for Public Health shall prepare a proposal for an annual programme of vaccination and protection with medicinal products. In preparing the proposal for 2022, the National Institute for Public Health took into account the epidemiological situation and trends of communicable diseases, the analysis of the results of vaccination and the results of domestic and foreign scientific research. The proposed vaccination programme is similar to those of most European countries and summarises the World Health Organisation and Europe Strategy for the Protection of the Population against Infectious Diseases. Due to the magnitude of the covida-19 epidemic, the National Institute for Public Health also included the vaccination of staff against covidu-19 in this year's proposal. This means that an authorised specialist in medicine of work, transport and sport in accordance with a safety statement assessing the risk of work in persons exposed to communicable diseases and persons who can pass an infection on to another person at work shall assess what risk factors are in a particular place of work and whether certain vaccinations are necessary to ensure safety in addition to other means of protection. The risk assessment of jobs is always prepared by a specialist in medicine in cooperation with the employer and the worker or his representative. Work or vaccination for certain jobs is already prescribed and this is no new. Thus we know that, for example, the mandatory vaccination against hepatitis B is in health care. Then we have mandatory vaccination of foresters against tick meningoencephalitis. Then we have a mandatory vaccination of vets against rabies. So that professionally bound vaccinations already exist today and are not new from this point of view. What I should stress is that the proposal prepared by the National Institute for Public Health this year is by no means prepared to involve any introduction or covert introduction of compulsory vaccination. This is a misunderstanding of these terms. In fact, it is only a matter of ensuring a safe working environment, based on an assessment of the profession, medicine of work, transport and sport. Of course, this proposal for a regulation has been published and has been made public, we have received a number of comments and initiatives for improvement, so that we are reviewing them at this moment. Once all initiatives and proposals are reviewed and collected, we will once again sit down with the National Institute for Public Health and also with medicine of work, transport and sport, and decide how it makes sense to adopt such a regulation. This is the work version, which will be the final one, once again, depending on how the profession will be defined in terms of the initiatives and proposals that we have received in these days on the basis of public publication, and then we will follow this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lenart, you have a request to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Minister. There was no concrete answer to that somehow, but you can see from this quite concretely, I'll say, people's mistrust is great and is somehow increasing. People find it difficult to understand the explanation that you have just given. These questions are practically still, but of course it is a dilemma, since at the end of the course covid-19 is not included in the mandatory vaccination list at all. This is the basic point that we deal with, or even people deal with, and ask questions. It is difficult to imagine whether the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme of vaccination and protection with medicinal products for 2022 will in practice have positive effects. This is from all these responses in the public debate, which is also somehow visible. We came to this knowledge ourselves. The Regulation itself raises doubts and inadequacies about implementation itself. To pass all this on to the employer, that's what we think is going to bring a lot of confusion. Only implementation and sanctions are passed on to employers without a basic legislative basis to ensure transparent legal implementation. Here's the key that somehow doesn't make us trust the rule he just came in. The rule brings confusion and not solutions. I suggest, Minister, that you withdraw this rule and make it so that people will believe in it and trust it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Mr Lenart, honourable Member, thank you very much for the additional question. Let me explain once again that this is a working version of the document that has been put into public debate and on the basis of all the initiatives that we have received, we will discuss them again and look for solutions with expertise. The one published was also proposed by the profession. So what we're going to do is we're going to follow the profession, because this has still proved to be the best thing that gives us and what we can count on to bring results in terms of controlling the epidemic. But it is also something — that everything we are doing today regarding the management of the epidemiological situation is working for the following waves. From this point of view, I believe that the epidemiological profession, as well as the profession of work, transport and sport, may look at things differently than we who do not work professionally. That is why I trust both professions completely, and as the final decision will be, I will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The next is Mr Gregor Židan, and he will also ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, good afternoon! A little joy despite a difficult situation is needed. I know there's a lot of questions on the subject of covida, and it's the same thing as finding out and finding out as much as possible. I will therefore point out in this direction that I am a patient, one of the first in Parliament, twice vaccinated, that I meet all the conditions of PCT, full. But at some point, I've had an awkward story, so maybe you guys can help me clear this up a little bit. Now let's keep asking the question. Unfortunately, citizens and citizens also face difficult access to health services throughout the epidemic. The waiting period has thus extended, and it is especially difficult to reach a personal doctor today. Already such great hardships make it more difficult for people to go to health homes through different protocols. More and more people report on various protocols or conditions for entering health homes. Some, for example, require one of the PCT conditions, again others, despite meeting one of the PCT conditions, such as vaccination or overcame, require a quick test. People are therefore rightly confused because they expect the same conditions for entering all healthcare homes. I don't know if there's any difference between any of these institutions being private or state-owned, but what would you say? — I feel that some things have been done in such a way that these rapid tests are done primarily to bring additional profits into private health care homes. In view of what I have told you so far, I would ask you, Your Honor, What are the conditions for entering health homes? Why are these conditions not the same in all health homes in Slovenia? What were the instructions or recommendations of the competent Ministry of Health? Did the ministry allow homes to set up different conditions for entry into their premises? Thank you for your answers. Maybe something else in the other part.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u238	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Gregor Jew! Thank you for the important question. But let me explain the following. In order to prevent the recurrence and spread of infections, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a Decree on temporary measures to prevent and control infections with communicable disease COVID-19, which sets uniform conditions for users of services or participants or is present in carrying out activities in the environment in the Republic of Slovenia. The decree also provides for compliance with the PCT condition for users of health services. However, PCT conditions do not need to be met in cases of emergency health services, with the Ministry of Health, with a view to a uniform interpretation, laying down guidelines for all health care providers in the public network on 17 September 2021, where all health services are properly listed where the user is not or is not controlled in these services. At the same time, the list of emergency health services was supplemented on 22 September 2021 and also published on the Ministry’s website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I'm going to make my own case. I'm not gonna give you a name, because maybe that wouldn't be fair. I applied for ultrasound, got a text from this facility, then a call that told me that I had to meet the PCT conditions, that's what testing is. Not a word was said. When I got there, I filled out a questionnaire stating that I met two PCT conditions, which is a real patient and a full vaccination. She didn't even ask me if I met the PCT conditions, which means she didn't even check the app I wanted to show. However, she stated that despite filling out the questionnaire, we would quickly test each other. I asked why, because I met all the conditions, she didn't want me to answer that, but she said that in order to prevent the virus from entering the facility. Then the second case was two days later. I ordered an e-mail at the medical home, got there, checked my PCT, treatment at the dentist, no problem. Given that 700,000 people have been sick since the beginning, that we have a million 200 thousand full of vaccinateds, I think it is unnecessary — what would you say? – only in the population can the protocol trigger further decisions to avoid vaccination. If I understood your answer correctly, it was said earlier that we do not need a PCT for some urgent matters. Is that right? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Thank you for the supplementary question, Mr. Jew. I don't know the case, I can just describe it or try to figure out what you just said. Compliance with the PCT condition means either compliance with the condition of disease or vaccination, if any, but of course with the testing. In accordance with the instructions, this condition is fulfilled when you meet one of these conditions. So I can't answer your question why there was an additional test required in addition to meeting condition C. For this was certainly not in the instructions issued by the Ministry. That's one. On the other hand, health services are essential, where none of this is necessary. So that we can also look at or make a written complaint to the Ministry of Health, we can also address it properly because it is difficult to comment on any event or event. Of course, we are trying to help all citizens and citizens, the instructions are clear, and they are also expected to be followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Jewn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u244	I won't ask [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u245	No, Mr. Jew. I won't give you my word if you don't call for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u246	Can I just say I won't ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u247	No, because it's not a procedural proposal. I asked you whether you have a procedural proposal, and what is now a procedural proposal in the context of the questions sent is a proposal for a general debate. You don't have to answer that. You don't have to answer that. It's a procedural proposal to say that you want to do that. We continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u248	I said I would, I said it again. I would ask the Minister to discuss this, and I propose that this be voted on in a joint vote. If possible, I'd like to write or demand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u249	Mr Židan, you are not asking the Minister, but you are asking the National Assembly to decide on this, on your procedural proposal, which you have now formulated, a little unfortunate, but I understand you. It will be decided on Wednesday, 2 February, in the framework of the vote. He's going to decide the national council. Now we are really going on with the second question. Mr Jožef Lenart has the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greeting to all guests present, especially to the Minister for the Environment and Space Mr. Visiak! We know that the offer of apartments in Slovenia is too small. We also know that in each market economy, prices depend on supply and demand. And since the offer is as it is, prices for sold apartments have risen between 30 and 40 %, in certain parts of Slovenia also more than 50 % between 2015 and 2021. I must say, because of the lack of housing offers, young people and young families have a problem because they have nowhere to go. Something's happened in this area lately, but it's been, I don't know, between 10 and 20 years -- what can I say? - It's getting dark. So, nothing was built. I know it's not easy to build overnight, I'll say, 500 or a thousand flats, but we do have, according to some data, a few thousand more, maybe 10,000 apartments that are so-called hidden, unused, no one living in them, whether they were bought for investment or for any other purpose. That's why I want to know: Do we have any ideas and measures to get hidden apartments to the market, so to speak? Do we use regulations to target those owners who are afraid to rent an apartment because they do not want to deal with it or because they have fears, what will this apartment be like when the tenant leaves it when the contract expires? What have we done so far at the Ministry of the Environment and in this government, and what will we do and build? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u252	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question, which is very important for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, especially for certain groups, especially young, young families, because their effectiveness and not least the life-style they expect will also require a solution to the housing problem. As you know, honourable Members, in the past we have already adopted in Parliament a novel of the Housing Law, which is an important answer to this question. Among other things, this novel also saved the so - called public employment. The purpose of this public rental service is to activate unoccupied apartments, which owners, due to some legal uncertainty, financial uncertainty, the risks of renting their apartments, of course they do not want to rent and are dead, empty. This is bad, for they are not available to those who need such housing. To this end, under this law, the Ministry is now setting up a public employment service, where we will call upon all these owners to register their dwellings in this scheme, and the State is significantly legally and financially responding and taking risks to the possible difficulties of renting these apartments. This public rental service is a project that has already come to life and will activate a significant number of apartments. Of course, it depends on supply and demand, but the goal is to get dead apartments that are not available to renters. The other thing that is very important is the construction of new rental apartments. Many projects – by the way, have already been presented in Parliament several times – are in implementation. Let me mention that about a thousand 864 apartments are currently in place and are either dedicated everywhere in Slovenia. It is very important, say, Novo Brdo 1 in Ljubljana, Rakova Jelsa 2 in Ljubljana, Celje Dečko settlement, in Maribor, in Montenegro, in Brežice, in Mežica, Gornji Radgona, in Mozir, in Radenci, in Slovenj Gradc, in Sveta Ana, in Podčrtek, in Slovenska Bistrica. One of the biggest is Pod Pekrsko bitterco in Maribor, where 400 apartments are scheduled for show in March. Also in Krška, in Slovenian Konjice, in Zreča, in Rogaška Slatina. So, in the mandate of this government, we have significantly strengthened activity, even because of the Housing Law, because remember, the novel of the Housing Law has set rents for rents on some economic level, on some real basic level, which means that the Housing Fund also has some economic basis for investing in new apartments. That's what encouraged the construction. As I mentioned, a thousand 864 apartments are now a few thousand in the years to come, while, for example, the last five-year period, we recorded only 340 rental apartments through the fund. This means that these measures constitute one renaissance in the construction of public rental apartments through the Housing Fund and municipal housing funds. I believe that if we follow this logic in the future, we will address these problems that come from the past and we will speedily address them.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u253	Thank you very much. You have a request for a supplement, Mr Member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. Inciting answers, I must say. So the government works, the Minister for the Environment, too, well. But I've got a few more things to do. So, these numbers, we started building, they're quite encouraging. It is clear to all of us that in the long run it is not good, as you yourself have mentioned, that in fact youth remains, I don't know, with parents. Because until he's alone, until he's planning his family, of course he doesn't use all of his potential until then, but between 25 and 30, they're probably the most active, even the most physically and physically capable. Perhaps I would only touch on the fact that I appreciate that this government, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, are pursuing the objectives of resolving this problem. Given that I have a good insight into what is happening on the real estate market, I have talked to several young people and also received answers. For example, one professor from Ljubljana said that he lived in Ljubljana with three other men in the house. They shared a house because they didn't get another one, which was pretty humiliating for him. He also stated that something could have been easier if something had changed in the field of credit. Because, given the lack of housing available, construction would also solve the housing problem. If he has, I don't know, a couple of 600 Euros to pay his rent, then he could probably take 500 Euros a meal to take his credit and build his own until that's enough. Maybe it's just that I want a lot more work to do in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u256	Thank you, honourable Member, for this supplementary question. True, providing enough housing on the market is only a solution to part of the problem. Someone who invests in an apartment wants to make that investment back in time. Therefore, in order to ensure development, as well as a demographic picture, and to guide responsible demographic policies, the country needs to do something else to encourage young families, in order to promote the last long-term development of Slovenia. This is said to make these apartments more accessible to young families, that is to say, to improve the conditions. Here, of course, these measures go beyond the powers of the Ministry of the Environment, we are merely competent to have more and enough of these dwellings. Other measures and various credit lines, encouraging and not least, that the payment of rents or monthly expenses is in some way included in the purchase of an apartment, that such a young family becomes the owner of an apartment after a certain period of time, not that it pays high rent all the time and is ultimately dependent on the owner. This creates additional problems and uncertainties. Therefore, in the creation of the new programme, which we are offering for the next period in this area, we are also creating favourable credit lines and opportunities for long-term buying out such apartments, which are owned by young families in particular, in terms of the resolution of the demographics and demographic problems that Slovenia has. This is said to enable the first apartment for young families under attractive conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mrs Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac, who is absent. Therefore, please state whether you want a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u258	I'll ask you a question, of course. Madam Minister in absentia, the coalition has already given itself a mandate to conclude an agreement with Hungary on the second track of the Divača-Koper route before last year, and the public does not really have any information on the course of negotiations. From the very beginning, the Left opposes all forms of foreign participation or participation of foreign capital in the second indent project. After all, it is an extremely strategic infrastructure. And, of course, because it is economically and politically harmful. Economically because the partnership with Hungary is not equal, as Slovenia itself guarantees the payment of credits and guarantees the subsidisation of the second track, and Hungary would nevertheless become half-owner of the new track and profit with a minimum stake. In addition, it would have obtained connected transactions in the port of Copier, namely 30,000 square metres of land. Secondly, because the partnership with Hungary is also politically harmful. After all, only colonies allow a foreign country to own their strategic infrastructure. One of the Hungarian oligarchs is a financially dependent party to the SDS and its Paramedic Empire, which is the problem of the SDS party, and we must by no means allow Hungary to be subordinated to the state and thus become the prey of one party and its interests. It is crazy that at a time when the Croatian government is trying to push the Hungarian oil company Mol out of Ina, Janšev's government is selling tourism, say the Sava Group, and the railways to Hungarian capital. The Croatian case shows that Hungarian capital uses all funds, including bribery, and that international arbitration, which is also provided for in your agreement, protects the Hungarian side in particular. That's why I want to know: How many times have Hungary met with the government delegation on the sale of ownership shares and when? Did and when did you discuss the agreement at the level of governments and ministries? At what stage are the negotiations, when is the agreement to be concluded, and when is it initialled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Igor Peček has the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In order to help countries within the European Union face both the health crisis and the economic crisis, a temporary instrument has been set up as part of the negotiations for the 2021-2027 Multiannual Financial Framework to promote the recovery of the Next Generation of the EU. The final agreement was adopted on 17 December 2020. The majority of the instrument's funds represent a recovery and resilience mechanism that envisioned EUR 5.2 billion for Slovenia. On the basis of these funds, the Government's Development and European Cohesion Policy Service has drawn up a National Recovery and Resistance Plan. At the time of adoption of this plan, however, many criticisms were expressed mainly because of the two facts. First, because not all relevant stakeholders were involved in the preparation and secondly, because the document had been prepared in secret for a long time. In the initial draft, the government decided to earmark road infrastructure for more than €290 million more than for rail infrastructure. In the LMŠ, we have already pointed out at the examination of the draft in the National Assembly that the objective of future investments should not be based solely on infrastructure but also on investment in human resources and resources that will contribute to sustainable development. The European Commission has also decided to introduce the so-called "do not harm" principle, which means that plans should not harm environmental and climate objectives. This also affected the final preparation of the plan in April 2021, as the government changed the structure, excluding road infrastructure worth more than 400 million. However, the document was prepared to draw 42% of the funding for the environment. Today we see that, after eight months, in view of the recovery and resilience light established by the European Commission among the worst Member States, it relates to the use of clean energy resources. I'm interested in your opinion: Why are we, in view of the light of recovery and resilience between the worst Member States of the European Union? Where is the power to find a cause for such a poor use of resources? What do you think must be done to accelerate the use of these funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u262	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your question, although I am not entirely responsible for the Recovery and Resistance Plan. It was created by the Government Development and European Cohesion Policy and managed by the Ministry of Finance. But I can gladly tell you about our environmental work, which weighs €156.2 million in grants and €380 million in repayments. It aims to reduce environmental impacts by investing in waste water treatment systems, promoting adaptation to environmental impacts and climate change by promoting rational water use, investing in water supply systems and supporting digital transformation – in particular, I will highlight the EMOP project – and increasing resilience to investment in prevention or protection against floods and reptiles. So when you talk about pumping, we have already activated one of the first funds, and in January we issued a call for water and waste water treatment systems, which have never been co-financed by state resources in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in these smaller water pipelines and in smaller waste water treatment systems. The invitation to tender shall be open from 11 January. We have bid about €50 million each, a total of just over €100 million. It is an attractive project, which is now being speeded up by the municipalities. In the invitation to tender, we requested that the application also be submitted with building permits, because it means that we co-finance 50 % and 60 % of the feasible projects, and this will, of course, significantly increase the absorption of these funds. The same is true of investments in flood protection. We also carry out projects here through the Water Directorate, as well as the abolition of the rehabilitation of beaches. As much as we have co-financed in the recent period within the local communities to rehabilitate existing beaches and increase investment in flood security, this has not actually been the case in the past. So that Slovenia, at least as far as this work is concerned at the Ministry of Environment and Space, is making effective use of the resources for the problems that people actually have. Perhaps, unlike in the past, when very often cohesion funds were allocated to some studies, some analyses, various studies, which ultimately had no concrete impact in the space and on the quality of people's living, we decided to go along with some projects that had not been supported so far. I can tell you the case. Even today, there is a huge gap in the provision of water supply. Here we also had a recent referendum on waters full of mouth protection and constitutional right to drinking water, while we did not help to finance local water supply communities where they wanted to attach some villages to the water supply, to public water supply and to provide water to these people. The honourable Member, it is my opinion that the exercise of the right to drinking water – in order to allow people to join the water line, to help municipalities, because it is usually a very difficult investment because it is a matter of connecting some remote areas where the pipeline is far away, the locals may also be shaken up and there is a need for a lot of water supply. We have therefore used the means of the Recovery and Resistance Plan for these very contents. Also smaller sewers. In this way we also protect water and water resources because we allow people to take measures to protect or remove waste water in some remote areas in smaller agglomerations, below 2,000 population equivalents. As far as I am concerned, or the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are very pleased with these options of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is already under way. The absorption will certainly be important before 2023, but only 2026, when the deadline for drawing these funds is reached.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Request for a follow-up, Mr. Peček? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u264	Yes, I'm asking for a supplement. I'll also tell you why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary. Within the European Union, we are committed to reducing emissions emissions by 55% from 1990 to 2030, and by 2050 we need to become climate neutral. However, in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, we are still committed to the 2030 development strategy, which was adopted in 2015. I think that the objectives should be updated or re-set. And there's another fact. At the end of 2021, there was a significant rise in energy prices, and these forecasts are still valid for 2022, and in my view it is essential that we start investing in a low-carbon energy system. Finally, at the intervention of the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Maroš Šefčovič, a group of major European Commission scientific researchers pointed out that these investments, real investments in low-carbon resources, could reduce energy prices in the long term. We are behind Finland, which is more than 22%, for Bulgaria, which is at 25% draw, we are at 5%. It's not just about the environment, but it's about absolutely establishing projects, and I'm asking you, I've also asked you what you're going to do in the future, that these projects will be implemented and that this spending of funds will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u266	Dear Member, I am very reluctant to go to foreign cabbages. Your questions also concern energy efficiency measures and renewable energy measures, which are in the energy directorate domain of the Ministry of Infrastructure. They have, of course, foreseen measures for these objectives under their Recovery and Resistance Plan drawing-up programme. But I'm not going to comment on them, because that doesn't belong in my department. I have told you what belongs to my department and what we have in the framework of the Ministry of Environment and Space, such as water supply, waste water treatment and treatment systems, flood safety and digitalisation in terms of bureaucratic stress, when we talk about obtaining permits when we talk about environmental data, about interventions into space, and finally about the acquisition and adoption of municipal spatial acts and building permits. This is the responsibility of the Ministry, where we have also alocate the funds. However, I fully agree with you that investments in both renewable energy and efficient use do not have sufficient acceleration and need further acceleration if we are to achieve the ambitious objectives that both the agreement in Glasgow and Fit for 55 support, this is the legislative package presented by the European Commission last year, which will also have to be reflected by the renewed NEPN, this is a national climate and energy plan. The preparation of the updated NEPN also falls within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as it will respond to how effective use and renewable resources policies can achieve these ambitious objectives both in the energy sector and in the transport and industry sectors as well as in agriculture. The Ministry of Environment and Space has one segment here, which is also not negligible, is important, it is waste management and, above all, efficient and better waste management. This Parliament will take note of Thursday of the new Environmental Protection Act, which represents important progress in particular in the field of waste management policies, where we will focus on all of the targets for these wastes that are being treated or disposed of as little as possible to avoid waste generation as possible and then to all other measures such as reuse, recycling and so on. In short, Your Honor, I would be happy to answer your question in more detail, but I am not responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal, which I think is an area on which I have asked the Minister a very important question, if not crucial, as far as the development of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned. However, I think that we both, Mr Minister, know where the problem arises, why projects are not being implemented or why they are taking place so slowly. Indeed, you have prepared the invitation to tender, the invitation to tender has been issued. It is also true that water supply does not fall within the jurisdiction of state institutions or is a matter of local communities. However, I stress, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that my proposal to discuss this subject at one of the next meetings is voted on. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We will vote on your procedural proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now we continue with the questions. Mr Matjaž German has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Good evening and a nice greeting, high choir! I will touch on the issues of the proposed amendment to the Law on Gambling, which we will address this Wednesday and also vote on it. It's a dangerous intervention in both classical and special gambling. In fact, they have been attacked by, I will say, some of the different policies that we have been used to so far, because the practice so far has been to seek a relationship between what this industry has contributed to, that is, good effects, and those that have a slightly worse impact on society. That is why the law has so far been organised in such a way that humanitarian, disabled, and sports organizations have had the most of the gambling. From now on, it is unclear how you will be financed from now on. But nice and easy. The law is extremely harmful and undermines labour rights. Here I am talking about those who are employed in companies that are engaged in special gambling, such as the Hit from Nova Gorica, because by abolishing licensing, they would abolish the obligation of professional competence of workers, especially those who are so important in the casinos to establish a real contact between the provider and, I will say, a searcher for the satisfaction of gambling, that is, players. It introduces severe competition on the basis of arbitral decisions. This means that on an equally large market, the number of providers will be concentrated mainly from abroad, and an aggressive campaign will increase. The market will not increase, but only products will be encouraged in the same way, if I may say so, in an aggressive way, by experts stress that aggressive marketing and more accessible gambling opportunities will also increase addiction, which is also proven. As has already been said, it does not save the ownership of enterprises such as Hit, additionally burdens players in the industry and brings new risks due to the different products that are, I will say, those that bite in so far known. Dear Minister, none of the relevant organisations support your law, today, as well as the last Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations – FIHO has renounced this initiative, with today's letter. I want to know: How do you plan to mitigate the consequences of uncontrolled competition and aggressive marketing of risky gambling products due to the adoption of a new law on gambling?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u272	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. First, I would like to answer those questions that you have already said during the debate. First. With the amendment – I think it has already been adopted on the committee – it is ensured that all humanitarian and disability organisations will receive just as much money as they have received so far. If they don't get it out of gambling, the difference will cover the budget. So that from this point of view, financial stability is guaranteed to all humanitarian and disability organisations, at least as far as it has been, and certainly can be greater. With regard to the education of workers, I would like to say that only compulsory education, which has been done so far, is being abolished here in accordance with the European guidelines on the free exercise of professions and also on the free provision of services, because it can be somewhat monopolistic, which, of course, does not deny that all those working in the field of gambling should also be educated. Last but not least, it is my special intention and I think that these governments, too, should be encouraged as much as possible by education. Second, education, of course, is for reaching certain charters and so on, to strengthen some monopolistic position, perhaps even by which organizations. Here it is completely free and I think that, of course, companies are the ones that are most interested in having quality workers, and of course also adequately paid. The issue of tip is also settled, and I think this has also been settled or will be settled if the law is adopted if this High Council adopts this law. So there shouldn't be any questions here either. Secondly, the main question is how it will be ensured. Here I must say that there are a number of criteria in the law itself on which concessions are actually established. These criteria are from saturation with gambling, concentration and so on. Following the current strategy, there are no given, I think that there are half the concessions that are theoretically possible to grant. I think there's a couple of them in 20, I'm talking about gaming salons, which you've also talked about as a great competition for these classic casinos. Here, I will say, they also reject certain initiatives to spread certain players in the casino. Even today or yesterday, I speak symbolically, this is actually happening. The second thing I would like to say is that all the control mechanisms remain in force, which means that municipalities, local communities, also have a role to play in these games, including in the award of concessions. It's all there is. There are also large casinos or casinos with classic games or live games, of course there is ownership of the country. So it is impossible to privatise, if you want, or sell a share by not actually deciding on all strategic decisions. The point is that – here I am not just talking about Hit, we have other casinos, bigger casinos – these casinos go in step also over time in the area of some new games or especially in the field of games, which are now not being performed physically in the casino, but are being carried out online. Here concessions for these gambling also have existing casinos, if you talk about casinos that also perform so-called live games. Transparency in this regard is increasing, control is increasing, control over who makes gambling happen, and warnings to young people and, finally, greater criminal provisions for infringements.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u274	But, Minister, that's your opinion, and no one shares that opinion with you. Relevant players in the casino and all those who have the benefit of gambling actually deny you the bill. As has already been said, you are probably not aware, I will just answer you on behalf of FIHO, what it says: "The proposal for a guarantee to cover the losses of concessions from the state budget, which has been added recently, shows that the decline of funds will be a real consequence of the change of legislation." Well, marriage is bad, because if it wasn't, it wouldn't be. But it continues: “At the same time, it does not provide the necessary stability, as it does not provide the necessary resources in full with the other expected consequences of changes to the law.” So, Minister, we will be funding a relatively regulated system from the budget and this is a solution for you. Second time, reverend minister. We are talking about you actually interfering with liberalisation in a way that many European countries have renounced. For we know that a sector such as gambling must also be regulated by monopolies. Here we say that we are protecting not only citizens and citizens, but also state-owned companies. And third, Your Honor. The government in which you are participating has apparently decided to cut the link between the gambling work on the one hand and the tourism activities on the other. Hit is actually a complementary part of the offer, as far as gambling is concerned, both from the point of view of casinos and peripheral activities, which also promote other forms of tourism. But at Hit, changes in the development generator of regional tourism. So, I'm in the role of defending the interest of the Goriška region, because you're interfering in an unknown area in an unknown way, and no one hesitates that what you're doing is good. You're going into a dangerous game. As is the case with Savi Turism, you could quickly find Hit in a pitiful state. Dear Minister, what plans do you have with Hit from Nova Gorica?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u276	If you're thinking about privatizing the hit and so on, no plans. Plans are only to strengthen tourism, to strengthen tourism along with gambling. Last but not least, 15 years ago, this intensity was all over the place. Unfortunately, with the added value between tourism and gaming, gambling has also become increasingly concentrated in the same companies. So here I have to say this vision of my own. This is said, as far as any privatisation is concerned, I don't know anyone and I'm not in contact with anyone who wants anything about it, it's called privatisation. All my contacts have been reported to the anti-corruption commission. I've already answered that twice. I can answer that for the third time. And since the last time I answered you, I haven't had any contact with that. Next thing you know, this is where I'm gonna say it. Once again, if any humanitarian organisation or other organisation loses such funds, we will replace this from the budget. It's just a guarantee. This does not mean that this will actually happen, it is only a guarantee that we have given and we have also been in contact with these organisations. So, from this point of view, if you want, the social state and, above all, solidarity with disability and sports organisations is ensured by the state. I hope and I think that gambling, yes, will develop mainly in the direction of greater tourism offers. But, of course, I must say that these assurances have always been made by the local environment, and then unfortunately more, I will say, it only stressed gambling, especially because of the added value. Surely the added value in gambling is greater than in hospitality and tourism. Once again, I have absolutely no plans. This government doesn't have any plans either. Even if the law is adopted and enforced, it is likely to pass on to the next government.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u278	Thank you very much. So, respectable, we have a relatively profitable industry, we have a relatively regulated law that allows funding, as already said, to humanitarian, disability and sports organisations. So the system that the lion, and we will, excuse the expression, spoil it. And you admit that you will do so, because as a guardian you allow co-financing from the budget. But, Minister, we have legislation in place, and you will promise that future governments will deal with the fact that if, for example, a humanitarian organisation stores less money from this title, you will provide it from the budget, and not in a transparent way, as the FIHO itself notes in today's record. This will also be the priority of the mid-session. Those who tried to get you through the marriage with the amendment denied it because it was an unconstant marriage. But not only do we undermine labour rights, not only do we open up the monopoly that we can have in Slovenia or in Nova Gorica bookshops, as we know them in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Serbia, and so on, as has already been said, it threatens disabled organisations and risks gambling products, of course through more aggressive advertising by providers who come to Slovenia or are already in Slovenia. Given that this is a relatively closed circle of players, both of them, I am talking about classic and special gambling, the cannibalism within this same sector will begin, if you will excuse me. And the competition is going to get bigger, it's going to be looking for bigger returns, so it's going to be more aggressive, and then it's going to become more addictive with gambling. Everyone warns, the matter is transparent in front of the eyes, we know that we are doing something wrong, everyone warns, even the Hit employees are threatening to say that I am not talking about all these letters of organisations that we have received, virtually all organizations from Karitas to the Union of Co-existence or European Lottery Associations, all relevant actors warn that the law is harmful and you are kicking your head through the wall. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, it is more than necessary for us to have a debate in the National Assembly next to the middle of the debate, if the law is adopted, on the issue of not repeating Sava Tourism with Hit and with other providers of both classical and special gambling. We have a system in place. I don't know why we're going to tear it down. I don't know who it's meant for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u279	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Mr. Dejan Kaloh will ask Minister of Health Janez Poklukkar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u280	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Minister of Health Janez Poklukar! First thanks for everything you have done during your ministry during this difficult period covida-19 and of course thanks for all the necessary investments in Slovenian health. First of all, I would like to express this gratitude to you, of course, for all the investments you have already made. Allow me because I come from the Maribor end, from our Stajerska, to UKC Maribor for a long time, they also publicly point out that one of the most important investments is the upgrade of oncology and that it has not yet been classified among the 10 priorities in the period 2021-2031. They are also in some way then, I have followed the media, explained that for the time being this is not included in the budget period for the next two years, says 2022 and 2023, but that after numerous talks at the Ministry an agreement has been reached that once the documentation between UKC Maribor and later between the Ministry, the upgrade of oncology may be included in the state budget for this year. Because they want to start building this year. The very director of UKC Maribor, Mr Anton Crnjac, has in fact repeatedly publicly highlighted spatial distress, says that the spatial expansion of the oncology department due to the marked lack of beds for cancer patients in UKC Maribor, which come naturally from the whole area of north-eastern Slovenia, is more than necessary. Here, however, it is worth pointing out two things that are most obvious. In the first place, it is the welfare of serious cancer patients. And secondly, because there are no suitable spaces for oncology, the professional side of the matter cannot develop as quickly as in UKC Ljubljana. I believe that it is somehow clear to everyone that the upgrade of oncology in UKC Maribor will be sufficient in the context of enlargement and more and more bed capacity, that this will help cancer patients in north-eastern Slovenia very much. Dear Minister, I ask you: How far are you at the Ministry of Health with UKC Maribor regarding the spatial expansion of the oncology department? Where is the investment in the context of the NRP and in the capacity to confirm this once in the Government and to provide adequate state resources for this investment? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u281	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, with the distinguished Ambassador of Magi. Dejan Kaloh! Thank you very much for this important question. The Oncology Department of the Maribor University Clinical Centre has been operational since 2016. There are three departments: the radiotherapy unit, the internalist oncology unit and the palliative care unit. In all these years, the main challenge, after the infrastructure has been built, was a sufficient number of well-trained personnel, but they have recently completed this and now again the human resources pressures have come to the fore, given that in the field of oncology, the Maribor clinical centre is the main one, not to say almost the only one covering the whole or a very large part of the oncology for the eastern part of Slovenia. Because of the spatial distress, there are only those patients who have acute cancer treatment there, of course there is no room for all those doctors who could be treated by them. On the other hand, those who experience complications or prolonged hospitalisation after, for example, being treated are hospitalized in many other departments of the Maribor University Clinical Centre. With current management, we have been working practically since the beginning on the Maribor University Clinical Centre strategy, which is one of the main priorities of which is the setting up of an appropriate oncology clinic or the upgrading of the current one. So the Maribor University Clinical Center is now in the final form or final document of the investment. Once this has been reviewed, the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Health in relation to previous baselines or previous applications have already been prepared when this is reviewed and definitively coordinated will, of course, be included in the NRP. Because oncology itself is linked to the new construction of an infection clinic at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, because certain buildings will be torn down and patients will be transferred to this location during these constructions. Therefore, the timeline is important and at the same time the oncological clinic of the university clinical centre itself. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. You won't. Okay. Let's move on. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Defense of Magi a question. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, chairman. Obviously, as usual, I will talk to myself in the field of arms procurement, since Minister Tonin is not with us in the hall to answer the question. He probably has a good reason for being detained, but his absence is quite symbolic, very much in line with the summary of government priorities, which I have taken away from him more than once in that for the government of Janez Janša the commission is more important than democracy. I would like to ask Minister Tonin about the procedures for purchasing boxer 8x8, with which he is in such a hurry. It is very clear that the Government's political intention is to sign all possible arms treaties that it can, exhaust public funds and exhaust the state budget before leaving and before the April 24th elections, and then to deal with any other government that will come to the present power. In particular, my questions for Minister Tonin are three: When is the Minister supposed to conclude a memorandum of understanding for Boxer? When does he intend to make all the programming decisions with OCCAR? When is he planning to sign the main contract for the purchase of vehicles with the German company ARTEC? We are talking about spending, we are talking about EUR 412 million for 53 armoured men, who are totally unfit for any defence of the country, and they are not being bought for it after all. It is purchased after the NATO Pact's dictatorship to transform the Slovenian Army into an expedition corps of NATO to operate on missions as well as 10,000 kilometres outside the borders of our country, or even more broadly, for the occupation of foreign territory, as was the case in Afghanistan in the shadow of the American invasion. This amount, EUR 412 million, is not the only amount. The purchase of boxers 8x8 is placed in the context of Tonin's Law for EUR 780 million, which is the legal basis for the State's commitment to multi-annual financing of arms purchases also in the future. It is not surprising, however, that the Government is also in a hurry with all these arms purchases from the point of view of the procedure. The emergency meetings are convened, and only the current meeting with the sudden expansion of the agenda is an example of how the OCCAR approach to the purchase of 8x8 boxes is continued. Of course, in the context of this haste, people are allowed and prohibited from the right to a referendum. This was the case with the 780 million euro law, and with the resolution on the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, also with the purchase of armoured personnel, which we oppose both in Levica and in opposition to it in the vast majority of citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, since the Minister was not present, would you like a written or oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u286	I expect an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler to the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, chairman. Besides, I've been looking through this list to see if the minister should be present. I guess they're gone. Before New Year's Eve Aha, bravo! [[…]] He heard me. Hello, Mr. Secretary! Before the new year was passed the Long-Terms Act, which we had been waiting for for a number of years, almost 20 years. Hand to heart, the marriage is quite impeccable and flawed. It offers almost more questions than answers. I am therefore sure that a number of amendments will be needed, particularly in the financial aspect. In this way, 2022 will certainly pass in search of solutions for sustainable long-term care, which will provide all Slovenians with a decent age, since the law in its accepted form does not provide users with some tangible, better and more accessible services. Before the law is applied in practice, many more laws will have to be amended and missing rules and regulations adopted, since only these will ensure that users can actually receive the services they need when they need them. Among other things, it will be necessary to prepare, coordinate and adopt a more detailed set of long-term care services, more detailed minimum spatial, technical and security conditions and long-term supply standards, an assessment methodology to assess eligibility for long-term care services, staff standards, standard accommodation prices and so on. And that's not what I'm saying. All of these were highlighted by those who will meet the long-term care system in practice, as well as the majority of the professional public. The long-term care system, if it is to be quality, safe and widely accessible, must also be financially sustainable. That's why I want to know: Where will you provide the missing funds for long-term care? How much will the new insurance contribution you introduced by law be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Minister, who's first? Minister Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u290	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Member, honourable Members! Dear Mr Vojko Starović, thank you very much for this question. The Long-Term Care Act is an important upgrade to the current regime, as the area of systemic regulation and provides significantly better conditions for those in need of long-term care, including in the financing work, as rights or services will be financed from public resources. The means of ensuring the rights arising from the Long-Terms Act are until 2025, i.e. during the period when rights are introduced gradually, provided from existing sources from which services or rights of long-term care are already provided, and from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. By 30 June 2025, when the rights under the Long-Term Care Act have already begun to be fully guaranteed, it is, of course, envisaged that a special law on compulsory long-term care insurance will be in force to regulate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Janez Ciegler King, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr Vojko Starovic, for this question. The Minister of Health, who is also the holder of this law, has already responded very well. I will add some more facts to the responsibility of the department, whose responsibility I bear. More detailed explanations on the sources of financing and the long-term care insurance system have been heard as much as we can give to date. The Long-Terms Act provides, in particular, for financing in Articles 48 and 52. The Minister has listed funding sources that are: compulsory long-term care insurance, funds collected from compulsory health and pension and disability insurance, state budget, demographic fund funds, when created, the European Union budget and grants and other resources. However, Article 52 provides that a specific law will be adopted setting out the conditions for compulsory long-term care insurance, the basis for the payment of contributions and the contribution rate, the revenue and expenditure of compulsory long-term care insurance, the way in which contributions and debtors are accounted for and paid. In relation to a more detailed set of long-term care services, a variety of services are provided under the law, namely basic daily tasks, support for day-care and health care, basic daily tasks, support and maintenance services, and e-services. The range and scope of services will be determined for individuals according to their estimated needs or the resulting eligibility and classification estimates in the long-term care category. The Long-Term Care Act allows for both non-monetary and monetary rights, I am thinking mainly of the monetary remuneration provided for in the law. I would hardly agree that the law offers more questions than answers. On the contrary, long-term care providers and both ministries, experts believe that this is the law that we adopt, I can say, at least 15 years too late, and that we had a debt to all users and service providers of long-term care to put this long-term supply finally on a systemic basis. What is another major novelty and direction of this law? The freshest approach is to primarily support people so that they can stay as long as possible at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u294	Thank you very much. I certainly see that we agree that the law needs additions and refinements. I hope that the professional public will be sufficiently involved in further procedures and that those called from social institutions do not know who, to the health system, doctors, including associations, as well as the Social Chamber, to cooperate and comment if we want to get to quality issues. Because in Slovenia we undoubtedly need services based on solidarity, equality and efficiency, as well as environmental sustainability. Therefore, adequate health care, education, care for the elderly, housing, public transport, information is essential. In any case, they would allow people to satisfy their basic needs, whether they could afford them or not. We're talking about solidarity. The first step in the right direction was done in the SAB by introducing free transport for the elderly. This allows them to visit a doctor, family members at no extra cost, not least to benefit from long-term care. At the same time, the measure has also taken a step forward in terms of sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Poklukar, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u296	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Thank you very much for the updated opinion and question. What I just wanted to add is that the law has a transitional period in which everything you've listed is being prepared for realisation. Here, let me thank the leadership of the ZZZS, who is carefully preparing all the steps, so that the law will eventually be enforceable. For the ZZZ requires enormous effort, it is a new chapter. Thank you very much to the management and to all the employees who are engaged these days to come to realization. On the other hand, I would point out that the sub-laws mentioned by you have been closely aligned with the Ministry of Labour and the ZZS and the Ministry of Health since the adoption of the law. I think that out of the nine sub-legislative acts, six are more or less ready and will probably be put under public scrutiny this week, so that the wider professional and interested public can participate in the preparation of sub-legislative acts that will actually enable us to carry out long-term care in the best way or in the way that those in need can obtain it at the right time, in a qualitative and, of course, appropriate way. So thank you again for this question and initiatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Minister, please choose an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Vojko Starović! I certainly think that it feels and notices that this government has great attention at the same time to the needs of the elderly in the care of the elderly. Both systemic and, I can say, intervention during this difficult period of the past two years, we are making great efforts, including financial resources, and we are helping to ensure that the area is also adequately staffed, which is not the subject of controversy, but is as important as all assets and networks and professional criteria and rules on the conditions of long-term care. I believe that we have also shown great affection for the elderly through all the measures taken by the Government, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the entire Government to facilitate the transport of older people by public transport. Trains, buses, this is where we really tried to relieve the elderly as much as possible. However, we have systematically approached these changes in the care of the elderly so that we can ensure a decent autumn of life for our elderly fellow citizens and fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u300	My procedural proposal is that we deal with the matter once again in the National Assembly, because I think the topic is so important, so much so that it is right to discuss it again. Why? We have experience that laws are adopted in contravention of our resolution on normative activities, in order to be adopted in a short, urgent procedure without a prescribed public debate. So let me be a little skeptical about this. And it's also right in the National Assembly. I didn't even get an answer to the main question, that's how much the new contribution will be. With a few hundred or thousands of employees working in this area through ministries, this calculation could be made approximately to be able to tell people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u301	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of the Environment and the Magi space. Andre Visiak and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u302	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Last November, I addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a written initiative for the systematic management and rehabilitation of mining damage and degraded environment in the city of Idrija due to the centuries-old operation of the mercury mine and to the management of the landfill for waste loaded with mercury. I also proposed that these works be provided with adequate funding from the State budget. I also proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that a consultation be convened on this subject, inviting representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Development and European Cohesion Policy, the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury, the Regional Community of the City of Idrija and the Municipality of Idrija. I didn't get an answer until last week, after more than two months, even though the deadline for answering was 30 days. The government, in response to Pilate's request, washed its hands with the fact that the liquidation of the mercury mine business entity Idrija dried up the right to pay off the mining damage, even though he is my Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak replied to my question about the rehabilitation of mining damage and the degraded environment in Idrija on 15 June 2020 that he is prepared to cooperate in this regard and together with other sources and with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to find an appropriate solution, as they committed themselves in the coalition agreement to actively solving these problems in the country. That's why the Minister of Mags. Mr Andrej Visiak and Minister Zdravka I ask: How will they approach the problems that I have identified in my parliamentary initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the systematic regulation and rehabilitation of mining damage and the degraded environment in the city of Idria, to which I do not think I have received the appropriate answers or the answer was very weak and unilateral? I also don't know who signed it on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because the secretariat of the Government is signed to answer. I would like to thank Minister Viszak for his reply in advance, while I look forward to the answer to the question I have addressed to Minister Pozvalska at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u303	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u304	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. I insist on my response, which I gave you a while ago, and I will now make it even more concrete. The Ministry of the Environment shall act in accordance with the Mining Waste Directive on closed mining premises and shall regularly monitor the situation of closed mining facilities throughout the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, we also made or ordered and obtained a report on the condition of closed mining facilities, which was made last October, that is to say a few months ago. The report was presented to municipalities and the general public at the end of October by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Geological Institute, and presentations were attended by representatives of the Municipality of Idrija as well as the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Mercury in Idrija. The overall conclusion of the presentation was that the closed mining facilities in Idria were stable, but some environmental problems in all areas, not only in Idrija, where mining activities had been carried out in the past, would also require additional measures to improve the environmental situation. This applies in particular to the area of the Mežiški valley, which is, of course, elsewhere, and also to the area of Idria. The ILO will therefore, in this year and next year, draw up, on the basis of the results of this report, expert bases for the adoption of an appropriate government act specifying the area, as well as remedial measures, timetables and instruments for the implementation of these measures, and financial resources within the budget for the implementation of these measures. Particular attention will also be paid to identifying areas for the safe disposal of contaminated land with heavy metals. This task will only be possible with constructive cooperation with the local community or local communities where these types of waste originate. This also applies to the Idria area. In the budgets already adopted, we have the financial resources already provided for the preparation of the professional bases I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u306	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I am surprised that this was not included in the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which it sent to my address. Obviously, the answer was very one-sided, in particular, I think, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because the answer went only towards the liquidation of the company. And then, since the company is gone, there is no address for those who would pay mining damages, even though the mining damage has not yet been fully recovered and a project of innovation of this mining damage will have to be made. However, I am glad that this report is prepared. Unfortunately, the future government will have to deal with it, whatever it is. I hope that the one in which we will play a very important role will also be the Social Democrats. I think that this is still a pretty big problem, which concerns more departments, and I believe that these resources should connect and work together to solve this very complex problem. However, in this initiative, I have made an announcement to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I have also reiterated in this question of the Member States, that I am calling on all stakeholders concerned with solving this problem to sit down and begin to tackle the problem actively as soon as possible. I did not get an answer to that question, so I also expect a part of the reply from Minister Restorationk at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Dear Member! Indeed, the mining damage that has been caused to the environment in the past does not know the division between departments, nor does it know the division between political parties. That is why, of course, I am counting on us to work together in the future government to solve this problem, including in Idrija, in the Mežíska Valley, in the Celje Valley and in the other wounds that have been caused by past economic activities, in particular mining activities in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the accession of this government is concerned, it is clear, as it is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. That's why I mentioned it in that answer you quoted from the past. We insist on this and will insist on this in the coming term.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Member, the oral answer to your second part of the question concerning the Minister of Economy will be received at the next meeting. I suggest we move on. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister of Health Janez Poklukar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister Poklukar, good evening! Thanks to the virus, me and other colleagues, you are today the most welcome minister on these issues, so congratulations on the result achieved. But let's get to the point. Following the outbreak of omicron versions of SARS-COV-2, epidemiologists proposed a change in the quarantine method. Under the new rules, there is only one exception, namely, for a person who has had a high risk of contact with the infected, there is no need for quarantine only if he has received a booster dose of the vaccine. This exception cannot be applied in children and adolescents because the vaccination rules do not allow us a booster dose for minors. If we received it on our own, I mean, especially high school students, so we could still go to school after a risky contact. I want to know: Why should adolescents between 15 and 18 years of age not be allowed to receive a third dose of vaccine when they wish to receive a booster vaccine with the consent of their parents or caregivers? With it, we could have a classic schooling, which would not only contribute to the best performance of the learning process but also to prevent more frequent depression in students due to long and repeated separations from schoolmates. As a health minister, you can also react by correcting the conditions for the imposition of quarantine in schools, either by introducing an additional exemption for full vaccinated adolescents or by not prohibiting the booster dose of the vaccine to those who want it. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u311	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u312	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Mag. Branislav Rajić, thank you very much for the question. Speaking of quarantine exemptions, let me say that since January 10th, there have been newly defined exemptions from quarantine, and there are three. The first is given as a booster dose, the second is those who have been fully vaccinated and once got over it is not an important sequence of these events, such as vaccination and disease, and the third is those who have been over the disease within 45 days. 19. 1. For reasons to organise the work and functioning of schools as easily as possible, we have adopted, on the basis of the opinion of epidemiologists, a supplement to the exceptions to quarantine at home, including students who have been in high-risk contact at school, provided that each time they come to school or the educational institution is tested or tested on their own, and at the same time the department is quarantined when the number of members of the department who are infected with covid-19 reaches 30%. I understand your concern that vaccination should also be possible for under 18 years of age, thereby allowing them first their greater safety or health and at the same time the functioning of schools. However, I should like to point out here that we are following what is being done to the European Medicines Agency which makes these recommendations, and so far the European Agency – EMA has not issued a recommendation for a booster dose vaccination for under 18 years. At the same time, to be honest, Italy has decided to vaccinate under the age of 18 – I think it has decided for 12 to 18 years – but I think Austria too, but these are exceptions to this decision, while the profession still collects data on the basis of which it would make such a decision. We have an advisory group for vaccination at the National Institute for Public Health, which regularly monitors what EMA accepts, such as studies related to vaccination and vaccines around the world, especially for covid-19. So far, this recommendation has not been made. However, I understand here that we could also view this as going on in this part between the disease and the vaccinated or those who have been over and vaccinated, even as opposed to obtaining the QR code, because those who first got over it and were then vaccinated within 180 days and then revaccinated with the booster dose have today an unlimited QR code. Those who, for example, had been vaccinated first got over and then were vaccinated again, but did not, but were limited to 270 days. But here these rules set out a European regulation relating to a European digital cadaver certificate, so we could not change this part, but epidemiologists went across here and said that those who got over it and were vaccinated twice at the same time, regardless of the sequence, are an exception to quarantine. But it is true, once again, for children who are our future, where security is even more pronounced, but it is even more in the first place than anywhere else. So far, our experts and members of the vaccination advisory group have not recommended that they should be vaccinated with a booster dose when it is and if it is, I will be the first to go and follow the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, thank you so much for your answer, it's well-structured. I understand everything you're talking about, that it's also related to the EMA regulations, but I would like to emphasise just what you might have overlooked as an epilogue in the entire vaccination episode, because by maintaining the current conditions you are actually doing a bear service to both health and solidarity society. Because what's the message to the young people? Even if you are responsible and have been vaccinated, your life will not be easier than those who have not. This is something that probably, as a minister, as a health ministry, should try to improve this part in some way. Because this is a kind of promotion of educational mistrust in science and, as a result, the erosion of the individual's social responsibility is precisely at a time when social responsibility must be strengthened. I believe that the urgency of your daily current activities does not allow you to have in-depth strategic reflections on how to prevent the regression of public health in the Middle Ages, but if you push your head into the sand on these issues, you will deny science its main role. Since this is not an ethical doctrinal dilemma, for example, for or against contraception or abortion, it is to foster understanding and solidarity for young generations as essential values of society. Companies that will form it themselves and may face a more deadly virus than this — and do not get vaccinated — so as to ensure collective immunization. Nevertheless, I am pleased with your answers and will not demand or propose further discussions on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like a word to complete the answer? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u316	Thank you so much for saying that, Vice President. Thank you very much for the updated question or opinion, mag. Rajic. It's just like you said. As a minister, you hesitate a lot of times to make a move so you can be as effective as you can be. But first of all, when we talk about vaccination, there's always the safety of vaccines and the safety of our children. While regulators such as EMA and our profession, the consultative group on vaccination, give a positive opinion on this, regardless of how you or I think, this step, of course, cannot be taken as Minister. By following the profession, we will continue to follow this one. I understand your appeal, it is not the only one, it is all over Slovenia, even around the world a similar view. However, as soon as it is, I declare it, as soon as it is recommended by the profession, we will or will follow and in this direction also allow vaccination for under 18 years. As long as it is not, however, the safety and health of children, which must also be ensured during vaccination, are paramount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mateja Udovč will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In our country, Dr. Aleksandre Pivec, we are very concerned about daily road congestion due to unadjusted road infrastructure at both the state and local levels. One such example is the day-to-day congestion on the road Brnik-Kranj, and it is even worse because this stop is also reflected on the mountain highway from the Ljubljana route. In the future, this situation will be made even more difficult as the new Kranj industrial zone is expected to expand in this area, where hundreds of new jobs are planned. It is already clear today that traffic at this section will be even more dense and stagnant. The fact is that the traffic pressure in the event of inappropriate rapid action will increase, in particular in the village of Hrastje, which is part of an alternative route, which is already decided by drivers in the event of increased traffic on the road. If we do not act, people will systematically opt for an alternative path if they want to avoid it, which is contrary to the interests of the local population. Today we cannot and must not afford to cause another new traffic collapse in Slovenia – in the urban village of Hrastje – due to the late construction of the Brnik-Kranj. For many years, the idea plans for the extension of the Brnik-Kranj road to a two-passenger and a new circle linking motorway exports with Jesenic, a local road and a regional road. I'm asking you: Are you familiar with the problem of the extension of the Brnik-Kranj road? Why is most of the budget allocated for the extension of the Brnik-Kranj road not foreseen until after 2026? What will you do to avoid a new traffic collapse in Slovenia in the village of Hrastje? Will you start by building this crossroad by expanding the road in 2022, as you told me at the summit of the coalition in Gorenjska? Do you have completed studies on what environmental pressures today cause a slow traffic jam on this road? Since this issue is of concern and cannot wait for answers until the next regular meeting of the National Assembly, under Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the Minister for a written reply as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u319	Thank you, too. Primož Siter will ask the Culture Minister Dr Vask Simoniti and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u320	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Minister, hello, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! There is no Minister of Rest, so I will ask if he can answer my question in writing regarding the provision of social security for self-employed persons in events during the epidemic. The event activity is of all economic, if we understand it, the sector most affected by the epidemic. Concerts, events, performances, meetings and so on were the first at the beginning of the epidemic to go out, and they will probably be the last to come to their senses, so to speak, or to come to normal after the end of the epidemic. Companies and institutions, therefore organisers and their employees have thus been completely out of work for two years, at least mostly without work, while the events have partly recovered during the epidemic, but the organisers estimate that the epidemic has completely reduced the industry by about 85 per cent of the volume of work and income. It is also important to note that the event area employs some 10,000 people, 10,000 workers and workers, whose situation has, of course, deteriorated significantly over the past two years. In the industry, only 10 per cent of workers and workers are employed on a regular basis, and so on under normal conditions. All the rest are pens, seasonal, project jobs. So, 9,000 workers and workers. Their survival depends on attending events, the conditions for their execution, or on the assistance of the State at that time, and on its strategic planning for the survival of this crippled sector. I ask ministers from both departments covering this area of the event the following questions: Have the competent ministries ever put forward any successful aid strategy for the event industry and its workers? Since I have a minister of culture here, I would ask him to focus mainly on self-employed people in this sector: What effective aid mechanisms can operators, i.e. businesses and their workers, use today to survive? Again, focus on self-employed people in culture: What are the prospects of the industry for a normal start again? Fourth question in this package: What effective mechanisms can operators, i.e. businesses and their workers, with an emphasis on self-employed workers, use today to survive? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u321	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. At the outbreak of the pandemic, the Ministry of Culture was aware of all the problems encountered by the closure of the cultural sector. That is why we have sought a number of intervention measures, which, of course, would soften the scope and thus enable once again to revive culture in all areas. If I just list a few measures for self-employed people. This is the basic monthly income, the reimbursement of social security contributions, the cultural activity voucher. At the same time, in the past two years, we have also provided - for 2022 we still provide - all current means of operation; that is, all current resources for the functioning of the cultural sector, including self-employed people in culture, to a much larger extent than before the epidemic. This is also the payment of social security contributions to all self-employed people in culture with the right to pay contributions. All planned programme and project calls for non-governmental organisations and self-employed people in culture have been carried out and have provided the same or even higher funding than in previous years. Public institutions have received all funds for planned programmes, including for the implementation of planned contracts with self-employed people in culture. The duration of the covida-19 epidemic shall be taken into account in the implementation of alternative forms of events over the Internet or in any other adapted form, irrespective of the smaller number of visitors. Various forms of work scholarships have been awarded, but the invitation to tender for self-employed scholarships in a culture concluded earlier this year showed an extremely poor response to self-employed persons, as not a third of the 52 job scholarships awarded have been signed up. We are currently conducting calls under the planned cohesion funds, which also provide additional funding for self-employed persons. We have provided an additional 86 million funding for culture within the framework of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, which will also allow self-employed people in culture to have a number of planned projects and so on. Despite the extremely poor epidemiological situation and the ban on other forms of public gathering, we have also ensured that cultural events are allowed up to a maximum of 750 visitors at 50 per cent of fixed seats, ensuring that all cultural activities, taking into account the prescribed health protection measures, can work. The Ministry of Culture has provided all the conditions for the implementation of programmes to the extent and even to a greater financial value than provided before the outbreak of covida-19. Compared to most other European countries, we have our own example of good practice in providing basic conditions for the operation of artists and other creators, a special status that provides self-employed people with health and social contributions from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for culture. It also allocates a higher average share of gross social product in culture, 0.6 per cent, which puts us in a high place, because the average in Europe is 0.4 per cent, and we also give 2 per cent of the state budget, which is the most that has been given so far. It follows from all the above that the Ministry of Culture has carried out its primary task of supporting culture, which is defined as a public interest, to a greater extent than before the epidemic. From this we conclude that the difficult situations you are talking about are mainly the result of the loss of market activities in the field of culture, which does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, but within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Perhaps, or surely, Minister Restorationšek will say more when he has the opportunity to be present. In fact, the Ministry of Culture has followed all processes very carefully, precisely and responsibly during this two-year crisis and has justified its role with financial injections and with great attention to self-employed people in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am glad that you mentioned how you cooperate or how the self-employed and other actors in the field responded. Your colleagues, or ministries, cultural ministries across Europe, are the first thing, at least in these countries, for which we can say that they are exemplary in handling this problem, have first opened a dialogue with stakeholders; that is, with operators, with businesses, with institutions, with self-employed creators in such or otherwise, and in fact have made great efforts to design some strategies, how to design a strategy together with them, which would enable the organisation and implementation of events now, so in these difficult times, and some exit strategy, how to put this thing on its feet. I'm actually interested in: How did this dialogue take place on the basis of a relationship between the contractors and the organisers of the Ministry? How does the government cooperate with the organizers? How many meetings have you had with organizers or organizers performing and self - employed? What exit strategy for life after the epidemic or by the end of the epidemic did you come up with? If you haven't designed it, why not, and if you have, what are you? And one more thing. The first-signed culturers Romano Krajnčan sent a letter to you days ago, perhaps a good week ago, Krajnčan, Kreslin, Gombač and so on, inviting the Ministry of Culture to arrange the position of self-employed. What did the ministry do with this letter, and how did it respond? Have you had any meetings? Did you listen to them? Did you send them an invitation, find a solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u326	With regard to what the Member said that the rest of the ministries across Europe have put great effort into the strategy, the implementation of the events and the exit strategy, it would be good to hear accurate cases and, in particular, to the Ministry of Culture. In particular, take a look at the competences of these ministries of culture in relation to what the Member speaks about market activities and events; what does not, of course, belong to the Ministry of Culture. In Slovenia or in our country, I think we have done at least that in all areas, if not more, compared to all other ministries in Europe. I say this calmly, and we have answered this several times and have also explained and provided complete information on this, in comparison with other ministries in Europe dealing with culture. This is where we took the lead, and this is also from my first answer, and I think it was clear what we have done in this area. I would also say this if we are already saying that in 2020, in addition to all the funds that the State has made available under its budget, which it has also provided to an amount of expenditure, the sum of the 2020 intervention measures in the area of culture resulting from these intervention measures was given 68 million EUR 514 thousand for cultural compensation, subsidisation, exemption from contributions, crisis allowances, monthly basic income, and so on. This was in 2020. In 2021 it was given by September, I think around – I have to look – 42 million. In addition to all the funds provided by the Ministry under its budget. That's one thing. Second thing. As far as Mrs. Krajnčan is concerned, you mentioned her. We have, of course, written down Mrs Krajnčan's letter, in which we have actually responded to what she has requested, and we have also told her in what context to find an answer within the Ministry of the Economy. I must say that, in this regard, the Ministry of Culture has done everything to the best of its ability, as it could have done within its powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u327	Thank you, too. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Minister. It's okay, all the numbers count, but only the self-employed are still hungry, as the association also warned. For example, a while ago, they suggested that the basic income measure should be extended until the situation was normalised. That's what I wanted to ask you, but I'm not going to torture you. In short, the self-employed are in a very difficult situation. The economy, profit, development are actually made by workers, profits are made by workers. In this case, 90 per cent of the self-employed in culture, as I said earlier, are on holiday there. The biggest problem, therefore, is their situation at this point, the social situation that makes it possible for the sector to survive and continue to function. Companies were able to help themselves, for example, with State aid, too late and uncertainly, but the question remains, to what extent this aid has actually been transferred or translated into a social situation or the sustainability of the aid in the case of employees and self-employed persons. And the question remains how the self-employed in culture from specific, cultural, artistic professions can survive today, except that they run a bicycle for Volt in Ljubljana with all due respect for every service that is honorable. Romana Krajnčan, Boris Cavazza, Vlado Kreslin, Boštjan Bombac and so on you were warned about this problem. I'm glad you responded and it's sad that you pointed them forward and said that they should actually find the answers, but their letter somehow ends like this – dancers, musicians and players live. This is the reality of self-employed people in culture today. With all the numbers, the record GDP and the budgets with which you praise the government, after two years of epidemics and a time when you could actually help people, I find that the Ministry of Culture has done very little here. So nothing if we have reports of culture living. It left them in the mercy of the ruined market, if you want to say so to him, which is a shame to say, to the Ministry of Culture. Instead, the Ministry of Culture, of course, destroyed the media landscape, placed its unqualified people at the head of the public media, financially exhausted individuals and institutions, financially exhausted NGOs in culture, global creators, creators of a global format, the best ambassadors of the Republic of Slovenia in the world. In short, the Ministry of Culture Destruction. In the end, let me be critical of the inscription on the front of that protest, and I think it was just in place. Shame! We are looking forward to 24 April, and I call on the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on this at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Culture Dr Vask Simoniti a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u330	Thank you for your word, Vice President. On 18 October 2021, we had an urgent meeting entitled Neonacism is not in the public interest. It was our proposal that the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values, the so-called yellow vests, be deprived of the status of society in the public interest. This happened at the request of the opposition's parliamentary groups, SD, LMŠ, SAB, unrelated and Left. We voted on this decision. Of course, it is clear that the public interest in culture is clearly defined in the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, in its 80th Article, and we have demonstrated and proved through the debate that in this case, the Ministry of Culture has obviously made a mistake. I hope that this was a mistake. In the conclusions, we requested a substantive explanation of the decision to grant status and condemned any hostile action based on the spread of hatred, lies and even threats of liquidation as unconstitutional and unacceptable. We have also called on the competent institutions to verify that this society is acting in accordance with the Constitution and the legislation at all. At the joint meeting, we in particular called on the Ministry of Culture to withdraw the status of society in the public interest from the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values. We know that the president of this company, Urban Purgar, who then landed in prison for criminal acts and was replaced by his other colleague, is known for his statements of how he is a hero and so on. Are these the values you represent? I want to know: What did you do about our conclusions? How far are these procedures of depriving the Society of the Promotion of Traditional Values? Have you overstepped your official powers in the disputed status process? You also know that I gave information of a public nature on 14 June and in your reply on 7 July you replied in most of these points that you do not have documentation on the procedure for granting this special status to this neo-Nazi society. On 16 September 2021, I also made a complaint to the Information Officer for the silence of the Authority, and by decision of 24 December 2021, he gave you a decision to take into account, within 30 days of receipt of the decision, the instructions given by the Information Officer in this Decision. So you have to sort these things out. What and where are we on this now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u332	Thank you very much. We have reported on this society many times and have also informed the public, also on the Committee on Culture and, of course, in all the relevant places, so there is nothing new to add. All I'd say is that the lady said it was a neo-Nazi society. It must, of course, report this, as it is appropriate, to the authorities responsible, and, of course, they will act. I hope that all those relevant authorities will have the appropriate education and that they will also be able to document this properly, so that there will be no doubt that highly educated people with diplomas and judicial exams have actually made all those grounds so that neo-Nazi society, as the Member of Parliament says, will be properly sanctioned. And that, of course, this will be extremely credible, because they must do so, such a thing, competent people with all the grounds to make it credible. For it would certainly be good to prohibit any movements that have permafrost purposes, that these people are qualified and that there is no doubt about their work. Secondly, the role of the Association for the Promotion of Traditional Values has been addressed by an official. On the basis of the documents and declarations submitted, the procedure established, on the basis of the evidence obtained under official duty, that company fulfils all the conditions for granting the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest. The society is a collective entity and cannot be dependent on statements made by individuals, individual members or the president of society. However, the Law on NGOs does not specify in an article regulating the confiscation of the status of society anywhere that a company may be deprived of its status if the president of a society or a member of the public has been made public and says things which, of course, may also be inappropriate. If the Minister had voluntarily ordered the withdrawal of the status, this would be unacceptable, populist political interference with the procedure. It should also be pointed out that the president of the company which made the statement, as it was, explained that his statement was taken from the context and, of course, also apologized and condemned the totalitarian regimes of all. While the Ministry is open to amendments to the legislation where the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest could be withdrawn if the president of a society or members were actually spoken of as totalitarian ideas, this is not the case. However, if they did, this would mean that the status would also be lost by those NGOs that openly and shamelessly support former Yugoslav totalitarianism and its bodies of repression. At the same time, the Ministry also calls on everyone in this left political field, who so conscientiously fights against Nazism and fascism, to finally contribute to the adoption of the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2009, which condemns all totalitarianism in its statement and, in particular, that only in Central and Eastern European countries have they experienced both communism and Nazism and therefore the resolution is also an incentive to understand the dual dictatorship of the former communist states. We are the only country in Europe that has not adopted a resolution, but that Parliament has only come to know it because left-wing Members were unable to accept the fact that the resolution also includes communism as one of the European totalitarians. So, all the grounds, if they are to take away this society's status, to actually find out what is obvious, is a place elsewhere, that is, in law enforcement authorities that have to fulfil their duty carefully, accurately and qualified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u333	Yes, Commissioner, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u334	Minister, I didn't expect anything other than a whole bunch of incomprehensible flossules about some totalitarianism and nonsense. You're setting neo-Nazi against totalitarian Yugoslav, I don't know, communism. You know very well that we lived in socialism. Please! And you lived well in that system, just you and your current passengers! So what you're doing is offensive. But I will only say this: stick to the laws and regulations. And here I don't know where your self-loathing ends as a decision-maker and Minister of Culture. On the basis of the ZUJK, the Regulation laying down the criteria for demonstrating the major achievements of the company's public interest status in the field of education and education, culture and so on, Official Gazette 102/12, 21/18, used in the case under consideration by the Authority in the process of granting the status of society in the public interest, was adopted. The third paragraph of Article 5 provides that, in doubt as to whether a society has made significant achievements in the field of culture — and this doubt is repeatedly expressed — the Minister responsible for culture may, in accordance with the first paragraph of this Article, obtain a prior opinion from the Commission referred to in Article 20 of the ZUIK or the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities before granting or withdrawing a status which is also possible. It follows from that provision that the opinion of the expert committee is not an obligation. In case of doubt or society, it is possible to obtain more significant achievements in the field of culture. Minister, it's in your hands, but you obviously prefer this society and the neo-Naziism they represent, and you somehow put it as a counterpoint to everything you hate. You support them, but the self-employed only get your contempt, play, can't work real creators in culture. You know, that's very painful.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u336	Mr Siter spoke earlier about the Ministry being a disgrace and self-employed people suffering and so on. I ask this famous Levican to make a public commitment that if she wins the elections and comes to Parliament, she will fix what is obvious to us immediately and do it. And then we'll see! So, I also call on the public, and actually I urge them to remember these good people, that what they say is really simple nebulosis, some sound words, they're called demagogies or people's deception. Because the things they talk about, for the first time, little do they know, secondly, let them promise to fulfill them when they come into power. But this right now, not that they're gonna make excuses for not being able to do it. Because these are, as I say, more complicated things. In any event, the Ministry has carefully and thoroughly taken care of and followed all crisis situations, as is the case in all countries throughout Europe in all areas, and the State – and hence the Government and thus the Ministry of Culture – has made every effort to make this impact as low as possible. The self-employed are not some special people, because the end of the self-employed is a lot, about 22 000, not least, that will be better said by the Minister of Economy. On the other hand, there are many people who finish colleges who are highly educated and who are actually looking for a job on the market or where it is necessary, while some think that everything will just happen to them, even if they only have a primary school, and in fact I don't know what they're saying, how great artists are top and global. The minister himself knows something about these things, he knows something about people and knows what excellence is, and he also knows what it means to be known abroad or in the world, as well as to be very talented and superb. Being 20 years old and superior is actually a little difficult. But good. As far as gentlemen are concerned, as far as the society you've been talking about is concerned, I'm once again traveling you because you insist carefully on matters, and I'm sending you to the law enforcement authorities, that is to say, to file these matters. This is all carefully written and carefully done. So, as Minister, of course, I looked at it, you had all the documentation put out, and this society fulfilled all the conditions. It is not concerned with what you claim and, of course, has submitted all the necessary reports and what the Ministry requires of a society to be given this privilege to recognise it as a society in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u337	Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u338	I absolutely expect that we will discuss this at the next meeting. The minister tells me that I don't know much about demagogies. Minister, maybe you're not familiar. 30 years before I came to this Parliament, I worked in a culture – laugh at that – you find everything about culture funny – 15 years in a public institution and 12 years as self-employed. I know very well what traps and ferrets are. To be recognized in the country and in the world. Tell me if the Society for the Promotion of Traditional Values is so famous. It translated two Nazi books, and you gave it a special status that I don't know how it helps the cultural sphere. I would only warn you that you have to stick to the legislation, although you are very self-sufficient and no one can do anything to you. However, for my request for information of a public nature, you have replied to me in most points that you do not have at all the record, which is the statutory obligation, of the committee responsible, have no procedure for appointing members of this commission, have no information on the competences of those members of the commission; you have nothing but your opinion that neo-Naziism is in our common interest. And you know, you just don't have an assessment of the applications, of the funding proposals, of what you don't have at all, you don't have the required documents, even though this is explicitly stated in the Commission Rules. We can therefore conclude that in this particular case, the Authority has acted arbitrarily and with the aim of pursuing political interest, since the traditions of society are close to the current government and the documents for which the applicant requested access to public information should already exist because of the transparency of the work of the body, to which the Authority is ultimately bound by laws and regulations. This, Your Honor, is the opinion of the Information Commissioner. So you, as Minister, are peacefully ignoring the ZUIK, the sub-laws, the regulations, the opinion of the information officer. Please, president, we really need to talk. For this minister violates all laws, and all civil norms, and the attitude towards culture and culture is shameful. Minister, your cynicism, you know, but it's inconceivable and unacceptable. Because you're here because of the culturers, not because of some ideological flossules that you keep selling here. And they would destroy everything that is good and healthy in this society, a living culture, and, of course, they would trample on that critical thought. I'm asking for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u339	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Dusan Verbič will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u340	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to both ministers and others present! Dear Mr. Secretary! A good year ago, you received a request from the Krvavec Hunting family to extend the hunting area for a designated hunting family in accordance with the Wildlife and Hunting Act and with your powers. The hunting family Krvavec has a hunting area for the plain part of the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska. For years the main fishing area is the forest, planted and grassy area around Jožet Pučnika Brnik Airport. With the construction of the hub of the airport, logistics hubs of warehouses and ancillary facilities and preparations for the implementation of the new accompanying infrastructure facilities, the management area and, consequently, the hunting area have already significantly decreased. So far, space intervention has had a strong negative impact on wildlings in the wider area. However, additional care is present on the basis of the envisaged design in this area. The proportion of forest and grass areas where the game is kept has decreased significantly, which has a profound impact on their population. The hunting home of the family and the shooting range is located on Štefanji Gora and this is today in the hunting grounds of LPN Kozorog. The Krvavec hunting family has the average age of its members for 45 years and almost half of them live in villages under Krvavec. They own most of the land on the slopes and pastures of the blood mountains. They also own tourist farms, agrarian and pasture communities. They know the whole area very well, including the wild game. As good nature masters and responsible owners, they are keenly aware of the importance of the shared use of space and game, so they want to bring all these stakeholders together even better. In short, in view of the changed circumstances, they are aware of the necessity to maintain and improve cooperation and to create conditions for the greatest possible biodiversity, growth and management of the animal population. In accordance with the aforementioned, distinguished Minister, there are all the circumstances in which you issue the decision in question, which will be in favour of the Krvavec Hunting family.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u342	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We've known the problem for quite some time in our ministry, too, personally. There have been several initiatives on this subject and several debates, and if solutions were so simple, they would have been adopted a long time ago; however. We are talking about more stakeholders and therefore we need to work them with a sense of all stakeholders, in this case also to the Kosorog hunting ground, also with only the Krvavec hunting family and somehow preparing some optimal solutions. We are aware that the Kravec hunting family is significantly reduced in hunting space. We estimate that at this point about 500 hectares. We know that the Krvavec Hunting family was already in existence or was already receiving some of the areas that were then taken away from the Goat with a special purpose, and it is clear that it is also bordering on this particular hunting ground. So let me cut it short so I won't be too long. We know that the Hunting area with a special purpose of over 50,000 hectares will not have a significant impact on the operation of this fishing area and therefore we are already preparing two regulations at our Ministry. One is the amendment of the Hunting Regulation with a special purpose, if we are to listen to this initiative, we need to change the limits of fishing for a specific purpose. The second sub-legislative regulation is the Law on Hunting in the Republic of Slovenia and its borders, and in this case we can extend this hunting ground. Let me stress that, as far as the adoption of these regulations is concerned, we want to do so in such a way that, in no case, this will have a significant impact on the Kozorog-specific hunting ground, especially as far as jobs are concerned, and we want to do so, as I have already said in the first place, and in seeking that consensus, that the hunting family will acquire the lands it needs to carry out its activities, and that the hunting ground still retains its important status in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you for your affection for the hunting family's request. It is understandable that you will make a positive decision in due course. But it is only right that a few more words are given to this content. The request of the Krvavec hunting family is that the loss of hunting grounds be replaced by the extension of management to the hilly part of the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska and the area of the blood mountains, because the new borders would be determined by natural walls, exceeding, falling apart, which means at the top of the mountains. The justification and justification for the compensation for the lost area of Brnik with its surroundings is based on the fairness, size and nature of the mentioned hill area. The current fact that the hunting house and the shooting site are outside the hunting family management area must also be borne in mind. The proposed amendment removes this and establishes the situation that applies to other hunting families in the Republic of Slovenia when the home is a management area and at the same time the initial situation is established when the blood mountains and the hilly part of the municipality were already in the hunting and management area of the Krvavec hunting family. To date, the exemplary and successful work of members of the Krvavec Hunting family only excuses the need for the decision in question, as this ensures an optimal ecological rounding of the management area. In addition to this, new natural boundaries of the hunting family are being created in the hilly area of the named congregation. All of this will result in an even better implementation of natural wildlife management. On behalf of the Bloodbath Hunting family, I thank you very much for your efforts to settle these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u345	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Let me add that the hunting family has already sent a proposal for amendments in 2019. During this time, as I have already mentioned, we have had many meetings and the efforts of the Krvavec hunting family have been included in these meetings, in this working group, which has prepared some grounds for changes of hunting grounds with special purpose. That is why this initiative is very well known to us, and I personally believe that if we are to make changes to borders, it is necessary to make them on the basis of some natural borders so that we do not create any artificial borders just like that, but on tops, as you have already mentioned. The initiative was also given that the Krvavec hunting family wants to gain part of the area within LPN Kozorog, the hilly part of the municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska and the area of the blood mountains. As I said, it is necessary to check the area that we would like to acquire, and of course to harmonise it with this part where it is lost in this flat part. That's an indisputable fact, and all of us driving past the airport see that, or when we get to the airport with the plane, you can see that. That is why I think their initiative makes sense. But, as it is said, it is necessary to make a method of thinking enough to keep hunting for a particular purpose. But since this hunting ground is relatively large, as I have already said, this lost area, in my opinion, should not be a problem in the event of this substitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u347	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Jože Lenart will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivalšku and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u348	Thank you, Chairman. Good evening, Minister, on my side! You are probably wondering why I insist on one and the same issue or around this topic, but simply because we have both given ourselves a task with your coming to the head of the ministry, that, following the failed seven-year action plan, which expired in 2010, you will approach the new action plan, the strategic plan, as well as you say, and that we will also implement those conclusions that we have made at the emergency meeting on 3 May, in particular from the point of view of the establishment of four wood centres – which was the task of the previous action plan, one fundamental and then not implemented by the previous ministries, and of course also by the MGRT in accordance with its competences, because it is involved in this action plan, that it attracts as many investors as possible and from the Plan of Resistance and Recovery allocates as many resources as possible. This shows that 61 million of these funds are earmarked. Of course, the government then sets out this strategy, where it will invest, what will be built, so that this wood industry will also give its effects in this respect. And, as we said at the outset, this action plan, which is the fundamental question that within one year we set it, is to lay down. Of course, it's not a year yet, but I'm still asking how far we are, where we are, how far we are, to keep the matter in mind, as it was then in seven years. Of course, the basic goal is that these 5 million cubic metres of cut wood — we know that the limit of 6 million or the increase can be even 8 million cubic metres per year — is to consume as much of this wood at home as possible with the added value to get back closer to more successful countries with less forest than Austria. In GDP, this achieves a higher share of the wood-processing industry than in Slovenia, although we are richer. Of course, years go by, we lose in this area. And the action plan should finally set its limits here, but not as political as the first action plan, which was theoretically not bad on paper, but in practice did not bring much. We must admit, however, that those timber companies that are now standing are stronger. But, of course, we need new jobs and to take advantage of the rest further. The fundamental question is: How do you see and where is this action plan now? When will we be able to see or hear it from your side and from your fellow minister at the MGR?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u350	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question and also for your perseverance. We have discussed this issue several times in this temple of democracy, and I am personally happy that the talks in this direction are also taking place in this hall. I also often regret that we are missing the second part of the bearer ministry, the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the MGRT, which is the bearer of the ministry in this case. And yet, if we just look at a little bit of history. In 2011, our ministry really participated in the preparation of the action plan as a bearable, leading ministry, and at that time we also carried out all inter-ministerial coordination, but one of the important objectives of this action plan in 2011 was the establishment of the Directorate for Forestry, which was set up to carry out this forest-forest chain strategy, the wood-processing chain, and also to take over this primate in the development of this entire forest-forest chain, as we are also talking today mainly about the establishment of wood collection and processing centres, which is beyond the reach of our ministry. Since the creation of this Directorate at the Ministry of the Economy, they have also been the Ministry of the Interior, in particular for wood centres, for measures to promote wood centres, for the collection and production of wood. Now let me just have my perspective, the aspect of the agricultural base, what's going on in this part. However, I can also say that progress has been made, even on the basis of the May meeting in this National Assembly, when we have given ourselves one year of time for the amendment of the new Action Plan or the preparation of a new Action Plan. A meeting with all stakeholders took place in December and agreed that by the end of January all stakeholders would send their proposals for the amendment of this Action Plan. Our ministry has already done so and we have prepared a common set of measures with the Forestry Institute, the Institute of Forests and the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, the Department of Forestry and Renewable Energy, where we have prepared a proposal for ten measures that could be recorded in this action plan. As it is said, there is still some time for all stakeholders to send this, and then MGRT will probably continue to prepare this work. Let me add some information at the conclusion that the wood processing sector in the Republic of Slovenia has been growing for some time now, even after profits, especially after jobs and also after the processing of wood in the Republic of Slovenia. For last year, I can already provide information that we have exported less than or exported just over one million cubic pounds of cold, imported about 800 thousand cubic pounds of cold, so we are almost flattened in exports and imports. Indeed, we export or import slightly different forest-forest ranges. We know we have an extraordinary opportunity in the processing of the leaves. Almost two thirds of the leaves in Slovenia end up in energy and could also be elsewhere, in furniture and elsewhere. Here it is prudent to invest in the development of this wood-processing chain, and from this perspective we also believe that it is right to devote resources to give incentives to promote this positive trend in the economic work itself. In conclusion, I may also provide information that SIDG has also prepared a change to the company's strategic business plan by 2029, which, inter alia, provides for the company to start setting up four centres, for which it is expected to allocate EUR 14.7 million. The company has also made a public call for a public-private partnership in November – by tomorrow, it is time to collect offers or proposals for this public-private partnership – and it has allocated a good EUR 7.4 million to this partnership. So already in this call, although it is a non-binding call, but in line with the company's strategic business plan, efforts are already being made to develop these wood centres in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u352	Thank you very much for this comprehensive answer. Dear Minister, why is this strategy and these wooden centers so important? SIDG, the Slovenian National Forest, manages 20 percent of Slovenian forest and somehow covers these needs – almost 100 percent – of domestic buyers, then a small part goes abroad. Of course everything else, but it's private property, and there's a picture that's completely different, and that's where it goes out. With these wood centres and this strategy, we would also encourage all investors to stay at home, and then this wood, of course, would be the right technology equipment as it should be. And that's why it's so important, and that's why I said, the years are running away, we've lost so much, and it's about time for this to happen. Above all, it is important that both of you and MGRT plan together, not each other, because it seems to me that it was in the past that the glass didn't come true. Look, I'm going to show you the January issue of Viharnik magazine. This is a newspaper inside, I'll say sometimes, a forest-forest chain in Koroška, which was a unique one in the world. That's when I introduced her at the session. Here I see, in this number, the first concrete investment that I think comes from this. There I also see the representative of MGRT, including the minister and the representative of the Directorate, that they supported this and we expect, because this has already been made public, the first modern sawmill in Slovenia, which will also give that result or answer, whether such investments are competitive towards Austria and others, that we have gone in the right direction. In this sense, I am interested in: Are you aware of this? In response, they would check whether both ministries cooperate as necessary. I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u354	Thank you very much for complementing the question. Indeed, SIDG has about 20 percent of Slovenian forests, and it remains in private or municipal ownership. There's very little in the congregation. Let me add that SIDG is already in 2021, according to the first data presented by the company, I think that even to the media, 85 per cent of all sales of forest-forest varieties are under long-term contracts, i.e. Slovenian wood-processing plants. The company also checks whether saw sawmills, i.e. forest and forest varieties, have the capacity to process these leased contractual obligations, and thus also ensure that most of the wood is actually consumed on these Slovenian sawmills. With private owners, we still have a lot of reserves, and we know that in Slovenia we cut the largest forest-forest ranges and removed from the forests when we had the biggest catch; that is, from 2014 onwards, especially in 2016, 2017, 2018, when we exceeded 6 million cubic meters and almost reached 6.5 million cubic metres of cut wood from Slovenian forests – all, state and private. During the ordinary years, and also last year, it is as if we have already, thank God, saved the underlings, when we did not have the natural grips, we were back on the old numbers, i.e. 4.5 million cubic metres of cut wood along with private and state forests. Well, and because we are aware that it is for private owners, because state forests are practically cutting everything that is growing up, and for private owners we have a few more opportunities, so in the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy we have written – but now we are talking about what we have already sent to the European Commission – measures to promote integration also in the field of forestry; that is, forest owners too, so that in this part, which is our primary part in the forest and forest chain, we can make it possible for buyers to also get a more stable supplier with related forest owners. And this is the part that we want to address very clearly, because Slovenian National Forests is a very interesting partner because it has a stable constant supply of forest-forest ranges and we want it in private work. As for this work in Viharnik magazine and so on, of course we are aware of these investments, but allow me to leave this issue to my colleague, who will be happy to highlight all the details of this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u356	My procedural proposal comes from, of course, mentioning the lack of wood that has emerged for domestic customers during this period of time also of this covid. It is almost absurd that we can say this; one of the richest countries in Europe, and then at home, there is a shortage of wood. Of course, these are the established sales chains that have further encouraged wood to be exported, as the shortage was also out. For this reason, I suggest that we move even more quickly. Minister Restovalska is not here today, and I also want this ministry to respond in writing on the basis of this debate that we have here today. Above all, I propose the following. See, this one-year deadline for this report to be reported on what this strategic plan or action plan is or will be expired in early May. Now, because the elections are in April, I think it is already some responsibility of this government, isn't it, you who are here today and, of course, Minister Restoring to prepare this report before the end of this government. Whatever. Why? Because it will be a shame again if this report does not end at the right time. What if, then, the new government, the new people, and I asked you first of all about the names of the Commission, how this committee, who is accompanying it, is composed, which will bear this responsibility further; even if the left government, I think any one, must continue this work. [[…]] And then that's the seriousness, isn't it, that this committee is so competent that it's going to move on? That is how it must end, and that is why I really appeal to both ministries, both ministers, to prepare a self-initiative report and to include it literally in – I don't know – it can be an extraordinary meeting, an urgent meeting, but it can be included in the March meeting and then it can be filed. This seems to me to be the responsibility of the government or government departments to make such a move, because otherwise, if the elections get ahead of us, believe me, it will somehow be forgotten. So I really appeal, let's take this seriously, and let's do it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u357	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Defence a question, mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u358	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone, especially the distinguished minister, Mr. Matthew Tonin! In the field of firefighting, we have been waiting a long time for better systemic regulation of the area. In the parliamentary procedure, the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Protection Act are currently being amended. So I'm interested in the following, and I have a few questions: How will the proposed legislative changes affect the regulation of the status of voluntary and professional firefighters? What changes do the legislation on fire protection bring? How are the conditions for the operation of representative organisations in the field of fire protection improved, i.e. for the Association of Professional Firefighters and the Association of Firefighters of Slovenia? Why does the age for voluntary operational fire extinguisher increase to 65 years? Does the retirement age for professional firefighters increase or worsen their current status in any way? What is new about the organisation of operational fire brigades in companies? When and how can we expect fire insurance arrangements? Do they hold the statements of the Slovenian Trade Fire Union that the proposals for legislation were not in line with representative organisations in the field of firefighting? I'm asking nicely for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u359	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u360	Good evening! Dear Member, thank you very much for being very specific, but quite extensive questions. But in the introduction, of course, it is necessary to say that Slovenian firefighters are a key protection and rescue system and that we are practically unable to imagine today without them any serious intervention for any accident, unfortunately what happens to us in Slovenia. It is important, however, that this system is being nurtured all the time because today virtually Slovenian firefighters are becoming key rescuers and those who respond to all kinds of accidents. Compared to other countries, I think we are extremely successful because we are cultivating some combination of volunteering and professionalism. A wide range of voluntary firefighting companies, which are almost professionally trained in different centres to acquire appropriate knowledge. That's what gives us a lot of weight. Therefore, it is not unusual that Slovenia received an invitation this year to host a fire-fighting Olympics that will take place in Celje. Our firefighters were practically heroes in Northern Macedonia, protecting the city of Bereva from destruction and practically leading the entire intervention. Our task as legislators or executives is to adopt system laws that can further improve this status of Slovenian firefighters. You yourself have rightly mentioned that the Government has already adopted the Firefighters Act, which is now waiting for parliamentary treatment and which brings many changes, as well as useful things for both voluntary firefighters and professional firefighters. Let me make it very clear that this law is harmonised and supported in writing by both representative associations, the Fireworks of Slovenia, which represents virtually all voluntary firefighters, and, on the other hand, the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, which brings together Slovenian professional firefighters. Let me quote some of the news the law brings. This is also the case with the implementation of firefighting tasks, since today many volunteers have made their vacation available to these fire guards. Then a firefighter, a veteran firefighter, a fireman, is introduced into the law to make it even more clear what their duties are, what they can and can't do. A reasonable application of the rules is then introduced also for those professional firefighters operating in voluntary firefighting companies. Today we have professional firefighters in, say, public institutions and we have them within voluntary fire companies, where it is only a professional core. Thus, for those in voluntary firefighting companies where they have a professional core, the rules for public institutions apply mutatis mutandis. The names of the candidates for professional firefighters shall also be determined and the conditions for the professional firefighter in charge of the operational work in the unit and the master of the professional fire department shall be defined. The law further provides and allows the employer and imposes upon him the duty to verify that a professional firefighter who has been found to be incapable of carrying out his work can be employed in certain other jobs under changed circumstances. Looks like some kind of concern for professional firefighters. At the same time, the law also implies that we have the legal basis for an interest association of professional firefighters in the form of the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters. In short, they receive a special status, which will also be properly regulated. You're also asking about operative firefighters after the age of 65. Look, this is a number of proposals made by voluntary fire companies, that veterans are only 65 years old, and that they can be operational by 65. In no way does this affect the retirement and other conditions of professional firefighters. It is only the work of voluntary operative firefighters, where there are many fit and want to work as long as possible in their lives. That is why this limit is now set at the age of 65. More, perhaps, next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u362	Yeah, there were a lot of questions, so the rest are still open. In particular, I would like to ask for further information on the organisation of operational fire brigades in companies. Because I heard there was supposed to be a more sane decision here. That's what I'd like to ask. I am pleased that the legislation is in line with all representative organisations. That's what you said. They're key paramedics. Sometimes I joke that girls are for everyone. Because we call them for anything; whether they're saving animals, or any of the smallest traffic accidents, we always need them. We appreciate them, regrettably, or most appreciate them only when they have to intervene. I would still ask for these answers because there were many questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u364	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Yeah, you're right. Our firefighters are worthy of gold, so we need to take care of this system. Much has been done in the past, and we are now taking further important steps in this mandate. One is the Firearms Act we talked about. Another important thing it brings, however, is the Income Act, which is now pending due to the request for a referendum. But the Income Act contains a special fire-fighting general income relief of EUR 1,000 500, which means that a volunteer operating in his organisation would be granted this relief. This means that on average wages you could receive an additional higher net salary for about one modest holiday. We have been careful in these matters that they still insist on volunteering, but at the same time that they are for their victims, because they devote their time to their money, even in some way rewarded. When the Income Act is adopted, firefighters will also be entitled to this general special fire insurance allowance. I wish this was happening as soon as possible. Then another novelty in this mandate is that, for the first time in history, we will also be able to draw on European funds to upgrade our system of protection and rescue. In particular, new training centres are planned to be built. We already have a modern centre in Igu where Slovenian professional and voluntary firefighters are trained and they are such training areas and areas where things are done in real circumstances under fire, if you want, or in buildings and with concrete simulated cases. We want to build additional centres to bring these training closer to the Slovenian firefighters, thus contributing to our well-functioning system based on well-trained firefighters. We will, of course, finance these centres through European funds. With regard to the novelty in the law, which speaks of fire brigades in companies. Today it prescribes the law when firefighting must be organised in the company. With this change, we are now allowing several companies to organise themselves together in a certain area and to make such a joint industrial fire brigade that will be able to intervene in all companies. This will be more rational for businesses, but at the same time more staff will mean that the response will be faster and better. It's a rational approach. And the last thing is that we also prescribe special conditions, who could be the firefighter in these industrial units. That it can't just be someone who does some reception work, but it has to be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u366	Yeah, that's right. The theme is so important and so wide, you've seen for yourself, the minister is running out of time. I would therefore like to ask or propose that, in accordance with Article 249, we hold a broader discussion at the next meeting. I also very much want the Income Act to be passed by firefighters as well as all children, family pension recipients and more. Even when I was a carrier of the Tachographs Act, I stressed that there was a fire-fighting Olympic in Slovenia this year, and if we did not adopt this law at the time, we could have brought children from all countries with vans and ours should not have. We have also accepted this change. We have already gone against the firefighters' initiatives, but I believe that we will also make it easier for a lot of law together and that we will all have a broader debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u367	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Defense of Magi a question. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u368	President, thank you for your word. I am not exaggerating to say that the current government is one of the most anti-working governments we have seen in this country; and we have seen many. Probably no more so than in areas where this government often swears with high patriotic wings, such as a repressive police apparatus, a repressive army apparatus. But the truth of this government's attitude is revealed in their attitude towards the people who keep such systems up to date. In the case of defence, they are firefighters, or what is the subject of my question of mission — soldiers and the military. The defence unions have already opposed the latest amendment to the Defence Act, which is intended to regulate the status of the military after 45 years, but it is not, and instead they have strongly supported the alternative proposal proposed in the form of amendments in Levica. What happened was that the Military, Defence and Protection Union continued to publicly point out irregularities in the military, followed by openly bullying the operation of the union, especially the most visible trade unionists. The Ministry of Defence and General Staff's latest offensive was directed at Bosniak Korelc's vice-president. What's in the details, next. Last February, Boštjan Korelc, a good year before the end of the fixed-term contract, asked for a change to the fixed-term contract. In March, a positive opinion on the conclusion of the employment contract was given by the commander of the regiment, where Korelc is serving, and at the end of March, a minutes of the meeting of the College of Staff of the Chief of Staff of the General Staff, including this decision on permanent employment, were confirmed, and then a half year later, in the minutes of the Staff College of the Chief of Staff of the Staff, a decision was reached on the negative opinion of the Corelca Treaty. Coreltz is supposed to be not responding to a security clearance procedure that has not been notified at all. What is most surprising is that laws and regulations clearly determine when a security review procedure can be initiated and the issue of a fixed-term employment contract is not among them. This verification could, by the way, only be carried out in the event of a suspected security objection, but in such a case, such a suspect should lose a whole lot of privileges in relation to access to information, which has not happened in this case. I therefore raise a very clear question to Minister Tonin: Will you protect the union representatives of the soldiers and their working rights? Will you ensure transparent management of all human resources procedures? Will you prevent further abuses of data protection orders and regulations against members of trade unions, in particular against trade unions in the military?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u370	My answer is yes! Because at the Ministry of Defence and also in the Slovenian Army, we are obliged to act in a legitimate manner and in accordance with all the procedures prescribed. Of course, Commissioner Kordish, according to our old practice, we agree that we do not agree, and even in this case it is not right, so I will present the facts as they are. Lieutenant Boštjan Korelc has a fixed-term employment relationship between 15 February 2012 and 14 February of this year. In March last year, we received a proposal from the Commander of the 157th Logistics Regiment to conclude an indefinite contract for the member concerned. This contract may be concluded under the following conditions: if a battalion commander or a higher unit gives a positive opinion, if a member meets the health requirements and has an annual service assessment in the last three years on average of “good or more”, if the assessment of the mobility check in the last three years on average is “good or more” and if there are no safety concerns. In compliance with all the above criteria, the conditions for amending the status of the contract set out in the time limit are therefore met. The proposal for a member of Lieutenant Boštjan Korelca was submitted for consideration to the College of Staff on 30 March last year, where a decision was taken to conclude the contract of employment for an indefinite period. This was adopted last March. However, security checks carried out by the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence must be carried out prior to the completion of the job, on 15 November the ODS informed the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces that the security verification procedure for the member concerned should be stopped because the applicant did not respond to the interview or excused his absence. In view of the fact that the security check was not carried out, the conclusion was logical and this is that the contract is not concluded for an indefinite period of time. In this regard, I should also add that, of course, the union representative of the WHO has also taken action to ensure that the Intelligence Security Service received a criminal complaint last December, i.e. a complaint by the Union, and since it is an authorised official, the Intelligence Security Service has submitted this complaint to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, namely, the Investigation and Prosecution Department of persons with special powers. Of course, we will now look forward to what a series of such investigations will be like. For now, let me say that according to the information I received from the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the problem is that the member did not carry out a security check. And in accordance with the procedures in force in the Slovenian Army, each employee must also complete this security check. As it is said, he did not apologize or respond in any other way for his unresponsiveness. On the other hand, I would like to point out what the Member initially called into question, that the amendment of the Defence Act is working extremely well and that I thank once again all the Members who have supported this law, because it has brought great peace and stability to the Slovenian Armed Forces, which means that the vast majority of them, due to the lack of personnel, are prolonging the contract if they meet the psychophysical standards of course and if the military needs them, of course, are prolonging these contracts. I think it was a large majority of the extension contracts. Just a few extraordinary cases where there were security concerns. Such a law is certainly working very well and the amendment of this law has achieved what we wanted; this is to allow the capable and willing to continue to operate in the ranks of the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. The only thing that works well in the Slovenian Army is high-ranking human resources corruption, which you, Minister Tonin, still preserve and support. This human resources corruption and clientism were also pointed out by the union, including the unionist Boštjan Korelc, who is now under the pretext of continuous security checks canceling the employment contract or not extending the employment contract to an indefinite contract. That's gross at the end of the day. The unionist Boštjan Korelc, soldier, was not informed of any security clearance. How should he respond to a security check that has not been notified at all? That's the first one. It's the other way around. For the procedure for concluding a fixed-term employment contract, the laws and regulations clearly stipulate that the security check does not begin as part of some automation of this procedure. It's the other way around. Mr Korelc should fill out a whole bunch of questions in advance for this security check, I don't know what else – none of this has happened! It is very clear that it is the conduct of the undercover proceedings against the union in the military, against the soldiers and soldiers represented by these unions and, of course, the loudest union representatives they turn to. Of course, it would be naive to expect you, Minister Tonin, once for a change, to stand on the side of soldiers and soldiers and on the side of workers and workers, without whom all this mass of weapons for which you are throwing money is even more useless than it would have worked. What I want to know again is: Why don't you protect the Korelca unionist from being thrown on the road? Unless for another reason, it is only for so long that a suit at the Ministry of Defence is replaced, that the next government will come, with workers and workers and with soldiers and soldiers, to do much more honestly than you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u374	I must say that the situation in the Slovenian Army itself has been greatly improved, since the decade of poor staffing figures in 2020 and 2021, this has turned up for the first time, so that we have our first years of positive trends. We also have a remarkable response from young people to volunteer military service. If there were 60 of them years ago, we had 600 last year, which is certainly a testimony to the fact that we are doing some things right. In addition to better human resources trends, the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces has also begun, which will finally equip the Slovenian Army as it deserves. With regard to this complication, which, of course, is raised by the Member, let me say again. When someone can get an indefinite contract, it is clearly prescribed: you have to meet the five criteria that I said before, from a positive opinion to the fulfilment of health criteria, safety criteria to an appropriate assessment at work and an official evaluation and with mobility and, of course, you have to carry out a security check. If this were true to what Member Kordish claims, then it would likely be one of the infringements of the procedure. Given that this is going to be checked by the U.S. Attorney General's Office, I don't see any problems here. Which means that if it does, I'm sure it won't, but if it turns out that the Intelligence Security Service has violated some of the prescribed procedures, then, of course, we'll be in the beginning and they'll also have to answer to the Intelligence Security Service for these errors. But because I believe that they have driven things the way they've always driven them, and that it comes from me for unknown reasons for the non-response of an individual, but it has happened, as it has. And any other individual treatment we provide to this individual would violate the rules. We hold to the same rules, but it doesn't matter whether it's a soldier, a deputy or an officer. I think that only with such a principle and with such a way of working can we guarantee some fair relations. Although it is a union confidant, it cannot have certain special privileges or status solely because of the fact that it is a union confidant. It is also subject to the same rules and criteria as all other members. And if you do that, you can have an indefinite contract, or of course not.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u376	Thank you for your word, chairman. One of the more rejected practices of employers, poor employers, whom we are consistently reminding in Levica, is that a man, a unionist who becomes too loud in his warning about irregularities and the right of his fellow workers to just throw him on the road. They do this illegally, and then let a man kill himself with poverty, psychological distress, and prove himself right in court. This practice of the worst employers' industry in Slovenia was brought by Minister Tonin to the Slovenian Army. A trade unionist who clearly and loudly opposed the government's actions and the human resources corruption of high-ranking acts has been disciplined and placed at the front door of the hair under an excuse drawn from the fact that he has not undergone a security check, which he has not been informed of at all. And this is just the last step of the show. When we convened a meeting of the Defence Committee in Levica, at which we pointed out how a member of the New Slovenia – a party of Minister Tonin – wanted to accompany Slovenian Army officers at a course about the size and kindness of the great government of Janez Janša, a union whose vice-president is called Korelc, whom you are now throwing on the road, tried to take away representativeness. You threatened them with cancelling a contract to ensure the conditions for the operation of the union. At the end of last year, you shut down this same union on the Internet of the Ministry of Defence, which we have already asked your Secretary of State in Levica, and then promised explanations and answers – to this day they have not been available! Just as Korelc still does not know why his employment contract is actually being cancelled. Well, in fact, we're all clear. It is clear to the soldiers, it is clear to the union, it is clear to him and it is clear to us in the Levica that we are asking this question today. However, the Ministry of Defence, which carries out such division of mobbing, bullying and firing trade unionists, still gives no compelling official reason. Instead, he pretends to have gone some sort of procedure as he should have gone, but he wasn't there at all. It's about the undercover discipline of a unionist and throwing this unionist on the road. And if the Minister of Defence behaves as the worst sector of the employer in this country – you know, the one who conceals taxes, persecutes workers, bullys them, mobs them, fires them overnight and so on – it is certainly along with the answer of such a minister of the subject that the National Assembly should discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Jožet Podgoršku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u378	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Even though it is a late hour, it seems very important that we say some things about agriculture. I have drawn up a question for the Minister of Agriculture, which I warmly welcome among us, regarding areas with limited factors in the new strategic plan of the common agricultural policy. Above all, I am interested in his view, his vision as a minister, which I must say works well in this government, like all other ministers and ministers, of course including the President of the Government, and are working in many areas very large movements, I can say tectonic movements. Even in the field of agriculture, quite a shift has been made under this government. From the very beginning of the mandate, I have always stressed the importance of hilly mountain farms, small farms, small farmers, at all meetings of the committees or of the National Assembly, because we know that activities are limited in these areas due to various factors. Above all, it is also more expensive equipment for the processing of hill, mountain farms and also very important that we keep rural areas, that young people stay on farms, that they deal with agriculture, that they have some of the development of organic farms. We know that we also need to go to work so that we can earn some money so that we can work this land to keep the farm alive. There's not as much time on the farm as there used to be. I'm very interested in the first hand that the minister will say: How has it been so far, and what will be the outcome? Then, perhaps, I would like to ask a further question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u379	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u380	Thank you very much for the question which is extremely important for Slovenian agriculture, since three quarters of the Republic of Slovenia or farms in the Republic of Slovenia or agricultural land are in areas with limited factors. Of course, these limited factors also vary from less difficult to extremely difficult conditions. On the other hand, in Slovenia we also have one of the lowest average agricultural holdings with good seven hectares per agricultural holding or, if we look at those who play the subsidy role, it is 8.2 hectares. So these issues are on the table and we also had these issues on the table in preparation of a strategic plan for the new programming period. I believe that we have taken some important steps to promote agriculture and maintain agriculture in an area with limited factors to help small farms, to also help with generational reconstruction. I am also pleased and proud that, in fact, I am a minister at a time when we were able to provide for for the first time since Slovenia's entry into the European Union also additional national funds for the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy or for the implementation of the Joint Agricultural Policy measures in the new programming period, and in addition to those which, like the Republic of Slovenia, should have received about €230 million, we have added 310 million more. This means that we can also further support some of these financial means, in particular investment measures and measures for a restricted area. Thanks also to these additional national funds, we will spend 48 million euros per year in the new programming period for limited-factor areas; in this programming period, 42 million and a half per year. In addition, in the new programming period, we will also rewind and redefine the areas with limited factors and determine the points and, on the basis of points without fixed parts ï, we will also change the way payments are made for a limited-factor area to determine more fairer payments per unit of area. Those who work on the most difficult production conditions will get more, those who work on less difficult production conditions will probably get slightly less than they get during this programming period. Thus, some transfers will take place despite additional financial resources. The new payment is a reduction in payments in areas with limited factors on permanent grass when the same farm does not have grass-eating animals; therefore, when there is no difficulty with the EAGF. This I think is a very important decision to expect, in some way or in fact, to help those farms that are also producing something for the market, in the case of permanent grass, not all others, in the case of permanent grass. In the area of small farms we carry out a number of activities to help them. One of the very important is the so-called redistributive effect, when we also had to reduce payments to the largest recipients on the basis of our commitment to the EU and the legal basis, and we earmarked these payments for the first hectares; that is, for the smallest of these Slovenian farms. Small farms will also have a separate financial intervention or have separate financial measures aimed at them alone, and will also be able to raise funds for these financial measures, i.e. for investments that are accessible under substantial ease, simpler conditions and obligations than for all other farms. Let me add that we will also encourage the adaptation of these small farms to animal welfare, to climate change and also allow investment in the modernisation of the agricultural and food processing sectors themselves, when we are talking about complementary activities in small farms. In the context of a generational overhaul, we will allocate more resources to young farmers, who are also covered by agriculture, about 50,000 euros per acquirer. We will also allocate funds with higher support per unit of area, i.e. support for direct payments. We will also allow young farmers a higher share of co-financing of all investment measures, and we will also reward them through a scoreboard to make them more successful when applying. However, let me add that we are also adding a new measure which will focus mainly on carriers; this will also motivate the transfer of the farm to younger generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for these encouraging, optimistic answers. Of course, since this time, many changes have been made, especially in favour of the farmer, for the benefit of the countryside, for the benefit of the Slovenian land, which has been completely forgotten and neglected in previous years or in the previous system. I am really glad that in this common agricultural policy, too, certain things are being prepared, which will all that has been done so far be upgraded, and that there is also a small farmer here, including a hill farm, a mountain farm. I also stress this and repeat it all the time, because the more times you repeat it, the more important it is in the National Assembly, the sooner it comes to me. And I am pleased, Minister, that at the Ministry of this stuff you have fallen and understood people, understood the needs of farmers and went to them, and all these good calls, which are now, with the possibility of reporting, will, of course, be so much more in the future. I also look forward to these more equitable allocations of resources and to rural development, as well as to rural infrastructure. We know that we also care that the internet is already in the countryside, and more will be in place, so that the whole of Slovenia will actually be covered. Young people in rural areas also need this. So it will finally be better to take care of these small farms and the generational reconstruction of rural jobs and rural development. I want to know: What simplifications to reduce administrative burdens are still in sight? Dear Minister, a little more on that. And once again, thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Let me add that we would like, in particular in areas with limited factors, where there are also largely more smaller farms, to introduce this more comprehensive regional approach for the development of agriculture in specific areas: Haloze, Kozianska and so on - I will not mention this, because this is large in Slovenia and for this purpose also for LEADER's actions. So for LEADER projects we also allocate additional financial resources, because these are the measures by which farmers in a particular area can tell which direction they want to go, and then it can be when we know which direction they want to go; whether it is an ecoregion, whether it is hay milk, hay meat, whatever, wine road, fruit road, whatever, just needs to be unified in the local area, then we can also help through individual, group investments. This is also addressed in the strategic plan that we have already sent to the European Commission. Even a farm, a food processing sector, a farmer in this government or those words are certainly heard very often in this government. Thanks to this, I also believe that we have been successful in obtaining new funding for the new programming period. Not only did we look forward, even at this point; in December the beekeepers received paid aid due to the cold, in December the pigs received aid due to the extremely poor situation in the pig sector, and at this point we also have in law when we are talking about aid due to high energy prices, also 25 million for those who need it most, who are also in the worst position due to high energy prices, fertilisers and so on. Some simplifications are also foreseen in the next programming period. Hold it! That is why, at the stage of adoption, the Agricultural Act, which is precisely this debirocratisation, this simplification in investment, in speeding up procedures, in digitisation, i.e. in the introduction of all the different applications, brings. So this law is needed in order to remove these bureaucratic obstacles. My position is also in this part that we must very well rewind the way in which applications for individual financial measures are made and really demand only what is absolutely necessary from the point of view of accreditation, in terms of compliance with the legislation, while we leave all the rest of the ballast behind because we really do not need it. In this part, I intend to take quite a few steps in this direction to simplify the overall common agricultural policy, the role of obtaining funds, including the change in the tenders themselves, will probably follow this, the way of calls. In short, what we have here is an idea, but this is still in the implementation phase, so at this point I do not have all the answers and solutions on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Anžet Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u386	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Nice greeting, Minister! I will touch on the sensitive and current issue of the crisis at the Ukrainian-Russian border, which, before the day, more precisely last Tuesday, reflected the words of the Croatian President, who, in relation to the crisis in Ukraine, assessed that there are ways for Ukraine to be preserved as a whole country? or 99% of it? and that it is economically assisted, but it does not belong to NATO. He also spoke about Croatia's response to the possible exacerbation of the Ukrainian-Russian crisis, stating: "I know nothing about this, but I am the military's commander in chief. I look at the messages and I look at them, and then it increases the presence in the area. We don't, and we're not gonna have anything to do with it. I guarantee this, not only will we not send any soldiers, but we will also withdraw all Croatian soldiers to the last and this is not related to Ukraine or Russia.” End of story. According to him, the current crisis is linked to the dynamics of the American internal policy of Joe Bidn and his administration. The fact is that if this war were to happen, we would also be involved, as Slovenia is a member of the NATO Pact. And it appears that the Government intends to continue with the policy of involvement in the conflict, at least so, it is possible to judge by the reply of the State Secretary of your Ministry to the Foreign Policy Committee a few days ago on my question of the positioning of Slovenia in aggravating the situation in Ukraine when it stated that we will fulfil all our obligations under NATO. In Levica, we now call this unacceptable and support a similar policy as proposed by the Croatian President of the Republic of Milanović. Slovenia should withdraw from missions to the Russian neighbourhood and maintain neutrality and not interfere with the conflict between Russia and the United States. There is no legitimate reason to be involved in such a dangerous war, which can also result in the loss of many innocent lives or the threat of world peace in its entirety. That's why I'm asking: What is the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia regarding our positioning in the light of this crisis? Is not this crisis a moment when Slovenia should adopt a similar position as was taken by the Croatian President? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u387	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Perhaps with regard to the issue of the Member that Slovenia should maintain neutrality with regard to the exacerbation of the situation on the Russian side at the eastern border of Ukraine. As you know, Slovenia's accession to NATO supported more than 60 per cent of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the referendum, is one of two key foreign policy orientations supported by public agreement; in short, verified at the referendum. And it is Slovenia's duty as active members of NATO to cooperate and to bear the burdens of the community; that is, the obligations arising from the basic contract and arising from the decisions taken by this association. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we are very concerned about the tension in the East and the further strengthening of the Russian military forces. In accordance with these international obligations, we pledge to respect international law and also internationally recognised borders, and we reiterate and make clear every time that the territorial integrity of Ukraine must be defended by all means within the limits laid down by international treaties. The violation of these principles by the Russian Federation threatens peace and stability on our continent, in fact in the immediate neighbourhood, and we regularly call on Russia in its contacts to refrain from increasing tensions, to ensure full transparency over activities and to return to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. In this context, we welcome all the efforts made to revive the norm, including the last initiatives, when the four representatives of the countries of the norm format met again for the first time in a long time and announced the continuation of the debate within a good week. In this direction, we support all efforts towards a diplomatic solution, both bilaterally and in multilateral forums. As you know, Slovenia is an ally or committed to a policy of peace and in this respect also represents positions at all levels bilaterally and also multilaterally. At the level of the European Union, we also advocate this position in the compositions of the worlds, where we are addressing this issue, while at the same time supporting the European Union's policy in this regard. I think it is also important that we are committed to our strategic orientations in this policy. Because it would be quite embarrassing for Slovenia to continue its policy, as led by former Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec, especially in these acute situations, when the unity of the European Union and the common position on relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation is one of the key factors in dissuading the Russian Federation from any possible reflection on the onset or specific crossing of the border of Ukraine. In this respect, Slovenia will continue to represent this policy in all forums. At the same time, as you know, we support Ukraine in the implementation of reforms with a view to strengthening its internal resilience and also its convergence with the European Union. At the edge of the Eastern Partnership Summit, Prime Minister Janša signed a bilateral declaration of support for Ukraine's European perspective. At the end of 2020, Slovenia also supported police officers in the European operation in Ukraine. In this way, we will continue to contribute to further steps to ensure security and stability and to Ukraine's European future.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u390	Thank you very much. I agree that a diplomatic solution is the only right one and that this is the right way. Of course, the situation is extremely complex, not nearly uniform. And we also know that there is a great deal of discomfort in the European Union right now and not such a strong resolve on everyone to go to the end if there is an escalation. After all, we know why the Cuban crisis occurred in the 1960s when the world was just before the atomic conflict and, in fact, before the third world war: because then the Americans installed their rocket systems in both Turkey and Italy. And Moscow's response, which seemed too close to those missiles, was, of course, Cuba, the installation of their missiles in Cuba. And we know how close we were to a moment that could destroy civilization. Now the efforts to get Ukraine to NATO are exactly the same or the same provocation. Indeed, nuclear missile systems at the border with Russia are what Russia will of course not agree to, cannot land. And in that there's probably a heart, one of them would be to sharpen it and this tension. That's why I want to know: Are you still assessing that it is right and right that Slovenia, within the framework of NATO, for example, if there was an extreme escalation, would be actively involved in this conflict, which would actually endanger the existence of our civilization if we were absolutely accurate?
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u391	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u392	Thank you. Look, I'm a little surprised at the implementation, where the MP said that the effort to make Ukraine go to NATO is a provocation. Now the provocation is this statement. I'll take that statement, but given the provocation, I won't react. But, as you know, the NATO connection, where we entered by, I would say, the majority support of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is also talking about the fundamental principle that each country itself decides on the form of security it will provide. In short, this freedom is left to each country individually. And that no one can say that the state's decision is for this or another option; that is to say, to join the NATO connection, that it exists as a neutral state, that it connects globally with another bloc, that it is a provocation. This is a sovereign decision of each country individually and such a decision must also be respected. In this respect, NATO does not in any way agree with any condition that future enlargements should be decided on the basis of the opinion of the Russian Federation. It is not the Russian Federation that sets the conditions, but every country, as I have mentioned, is the sovereign who decides which way to go. And as for the countries that are gathered in relation to NATO, or the countries that are in the European Union, the countries that belong to the West, I think the focus story is very one-off. And that is why, unlike in 2014, in this Western work, in a work that is based on a democratic platform, on the rule of law and on the awareness of common cohesion in this world, on common values, this unity in this crisis is guaranteed and spoken by all countries with the same voice and that they all see this as a great threat to world peace. Among other things, a meeting of the United Nations Security Council is convened to discuss this in the main multilateral forum due to these security threats. And in this respect, as I said, Slovenia will continue to fully support policy: firstly, free choice, secondly, the policy of defending this free choice in the European Union and also in relation to NATO.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u394	Yes, I do. Of course, I suggest that we take a little more time in the National Assembly, because this question cannot really go into this depth of this complex matter. To talk about the increasingly dangerous situation at the border between Russia and Ukraine, because, after all, Slovenia as a member of NATO is potentially involved in this dangerous event. Indeed, there is growing concern about the possibility of an outbreak of war in the world, and the biggest real reason for this crisis is rarely mentioned. Of course, not everything is black and white, I agree, and Russia in Ukraine is pursuing its geopolitical interests, but also under the leadership of the United States is the one who has been getting closer to the Russian border for years and testing with this patience of Russia, which is feeling threatened. I guess we can understand that. Ukraine under NATO's control is an unacceptable threat to Russia's national security, which I tried to explain earlier in the case of the Cuban crisis. And obviously, we haven't learned much from this Cuban crisis, so I said that if we look at Russia, it's probably provocative. Otherwise, I don't mind states making their own decisions, but they also play with fire. In addition to the geopolitical conflict, we can also worry about something else, namely the rise of neo-Naziism and the rehabilitation of collaborators with a Nazi in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the military training of neo-Nazi groups is directly supported by the United States, it has been proven. Like, for example, they sponsored various terrorist groups in the Middle East to fight America against unloved governments, but now they want to integrate them into these activities somehow. In short, I'll cut it short. In Levika we condemn the sponsorship of Nazism and fascism in Ukraine or anywhere and express concern about attempts to rehabilitate these criminal ideologies. We are concerned about this increase in tension in Ukraine and, of course, we fully support the Ukrainians' right to their own independent country. But it is important to stress once again that in the current situation independence can only be achieved through a policy of neutrality, not with Nate, because we see where this is going. The Russians probably won't kneel at their own border like that. This is all serious, complicated, worrying, and not nearly uniform. As we say, geopolitical interests are on one side and the other. It takes a position to protect the entire planet, after all, because what's going on is frightening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u395	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. Like the last reported mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone, in front of the small screens! Dear Minister, my question concerns the appointment of the Research Agency's task force, you have answered this question several times today. I will focus more on the process itself, I will not focus on who is more suitable or not. The fact is that the Management Board has proposed and confirmed the candidate and, in some normal circumstances, the Government would have made this decision known and verified by the Management Board. The government disagreed with the decision of the Management Board by law and rejected the candidate twice and then began to exchange the board with the members, who would either confirm or appoint a candidate, a candidate who is only after the taste of the government. This was responded to by trade unions, all the leaders of Slovenian public universities responded. Of course, I'm curious: Why is this done in this way? Does this not also mean attacking the independence of these institutions? Of course, I am afraid that such appointment or such recruitment will also result in the establishment of various research institutions, following the example of universities that are now growing up in each village and in such an uncritical way. Of course, this means the deterioration of public education, public universities. Instead of bringing universities together, the aim of bringing together universities to ensure the uniform state habilitation of higher education teachers in the Slovenian higher education area is to even decompose this space in a political sense. I don't think this trip is good, so I'm interested in seeing you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u398	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Ambassador Reich! I am grateful for this question, so that I can explain some of the other circumstances that have fuelled the whole process and further show how we have actually followed all legal legalitys, at the end of the already existing new Law on Scientific Research, which you have also confirmed in the National Assembly. With regard to the process, the former President or Director of the ARRS informed the Management Board on 1 December last year that it would resign as of 30 January this year due to, as is already known, health problems. First, let's say a rather surprising move by the board of directors, it was not until 13 January that it met with the aim of proposing to the Government to approve the new Director or Director for the duration of the call itself, then for the new Director or Director. At that time, she was a proposed candidate, for whom the Government found that it did not meet those three basic criteria which, on the basis of the Government's legal obligations defined in Article 7 of this Law, must, of course, be linked to excellent governance, excellent scientific research and international involvement. She therefore informed the Management Board that she could not agree with the proposed proposal for these reasons and had him re-propose a new candidate who would meet these three criteria. That's what it's like to be 24. The 1st Management Board met again and proposed the same candidate or candidate, and in this sense, of course, it has somehow created some fundamental doubts about the understanding of the powers of the members of the Management Board as required by the law. That's all, isn't it, that I might light up a little bit? The Law on Public Agencies — What Is the Purpose of This Law? The public agency is established by the Republic of Slovenia in order to exercise the rights and obligations of the founder on behalf of the State, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, it, namely the Republic of Slovenia, is the founder of this public agency and at the same time the one who appoints members of the Management Board and also discharges them as the founder, and then we have in the following Article 48, which is also very clearly written in the powers of the Management Board. In particular, two points relate to the situation you are asking. The Management Board shall be the Managing Authority and shall have the authority to carry out a public tender for the appointment of the Director. The 10th point provides that the Government shall propose the appointment or discharge of the Director and, of course, be confirmed by the Government itself. Where it turns out that members of the Management Board do not actually carry out their basic tasks in the manner expected from them, the Government shall also have the legal basis, of course, for appointing and dismissing members of the Administrative Board, and paragraphs 14 and 18 of the Decision establishing the ARRS shall be those in relation to Article 95 of that Law. In particular, another article is important, namely Article 7, paragraph 6, which states that members of the Management Board must carry out their tasks with due diligence by a good economic operator and that they are also liable for violations of due diligence in accordance with the general principles of bond law. That's what we wanted to avoid, and that's why we did it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u399	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u400	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You have given quite a few points that raise questions, I will not focus on the articles in my debate, but I will try to explain this in one normal, understandable way. Look, it's clear that every founder has the right of establishment and that he can also appoint people to the board of directors and call them off if he doesn't trust them. You yourself have pointed out that it would be logical to call them off if these members were unfaithful. Your answer or explanation did not indicate that these members of the committee would be ignorant of their actions or actions, but they did not propose and support the candidate that the government had in mind. That's a summary of what you said. This was also answered by universities; University of Maribor and University of Ljubljana, University of Primorska. They called for these things to be done, resolved, or changed in another, more appropriate way. I see here, in fact, that it is a matter of recruiting according to the will of politics, I will say, it is also for people who are clearly coming out of one circle of friendship, science and cooperation. [[…]] I don't think that's the way it is. We've seen where these things lead and lead. We have seen that some new universities have been established by voting in the National Assembly, and private ones have been financed. Such a journey is not good, and it is financed in such a way that it is not quite clear where the deficit is in the public [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u402	Thank you very much. I assure Ambassador Reich and everyone else that in the event of the operation of our departmental ministry, there are never any names in advance. However, in this particular case, it certainly has three fundamental criteria that reflect the highest and best possible scientific research excellence and the implementation of such a policy. This is indeed a fundamental responsibility and a fundamental task of the Government, as stated in Article 7. In doing so, we are assisted by a board of directors. If we do not find a common language somehow, of course it is reasonable and understandable that we, as the first and responsible body, must respond accordingly. And that, unfortunately, is what we did. Unfortunately in this sense, because we were obviously not understanding enough what kind of candidate we were looking for. Why are we looking for such a candidate? In addition to the law, in addition to the research strategy you will adopt, we are told by the foreign side. The world's most recent knowledge index from the previous week, which was published, puts us as a country in the field of education and science, research places us on a fantastically high 22nd of nearly 160 cities. However, it is in the field of research that this index and this city are the worst rated. One of the worst assessments in this field is precisely research institutional support and excellence. And we all know together – I also know that you know because you come from circles with a scientific title that the Agency for Research is actually working, unfortunately not optimal enough and not excellent enough, for you to be able to represent that best institutional support in this sense of your mission. This is now our fundamental responsibility, and I believe that the new leadership will follow it accordingly. I wish him well, and at the same time at this point I call on the Management Board to call for a full-time director or director of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for research activity as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u403	Thank you, too. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u404	Thank you very much. You have made my procedural proposal and, of course, I agree with it. I propose that we hold this very important debate at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-01-31-SDZ8-Redna-29.ana.u405	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 2 February 2022, in the framework of the votes. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. With this, I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 2. 2. 2022, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 31.) On the basis of the information provided by the Commission in
