ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Jurša, Karmen Furman, Nada Brinovšek, Lidija Ivanuša, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Nik Prebil, Leon Merjasec, Andrej Chernigoj, Alexander Reberšek, Mihael Prevc, mag. Dejan Židan from 16:00 on, Jura Ferjan, Franci Kepa, Just Bevk from 16:00 on, Matjaž Han from 16:00 on, Matjaž Nemec from 16:00 on, mag. Meira Hot from 16:00 on, Jani Prednik from 16:00 on, equal Predrag Baković, Soniboj Knezak, Dr. Franz Duck, Turtle Brick, mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Marko Koprivc, Gregor Židan and himself from 17:00 onward, Eva Irgl, Tomaž Lisec, Elena Zavadlav Ušaj, Franc Rosec, Brane Golubović, Jože Lenart and Igor Peček. It would be best if you let me know who's coming next time. [[Laughing in the hall]] That's why I welcome everyone here so much more! We're moving on to 25. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law to prohibit the publication of public surveys on support for politics and political parties. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of three Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to the proposal for a law, the 11 Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Victory Jelinčič Trimenite.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u2	Well, hello, all of you! For this law they began to collect signatures for migrant workers, and the Slovenian National Party took over everything, drafted the law and submitted it for consideration. The fact is that public surveys in Slovenia are not the ones that measure the pulse among people, but they create popular opinion according to the task of certain centres of power, uncles from the background, and above all left political options, which still have the most influence on the media or has most media in their hands. Then we come up with all sorts of strange things when some media outlets, or surveyors, admit that they do it for money. Let me tell you what happened. Recently, there was a woman's company at the table, where the secretary of a particular political group also participated, and on the other hand she owned a high and important media house. And when this lady from the political party asked: “Would it not be possible for me to have more on media?” The other lady said, "Yes, that depends on it or on it. [[shows with gesture]] or of which [[shows with gesture]] .” In short, money either directly or under the table. This is what creates discomfort among people, a sense of suspense. Because the fact is, the results do not show the actual situation. They lie, they set up, and when they finally sit down with their owners, the boss says, "Yes, take this one, take this one, and put it up there." And that's how it happens all the time. Therefore, it is also suggested that public opinion research should not be published about six months before the elections. In this way we would avoid this fraudulent practice, which is the practice in Slovenia, it seems. In Austria, someone was imprisoned or punished for this, of course not by us. Of course they won't if it's all from the same logo. There's another thing that we've got going on here, and that's something that our good human opinion surveyors don't know. It's a so-called confidence interval. This confidence interval is about plus, minus 2.2%, and also up to plus, minus 5.2%. This means that if one is shown a 1% Slovenian survey, it can have 6.2%. And that's what they want to avoid. They work according to some methods that are long overdue, which do not show the reality. But of course in these meters it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what the actual situation is and what the actual result is, but it's the result that they either want to show or because they've got certain financial resources for it, as it was said, or so on. [[shows with gesture]] or so [[shows with gesture]] and what kind of command they got from their centres, from those people who decide everything together and who want to bring the Slovenian political environment to where they want it. That's what it means to be where it used to be and what we're supposed to be getting out of. However, it appears that we have not yet done so and that some are still doing so with great joy and with tremendous financial gains. I think that these elections, however, will be carried out differently than some expect people to overlook this debate today, to see that they are lying to them, presenting them with complex results that do not have a basis. Because people have been saying after the inn: "Well, that's not true. This is nowhere, but there is one, for which I do not even know what it is written, which party it is, but it has such high percentages." It's just the operation, the subversive action of some. In order to prevent this from happening, we have introduced this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. The position will be presented by Dušan Šiško.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u4	Have a good day to all present! In Slovenia, a number of agencies measure public opinion. We hear the most about Mediano, Ninamedio and Parsifal. Several online media are conducting their own survey, and there are also several applications for this purpose. If I am not mistaken, the 2022 Election website checks even the information officer. There are many providers, as well as room for manipulation and creation of results. More than 120% of all research results have happened several times. If people fully trusted these polls 10 years ago, this mistrust was already very much launched in 2018. In the polls, 90 percent of the people believed that they were weak. The analysis carried out in 2020 showed that 86% of people trust the survey. It would be interesting to obtain information on what this trust is like today. The only metrology survey is elections, and public research has long not measured people's opinions, but creates their opinions. Thus, in 2011 they created a myth about Zoran Jankovic and even predicted that we would have only four parties in Parliament, at the end of which there were seven. Remember in 2014, when the polls settled Mira Cerar? At that time, only five parties were supposed to pass the parliamentary threshold and there were seven. A similar story was then repeated in 2018 with the List of Marjan Šarca. Very interesting information, Slovenian national parties did not even notice the month before the poll elections in 2018, even though they had announced entry into parliament. So here we are. Many times it has happened that, in conducting surveys, the Slovenian National Party has not listed us as an opportunity for polled voters to choose us and give us a vote. Who else can believe such surveys? But it is also true that people on the street say that polls and media are made up of the National Assembly. So much for the regularity of these polls. In view of the fact that it is now showing us from 1.7 to almost 6%, we can at least expect to enter the National Assembly peacefully. And the real poll will be on April 24th, the day of the election, or May 3rd, when all the votes will be counted. I think we all agree that opinion polls serve only the new faces and agencies they produce, but they definitely do a lot of damage on the political floor and consequently on the Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, good day to all! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we had to first resolve the dilemma of whether to comment on this and such a bill. The proposal is so rude that it is practically pointless to talk about its contents. However, a few words may have to be said about the background of such a proposal. This is not the first attempt by a coalition led by this party — even if it is formally invested in the SNS Group — to limit people’s access to real and independent information before the elections. At the proposal of the first Janša government before the elections to the National Assembly in 2008, the National Assembly adopted a law prohibiting the publication of polls one week before the elections. The Constitutional Court has found, for the last prohibition, that it is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has repealed the law, but only the government of Alenka Bratušek has apparently abolished the anti-constitutional situation. From then on, the publication of public opinion surveys and surveys on candidates, candidate lists, political parties and the referendum question shall be allowed up to 24 hours before the day of the vote and shall be prohibited until the voter is closed on the day of the vote. The Constitutional Court has considered the prohibition of the publication of certain information in order to prevent the media from having an impact on the design or modification of public opinion as disproportionate interference with the very essence of the role and the importance of the media in our democratic society. Especially before the elections, when it comes to direct expression of the political will of the electorate, the free functioning of the media is all the more important. The free and democratic elections assume that the electorate is allowed to be informed of all important issues, since only a universally informed voter can express his true political will on the day of the vote. Information on the state or dynamics of public opinion is so important to the electorate, even crucial. It is therefore important that this issue, which may have a decisive impact on the finalisation of the will of the electorate, ceases the flow of information as soon as possible. The purpose of this anti-constitutional proposal is therefore very clear and can be placed in a package of brutal interference with media freedom, including human tsunamis and censorship of all content that does not fit this coalition, in all media in which the state has an influence. We see what happened first on Planet TV, then on STA, and now with a lot of noodles, he wants to turn public television into a customer trumpet. The reason for doing so is probably at least half of us in Parliament are clear – it is fear. Fear of defeat, which they will experience in a good month. This proposal clearly shows that they are willing to beat all the rules, laws and constitution to ease this defeat, but the time is running out. Even such acts of despair will not help them. After all other analyses of the results, the polls are also likely to find that they will no longer be able to form a coalition similar to the current one in the next term. But Slovenian voters and voters cannot be fooled by some banal tools and suggestions, as we have seen in today's debate. In this assembly, everything that is happening in Slovenia has been observed for two years and in a good month they will show by their decision what Slovenia wants and what Slovenia wants to live in. I am convinced and I wish that this will not be Slovenia's fear, limiting the constitutional rights of people, subjugating public media and independent institutions, as this coalition creates. These decisions of the electorate and the electorate are fear and so is the case. Of course, the Group of Non-Related Members of the Law proposal strongly opposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In my previous views, I have heard arguments that show that an individual parliamentary group does not understand or know who has tabled the bill. The bill was tabled by the opposition party and remains so. It is true, however, that the basic purpose of the proposal for a law prohibiting the publication of public research on policy support and political parties is in the right direction, as it raises the issue of manipulation and abuse when it comes to public policy polls and political fears. Without reservation, I can say that in the field of public research, we have agencies that guide and measure public opinion – this is where the rabbit is concerned. This is also demonstrated by the large deviations of the measured results from the actual results of the elections. I'll only remind you of one example. Remember when Director Mediana spoke before the elections about Marjan Sarec being in Slovenian politics, which is Luka Dončić in basketball. This is a bombastic, measured result once lower than the first-ranked Slovenian Democratic Party. For this reason, the State is primarily obliged in the field of public media to ensure that the information provided is not unilateral and monopolised. The RTV Act is clear and provides, inter alia, that the principle of reality, impartiality, integrity of information and political balance must be respected in the case of RTV. The proposed law so informs us that the media landscape should at least be independent and impartial for the public media. These contents certainly include published public research. According to the proposaler, free and smooth design and expression of political will in the elections are currently not possible, as it is almost possible to publish political public opinion polls, which are often distorted until the elections. It is also true that samples of respondents are relatively small, usually around 700. It is also the case that surveys can be misleading from the point of view that some respondents refrain from answering questions. However, these so-called non-response results may substantially change the real picture. They can make a substantial change. Regardless of how polling results are obtained, they have an impact on voter decisions, on their subconscious. Above all, this is where the voter points out the voters who are still undecided. Respectable, the aim of the bill is to provide the electorate with conditions in which they can freely shape and express their true will in elections. Voters must have this opportunity without manipulation. For all of this, we will support the law in the first reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the LMŠ, we do not agree to a pre-election policy that is used by some of the current parliamentary parties or parliamentary parliamentary groups, when, say, just before the elections, they are proposing laws as in the current tape just to draw attention or to alert our electorates and voters to their existence. This is also the case today in this proposal for a law tabled by the applicant. The position of the LMŠ Group towards the law proposed by the SNS is very clear and based on simple facts. We do not support the bill because it is kind of misleading and based on completely wrong professional grounds. It is not too much to point out that the Constitutional Court has already identified, in the light of a similar issue concerning the prohibition, public opinion surveys on the support of political parties in the past have been published. The Constitutional Court ruled that the prohibition of the publication of such surveys seven days before the elections was unconstitutional, and even ordered the National Assembly to abolish such unconstitutionality. So again. The Constitutional Court ruled on the non-constitutionality of the previous regime under which the publication of surveys and opinions was prohibited seven days before the day of the vote, but today the bill-maker wants to extend this prohibition to a period even six months before the elections. We can only rhetorically ask ourselves what the Constitutional Court would decide if the constitutionality of such a bill, which extends the prohibition to six months before the elections. On the basis of such clear views of constitutional judges in the past, we can conclude that more than half a year's ban on publishing would constitute an excessive interference with the freedom of the media, the right of voters to information and also the right to free economic initiative. The bill has other shortcomings, both formal and substantive. For example, in the case of early elections, which are not so rare in us, it is not even feasible. Although the law is inconclusive, in the LMŠ Group we have seriously assessed that it is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have before us a proposal, a general debate on a law whose aim is to prevent abuse and manipulation of the results of public opinion. Fair elections or a vote expressing the true will of people can only be discussed if the public is also informed in all-round and comprehensively in these processes. The proposal states that this law lays down rules for the protection of the democratic formation of the political will of citizens and citizens. A ban on the publication of public opinion research on policy support and political parties would allow, in the opinion of the proposer, a permanent and effective right to freely formulate and express its opinion in the elections. At the same time, by prohibiting the publication of the results of political opinion polls six months before any regular or extraordinary elections, the continued manipulation of voters by legal and natural persons would be prevented. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Even if, or today, it would be decided that the bill is suitable for further consideration, the legislative procedure will not be completed. The debate on the draft law will continue at the urgent meeting of the home working body and at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. And when is that? During the election campaign. As this is an unrealistic proposal, a political abuse and an open electoral campaign by the bill-maker, the Social Democrats of the proposal conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will not support it. If the proposal had been taken seriously by the applicant, it would have been put into the legislative procedure already a year ago. Allow me to quote their proposal under Article 3 of the Law: "This law completely prohibits any publication of the results of public opinion polls on the popularity of politicians and political parties and on the choice of candidates in elections and the publication of the announced outcome of elections in the media six months before all regular or extraordinary elections." Finally, the Social Democrats here would like to recall that four years ago, just before the June 2018 elections, the then President of the National Assembly set a deadline for the proponents of the same law to collect 5,000 signatures of the electorate and electorate. We note from this that the desire to regulate the publication of the results of public opinion polls on the popularity of politicians and political parties always arises just before the elections. We believe that the proposal for a law is more about ensuring the right of citizens and citizens of Slovenia to freely form and express their views in the elections, and has been put into the legislative process for their own promotion. However, if the proposer thought seriously and not manipulatively – and I believe that the applicants are also aware that the draft law will not apply to the election on 24 April 2022 – this bill could be adopted without the requirement for general discussion, with the commercial possibility of calling the meetings of the National Assembly, which, of course, this wider coalition has now been adopted. As has already been said, the Social Democrats will vote against the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration. However, in doing so, we do not exclude the possibility that a broader public debate will take place as soon as possible after the establishment of the new Assembly and the formation of a new government on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! At a time when we are witnessing the kidnapping of the state and all its key institutions by the political right, its parliamentary SNS satellite wants to ban the publication of public opinion polls. The law before us is the only solution – a complete ban on the publication of any results of public opinion research on the popularity of politicians and political parties, on the choice of candidates in elections, and on the publication of the announcement of the outcome of elections at least half a year before the elections. The applicants consider the above-mentioned results to be fake nuse. Moreover, public research is intended to have an excessive impact on the right to freely and undisturbed design and expression of political will, thus violating the fundamental principle of democracy. Here, of course, it is necessary to ask how that the applicants are concerned only about the impact of public opinion research on the electorate and the electorate. How do you not worry about the fact that the political botra has proposed bans, the SDS party, self-promotional billboards spread all over Slovenia? Not only at the time of the election campaign, which has not yet officially started, we cannot move the entire mandate 10 kilometres away without being irradiated by calls for hatred, by the lies and manipulations that are the most common political tools of the right, in particular the SDS. About the impact on voters and voters of a media octopus owned and directly influenced by SDS, how financial resources received by SDS from abroad affect the electorate and electorate. Elections will bring the necessary changes and withdrawal of the right. That's a fact. And if you don't want to accept the truth, the best self-defense mechanism is denial. Like the entire right in one voice, the SDS began to subjugate all key institutions in the country immediately after the term of office. According to political purges in the police and other law enforcement agencies, intelligence services, key state companies and infrastructure, the STA victims became the last hostage, Radiotelevision Slovenia. From day to day Janšev's lakaji take over the most important positions in Slovenian media. Janša's most loyal fellows are already robbing public space of plurality and slowly transforming it into a space for the exclusive and completely shameless political propaganda of the right. The propaganda machine SDS has already eaten Tarcho, Tednik, Studio City and so on. All too loyal, but independent journalists are already emptying their offices. It is quite clear that the proposal of the SNS to prohibit the publication of public opinion research is a political gift to John Janša or even a payment of any debt. It is not a public opinion that favours a policy that beats democratic standards that tramples on human rights, gives capital an obvious advantage over workers, fosters hatred and even a severe war that devotes billions of euros to purchase unnecessary military equipment and tax exemptions to the richest, while speedily privatises public health and poor together. The political authorities, which have every opportunity, opportunity and even tragedy to use for political self-promotion and self-glorification, which export European values, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the protection of fundamental human rights, and the putinism of a pair of excellencies at home. Areas whose key weapons are the argument of power, personal discredit and revenge. All of this is also reflected in public opinion research. The public is becoming more and more clear about how highly distorted Janez Janša's policy is. People can see how the dark future awaits us if the government once again takes over the SDS. On the other hand, the right hand of the solution does not, of course, see it abandoning harmful policies. Absolutely not. The solution is to prevent the publication of harmful results of public research. In Levi, of course, we will not support the ban. This is just the first step towards trying to finally capitulate democracy. The latter is most likely in banning the publication of any election results, at least until the result is exactly what the SDS wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law prohibiting the publication of public opinion research on policy support and political parties was forwarded to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party in the legislative procedure. This law would completely prohibit any publication of the results of public opinion surveys on the popularity of politicians and political parties and on the choice of elections and the publication of the election announcements six months before all regular and extraordinary elections. They are convinced that it is a question of false news, so they believe that the bill prevents abuses and manipulation of the results of public opinion. The publication of polls in the pre-election period has a double role for the electorate. On the one hand, it is an informational role, since a group of individuals who are not fully indifferent to the functioning of the political system are as interesting as information itself, as is information concerning everyday life. However, they shall also have an instrumental role that is relevant for individuals in the event that the publication of research results is used during the pre-election period in their work or in their conduct and decision-making. Polls are an indicator of the current mood in society, and they certainly have an impact on how people end up deciding. However, the key question is whether there is an opinion already before the first publication in a company registered by the polls or whether respondents have imposed it on respondents. The current provisions of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act in Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Act provide that the publication of public opinion surveys and surveys on candidates, candidate lists, political parties and referendum issues shall not be allowed 24 hours before the day of the vote and until the voter is closed on the day of the vote, and publication shall be permitted at any time before that date and again after the vote is closed. But it always wasn't like that. In 2011, the Constitutional Court unconstitutionally recognised the regime which prohibited the publication of the results seven days before the date of the vote. The seven-day ban on the publication of research is, in the view of the Constitutional Judges, a time-consuming limitation that excessively interferes with the freedom of the media. This decision was adopted by the Constitutional Court in 2011 with six votes in favour and one against. The President of the Constitutional Court was then Dr Ernest Petrič. The Constitutional Court, in explanation of its decision, wrote: “The campaign of love begins within the law 30 days before the day of the vote. Thus, a seven-day ban means that the media cannot carry out their public information functions by publishing public opinion polls for almost a quarter of the time of the official campaign.” “Prohibition of the publication of certain information in order to prevent the media from having an impact on the design or adoption of public opinion means intervention in the very essence of the role and importance of the media in a democratic society”, the decision explains. As reported, the media inevitably influence public opinion by informing the public. That is why, especially before the elections, when it comes to direct expression of the political will of the electorate, the free functioning of the media is all the more important. They also wrote: “With the free operation of the media, the right of voters to information is also in hand. The prohibition of the publication of public opinion surveys can therefore also be assessed from the perspective of the individual electorate, who can therefore be deprived of essential information. The free and democratic elections assume that the electorate is allowed to be informed of all important issues with different, comprehensive and also plural information, as only with comprehensive information can the electorate express his true political will on the day of the vote. Information on the state or dynamics of public opinion may be important, even crucial, for the electorate. It is therefore important that this issue, which may have a decisive impact on the final formation of the will of the electorate, ceases the flow of information as soon as possible." If the Constitutional Judges have consistently recognized the ban on publishing a week before the elections, in our view, there is an even more unconstitutional regime that would prohibit the publication of a survey six months before the elections. But we understand the purpose of the proposalr. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The text shall first be given by the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Some nonsense has been said, and I will only respond to some. The SD representative said the law was a pre-election campaign. It's not a pre-election campaign, the law has a desire to settle certain matters that are unsettled. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, spoke of information, the urgency of information to people, public research is not information, but are the creation of a public opinion. It could therefore be better for the Constitutional Court to then make any further proposal to sanction those who lie in these public surveys and write percentages as some may and may require. On the other hand, it should be pointed out to the SD representative that SD is also making a pre-election campaign across Slovenia with huge red posters. That's all right, isn't it? Well, that's a pleasure, but that's allowed. If the SD says the proposer isn't serious, that's nonsense. The law would have no effect on these elections anyway, but it would have only been for the next election. And there's one more thing. If a longer period is prohibited before the elections, then why is the ban 24 hours before the elections? This is some illogical link that the Constitutional Court probably rejected at the time or didn't understand. Today, however, the Constitutional Court does not understand the composition in any way or does not want to understand it, because I am sure that the Constitutional Court is acting in its own interest, in the interest of certain political options, and is far from a realistic approach to everything. Maybe not yet. I don't know if my colleague heard that at first we said that we supported the desire of migrant workers and that's why we introduced this law when he wanted to say that, well, because I don't know if he understood what he was going to say. [[...]] When a colleague from Mr Šarc's party said that it was an unsettling marriage – I don't know why this would be an unsettling marriage. Surely, though, the attitude toward this law reflects a certain fear of what might happen and what might happen if some miracle boys come back in position and then collapse again. However, just as the fantastic results of Mr Jankovic have come down, he has failed to form a government. And there were fantastic results with Mr. Cerar, but he almost buried the country. And there were fantastic results with Mr. Sharpe, and he gave up halfway. Now another miracle boy is preparing, and this miracle boy in public research is given a tremendous emphasis, not having neither a party nor a program assembled, nor anything. It is said that it is evident, evident, that it is the creation of a human opinion, not a real state. Maybe there's something else that matters to the Left. On Monday, our Member Jani Ivanuša challenged these posters in Slovenia. So we've given our opinion, we've put ourselves on the right side of these posters, which are glued by certain political parties, both left and right across Slovenia. We're not for that either, but that's how it is. There's also a legal hole where this can be done. I don't know, maybe the Constitutional Court will decide that there should also be an opinion in this regard or at least some comment. Not that they sit there in their ivory tower, they have a good salary, for nine years they have nothing to worry about and do as they please. The fact is that something should be done here, too, and something will have to be done. I am pleased, however, that the SD's proponent or discusser said that a broad public debate would have to be opened in the next term. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposalr said that they went into this with the desire to arrange some things that were not arranged and to arrange them — in what way? It's a restraining order. It's like this: we have air pollution problems and then we'd sort it out in a way to say, stop breathing. Today is Slovenian brain day and let us be a little logical. If the proposer's client really had 6.7%, it probably wouldn't have been on the table, but let's just let it stand. Parliament is also a procedure; such and different laws, good, bad. Obviously, this government does not know or try to write at least as high-quality a law as it is. A fine example of this was yesterday when we were making those nomotech amendments here — how long? Almost three-quarters of an hour. If we touch these polls. Even if we forbid it, let's stop making illusions so that these polls don't take place. They would be even more manipulative than some sinking and then really do something that is already banned, and should be banned when they call you on the front page of the polls in some way over the past week, so very misleading. I remember, like, when the LDS died, they called me that once. One story that opens up here is a story that someone calls miraculous rains. I might even agree here a little bit. If I say so, today's only substantive non-parliamentary party is the Pirates, and I don't know if they have just as much media space as Dr. Golob and his team. But you know, after all, after the end of the election, citizens and citizens say, you're all the same, up, down. We also need to cut this infantility. Everyone with election rights is responsible for what it's gonna be like to have 90 of us sitting here or sitting here. And of course all 90 of us are equally responsible. Instead of the Putinov sawing of RTV Slovenia, in fact, one would expect from a public institution, not only TV, also radio, including a well-lit MMC, education of citizens and citizens on the issue. I don't get to know a whole lot of things as a Member of Parliament, I have to learn them, I have to get to know them, and I get to know these things. After all, I also studied, did polls for 20 years, not political ones, but more substantive ones. What bothers me about all these polls that are also published? For the first time, it bothers me that it is not clearly given, as it is in more serious countries, more serious media, the necessary information that should be. If you want, the data themselves on non-representativeity, representativeness of the survey, confidence intervals, statistical error and so on. It's already there to figure out how serious this measurement is or not. And secondly, how questions are created and how they are addressed. Because it can be very misleading. I can even agree with the proposalers here. There should be a debate about that. Some polls published by serious media should have this information. For example, I don't know if you're going to open up the Guardian or any German, or if you're going to open a right-wing newspaper, I might mention, I don't know, Allgemeine Zeitung or what, when there's a survey, you're going to have these statistics. Of course, then you must learn and understand them. And you'll have a link on some website where you'll have this information, and then you'll know how misleading or not. If I say so, this process should be open-ended in a way that is verifiable, and of course also in a way that is not a policy in a narrow sense, but people who are professionally engaged in it, who are also licensed, exercise mutual control or self-control of these works. That would be some approach you'd expect. After all, however we turn, you know, we must not underestimate citizens and citizens. Citizens and citizens are not stupid or stupid, as at some point in a video the bill's proponent was caught. Yeah, well, I can tell you that, but they're not exactly reasonable when they're in front of an election box. Elections are still held on voters, not on Twitter, not on Tinder, not on Facebook, and things like that. There are no saviors in politics. Serious politics is hard work. And in the eighth year, I met fewer garages in this National Assembly. And everyone, let me be forgiven, I'll say kekec, can't be Secretary of State, let alone Minister, even though he has an active and passive electoral right. The third government is now, since I have been accompanying them as a Member – from bad to worse. With this government, state secretaries, secretaries, except for rare exceptions, are almost like the third or fourth law of flying hockey trades, that you almost don't even know anymore, someone comes in, they give him something to read and read something about that cartoon Mumbley. The deer will know well, there was no reading in that old Parliament of the Kingdom of the South, you must have said. In the German Bundestag, their recommendation is that you have something to say. But we have a government that fits the National Assembly, and it comes, and I don't know, like people came to the logopedine, and so on. These are some things. Given that today is really Slovenian brain day, the world is there somewhere in June, I think, or July, I call for understanding both in addressing this topic and in voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Just one brief discontent. Today is indeed Slovenian brain day, but Comrade Duck, when you said that you compare air pollution and the treatment of this subject with the ban on breathing, I think that in this case it is necessary to require air purification, but we will continue to breathe.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I was mentioned because I represented the position. Among other things, it was said that I stated that the applicant took this as a pre-election campaign. The Slovenian national party is not for the first time in Parliament, there has really been no previous mandate, and if it were their sincere wish, this law or similar law could already be adopted. That's the first time. Second time. They tabled a law on the month of January into the parliamentary procedure. After all, if we did not make a general discussion request, this law could already be in the procedure and also adopted. It's kind of forgotten. This means that everything was so planned that at the time of the electoral campaign, this law would be brought into the National Assembly for consideration. Thirdly, for the third time, I would like to point out that this proposal is true, I will say, unusual, because Article 3 states that a ban on the outcome of elections in the media is made six months before all regular and extraordinary elections. What are the extraordinary elections for? We can't know when they're going to be in an extraordinary election. Extraordinary elections are in a very short time, so they are also called extraordinary elections. And they have a very short period of time to make the matter complete. So if it were a genuine desire to talk about it, the applicants would come with this law immediately after the elections. For when they crossed this threshold, they could point out this problem, which they were facing in 2018, when public research did not detect them and then crossed the threshold, or at least a year before that meeting or before the expiry of the mandate. After all, I can really say that the Social Democrats are not afraid of public opinion research at all. We can go to the elections normally, because the elections are really the right poll, and then we will see where we are and what voters and voters expect of us. On this site, I would just like to say that on Monday, when this meeting began, we also had before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Special Rights of the Victims Act of the War on Slovenia 1991. And their representative, the Slovenian National Parties, said, but also here, let me quote: "The content of the law that we have before us is purely political, because it is a matter of highlighting events in 1991 by the aggressor and a moral commitment by the liberator to repay the damage to all the affected." And yes, this is also where the political issue was just before the elections. Politicians remember certain activities and certain laws unfortunately just before the elections, but not all four years when they sit in the National Assembly, and then we need to think about what needs to be done, how people should be helped, where people are in a worse situation. So, yes, all four years and not just the last month before the elections must be watched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u26	First of all, who sets and places laws on the agenda — the President of the National Assembly. That is to say, if we started this January, we waited and waited and then we went to a public debate. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Mrs Muršič, if we wanted to participate in the debate, we could table amendments to those articles that you think are wrong. But you didn't want to do this, but you're interested in putting this marriage together as much as possible. But well, that's your opinion. The fact that you are not afraid of public research – of course you are not afraid of them, because you mostly have media support all the time. Not all the time in this term, but all the time since 1992. It's clear that you don't have to be afraid because they're going to do what your bosses want. Although I must say, the power of your bosses is half-eaten. With regard to the law you mentioned that he's coming back to everyone, I'm hurting everyone. Yes, we are not to settle something purely for everyone affected, because some were also affected on the other hand by those who fought for independence. On your side, however, there are some who do not have the privacy and independence of Slovenia as an option.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Let's stick to the subject of marriage. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I don't even have to add to what I said in my position. It doesn't matter to me whether the SNS party made this move as its pre-election campaign. I don't give a damn, honestly, about what some other clients do. And not only now, but as the jumbo says, cry over the entire period, all the time, constantly, permanently, permanently. So it doesn't even matter, it's more intention or content. To ban something is an additional intervention in democracy that has been seriously threatened over the past two years. What was happening with the STA, and in fact the pressures are still happening, what is happening on public television, my dears, this is a disaster. And if we add to this a story like the ban on publishing public opinion polls now, then I really don't know how those who support it are going to criticize Putin at all. He does things like that, and he probably doesn't ban public opinion polls or anything. It would be interesting to know in which countries the publication of opinion polls is prohibited. I'm really curious. Perhaps the proposer knows, I have nowhere to see how many countries in which this is actually prohibited. Because I think it's true why we should be afraid of information, even if it's not the most professionally carried out. He clearly warned his colleague, of course, about how to get these surveys to be as professional as possible, how to explain to people how they were done in order to understand them. But believe me, if we forbid this, people will find these resources even more, because the customers will order these surveys and they will publish them on their social networks. Do you think people won't go and follow this? There will be an even greater revolution in the public, and people will literally be disgusted by it, so much so that we can play with democracy, which we believe we have been working towards in independence, or how. I really don't understand how such things can even come to your mind. But I understand, of course, I understand SDS. However, I fully understand the SDS, I think it has the greatest interest to prohibit these public opinion polls, because the fact that public opinion is not really in favour of a policy that beats democratic standards, human rights and all that I used to say. It's just not affectionate. The work in Parliament is watched throughout the entire mandate and assessed through it what is happening in the country or not, and they are mostly making decisions on this basis. Believe me, at least under the influence of some polls. Maybe some kind of swing up and down, but look, we can't speculate with this. From the first day they enter the National Assembly until the last day of their term of office and their actions, they are actually speaking to the public and showing their image to the public. And the public, of course, evaluates this image and evaluates it when the election day comes. Well, whether we have these polls or not, it won't save you much. And again. You can't completely ban them. The polls will be conducted. Even if you discipline the media now, don't publish them, believe me, there's always a way. I don't know if you're also going to ban social networks, shut down Facebook, darken everything together, whether we're really gonna be in total darkness, or whether we're going to live in some free, democratic, plural society where people decide on some of their values, their visions or aspirations. But not because some parties simply want to take power and insist on it, I don't know how much time, for the next 30 years, or how old are you in SDS? I don't know, 33 or what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you. It's about polls, about media polls on big media outlets making money out of it and making profits. As my colleague Trček has already said, we should set up some different institutions that would measure which would be independent, but we do not have any independent institutions. They're just addictive media houses, but they're doing what I've already shown -- what did that lady say? – or like this [[shows with gesture]] or so [[shows with gesture]] . It's either the amount of money on the table or under the table. We're against these things, so we've called for this ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. I've already made some things very clear in my position. This bill really prevents abuses and manipulation of public opinion research. Dear colleagues, look, we have Ninamedio, Mediano, Parsifal. Look at these polls. You don't have the same percentages on any other customer in the same week. And then who can assure me that these polls are credible? These polls depend on who they call. That is why we have decided to put this bill into practice in order to prohibit this public research. This bill provides voters with conditions in which they can freely and undisturbedly form and express their true will in elections, as provided for under Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Go a little bit amongst the people, not just from the House of Parliament, but they will tell you on the street. It happened many times, and I was called, and we gave you a voice when I looked at what number we had of those 700s, and it was a very low percentage. Now, whether these voters are lying to my face or whether these polls are staged. And no one's gonna say that to me. As I said in my position, 2018, a month before the polls did not detect us. One survey was even without the SNS political party when they were doing research, and in the end this same survey showed a percentage of the party! Then how can I believe it? I can't believe these polls. That's why I always say, even when we talk to our colleagues in here, I tell everyone, real polls are the 24th or the week after the elections. That's when that's the real poll. But people on the street say, "Yeah, maybe you'll come in? [[…]] The polls don't show you." We're talking about these things today, and I think it's right. If you've been disturbed for six months, that's the first treatment, and the amendments can fly on the board for a month. But no problem at that time, even if the extraordinary elections are to be held today if the President of the Government says, but now it is over, I disband the government, there will be no new government and no new elections in one month. And we'll be able to have a nice conversation on the board then. I think it's right for us to start talking about this and move on, not be able to wipe everything out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Janez Moškrič has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u34	Nice greetings for me, too! Every marriage has a purpose. This law is clearly stated as to what the purpose of this law is. So the purpose of the law is not that people will not be informed that the media space in Slovenia is closing and similar to what has been heard today, but the purpose is not to confuse people, voters or to confuse them with incorrect information or false information. The material shows well what has happened in the past in Slovenia. And not once, the same patterns are repeated before every major election – when the actual situation in the elections is very different from what has been published in all the media and all those media or agencies that prepare and measure public opinion. I currently have an open policy list in Slovenia, first of all the President of the country, second of Golob. Yeah, dove, yeah. The pigeon is someone who predicted that he would run in these elections; it's nice, he's set up a client, he's looking for candidates, he's writing a program. Is he now a current politician by coming to the list of policies that have been here for years and years? He'll have plenty of time when he's a politician, he's supposed to be an economist right now. These are examples of which no reasonable person understands that someone can, for example, be someone who is not even a politician in Slovenia, who is not daily involved in political developments, at 10th place, and someone who is told by another poll that he is still trusted by the most people in Slovenia to lead the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and by Janez Janša, at 20th place. Statistics, brains, we know how, as my colleague Trček said, a glass is half empty or half full. These are stories that we would like not to happen because this has created a lot of confusion among voters in the past. A lot of confusion, who, when, how to believe. We cannot have people who have been trained for decades to be honest, that they will be media correct – we know that journalists have an ethical code, that their associations, that all those who are subject to a public performance are committed to more than just basic education, but we are experiencing unreasonable stories. In this mandate, in the second half of this mandate, we had to adopt an ethical code in the National Assembly, and we still have to speak words about this speaker, this party illegally, saying words based on accusations, serious accusations. If someone here tells a serious accusation about the main speaker, which can continue to be a crime, and this is repeated daily, then some of it will already be thought of by an average Slovenian. It's a dark future. Then remove the right hand. These are the words that we have heard today in this law, which is intended only to discuss or to find out how we get a public opinion in Slovenia that will truly be a public opinion. People wonder how this is happening, and they find this in village debates: "Yeah, this goes on the phone. Gee, now we're in a time of cell phones and then no, we're not available to those polling." Is that the reason? What, though, is the reason for such derogations? All of this is what honest people ask themselves. And so the politicians wouldn't ask me? That's it. I think it is right to let this law go forward, but in this area it is possible to regulate itself in the future, to the extent that the policy criterion will be taken, to question the parties who have announced or are in Parliament that want to run for office and the similar stories that are necessary for this. I'll support the first reading myself. However, the proposaler also said that it was probably quite long, and we will see what happens to the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Replica, buddy Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u36	I need to explain to my colleague Janez this popularity scale. The problem with the popularity scale is that together you throw away very different policies and wantbe policies, and you're less involved in politics, you're more out of sight, you've got better results. Which makes a little sense, because in a way you're less apart. The MEPs are high, the president of the country is high, and what a minister covering an area that seems important to us is high, although people do not know whether he is successful or not. Why is Jansha here at the end, and why didn't I come in when I was measured? Yes, because Janša has been separating Slovenia for 30 years, and your people can't see me alive. And then when you add up an enzyme, 2's, 3's, 4's, 5's very rare, you have the same grades you have. In fact, any methodological subject I taught was understood by the least ambitious student. In order for these scales to be fair, we would probably need a separate parliamentary scale, which in some way worked the Parameter, which is now essentially shut down — since when? – since March last year, because that team currently has another business. Here, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will also be given the floor by the representative of the proponent, Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u38	Just one comment on these scales. Let's take the president of the National Assembly. He said he would not run for office, he would not go to the elections, but he was still in the 12th place of popularity of Slovenian politicians. I am not on this scale, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u39	Let's get someone else to analyze. I think the law is suitable for further consideration. We will be in time deficits, but I hope that the SD will table some amendments if they have any comments on a certain article. I also call on other colleagues and expect their concrete, exact, legally sustainable approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Time's not up yet. Anyone else want to discuss it on the basis of Article 71? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 23 March, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 32. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on the science and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2030. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Damir Orehovac, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u41	President, thank you so much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It is a great pleasure for me to be able to present one more document today, which we have prepared at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with a view to laying new foundations for the development of the field of scientific research, and, of course, to lay the foundations for the next decade. The document was produced and produced in a dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders, both professional and general. The Platform for the Strategy was adopted by the Science and Technology Council on 20 January 2021 and finally by the Ministry, of course, through a specific working group composed of external stakeholders. The strategy is in line with the National Higher Education Programme 2021-2030, as these areas, i.e. science and higher education, are in some ways very closely linked. At the same time, it is in line with other strategic documents that touch on the fields of innovation and scientific research. The most important expected results and impacts that will result from the implementation of this strategy. Let me mention a few. The first is, we certainly want to include Slovenia in a group of countries that will be leading in the area of innovators and on the European Innovation Index scale, up to 2030. It is very important that investment in innovation and scientific research will increase in the coming years through the budget, with the goal of 1.25% of GDP by 2030. Research and innovation will, of course, focus on areas that address key issues for addressing the challenges of sustainable development, consistent with the 2030 objectives, related green and digital transformations and the Slovenian Smart Specialisation Strategy. The key points of the strategy are also: emphasis on the excellence of science, which is the starting point of all activities that will take place in this area; ensuring an attractive research environment, freedom of scientific research through the autonomy of the work of research organisations; efficient and transparent organisation of research work, including international evaluation institutions, and the system; ensuring the upbringing of the next generation of top scientists and scientists; access to high-level international research infrastructure; introducing open science and open innovation principles; strengthening interdisciplinary research; promoting polycentric and diverse development; shortening the path from scientific findings to socialisation and identification and development of potentials in niche areas. The strategy is designed in a transparent way by defining five sectoral objectives and four horizontal objectives. However, measures are laid down for their implementation. Monitoring the implementation of the strategy will be carried out using indicators of the European Innovation Index, allowing time comparison with other countries, proposals for an independent and uniform methodology. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I believe that today is an important day for science and innovation in Slovenia. The strategy ahead of you will outline clear foundations for further work and successful integration and co-creation of the European Research Area by Slovenian institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 27th meeting, on 25 February 2022, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Resolution on the Slovenian Scientific Research and Innovation Strategy 2030, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The representative presented the motion for a resolution. The legislative and legal service has examined the resolution submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and has warned that the motion for a resolution does not specify the initial period or period of time in the title. It therefore deviates from the previous resolution relating to the research and innovation strategy and from comparable documents in other areas and the reasons for this derogation are not explained. The city does not take into account the new legal framework established by the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation. It's divided into chapters that aren't marked. The labelling of the structural parts of the text contributes to transparency and facilitates the use of documents when referring to individual chapters and should therefore be marked. The rules and documents referring to the motion for a resolution must be defined in such a way as to specify their exact address and place of publication or accessibility, which must be taken into account throughout the text. The motion for a resolution does not follow in several places. It also noted consistency in the use of staples and the use of containers to be replaced with appropriate binders. Prior to the publication of the resolution in the Official Journal, the Legislative and Legal Service will carry out some editorial corrections that will not change the content of the proposed text. The Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also gave its opinion, which in its opinion supported the motion for a resolution. It assessed that the underlying baselines with defined objectives and accompanying measures enable the development of science in Slovenia, but pointed out in particular that the motion for a resolution should also contain a very specific objective, an appropriate evaluation of professions in science comparable to other top-level professions. The debate followed, in which a member of the Committee stressed that this was an important document for research, development and innovation, which would be the basis for policy-making in the areas of social, economic and sustainable development and societal challenges. However, in order to make full use of the potential of research for social and economic development, it is essential to increase public and private resources for research and development. The most developed countries in the European Union are now investing more than 3% of GDP in research and development, as they are aware that the only way to break through and progress in new knowledge and innovation. He also highlighted their amendment to further strengthen and financially support the Aleš Debeljak Programme and to attract as many young researchers as possible who are educated abroad. The programme allows the inclusion or return to the working relationship of research organisations in Slovenia to researchers who operate abroad or who have recently completed a doctoral study there and meet the conditions for a research project manager. This is a measure designed to combat brain escape by promoting the so-called circulation of the brain. The amendment was adopted unanimously by the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group and voted on and adopted parts of the motion for a resolution. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Leup will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good day again! The motion for a resolution on the scientific research and innovation strategy is the most important document for research, development and innovation in addition to the recently adopted law. Especially because knowledge is a good thing that meets both the individual and the society as a whole, but knowledge gives birth to science that plays a vital role in social progress and the creation of prosperity. The current resolution expired already in 2020 and the new strategic document is therefore two years late. Nevertheless, it is necessary to adopt a new resolution on a number of occasions and to synchronize it with the recently adopted Law on Scientific Research and Innovation in the Republic of Slovenia. That this is absolutely necessary, there is also experience from the two-year covida-19 epidemic, which has repeatedly challenged the integrity of science. Conspiracy theorists, doubters of scientific progress and all the other phenomena of esterical medicine were part of our daily lives and influenced people's decision to or not be vaccinated. The scientific literacy of our citizens and citizens is certainly among the conditions for the normal functioning of modern democratic society. In recent years, we have paid great attention to the harmful effects of false news and the importance of media and digital literacy, but at the time of the epidemic it has also proved very important that key decisions are made and communicated by people who are scientifically literate and capable. That is why today's resolution is important and must be understood through the prism of all the social challenges we face. Only on knowledge and innovation is a society that leads to the future. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we expect the resolution to be implemented in an optimal manner also in practice, particularly in the work relating to the financing of Slovenian science. As soon as possible, we need to reach the 1% GDP target of investing in scientific research and innovation, because otherwise all efforts will be practically futile. The same applies to the modernisation of scientific infrastructure, the popularisation of science and the ability of the country to attract and keep the best scientists in our home. That is why we also support the opposition amendment, which seeks to improve the position and status of doctoral students and researchers at the beginning of their careers. Science has endured relatively well in the last two years all the pressures it has received, both politically and broadly. It is a pity that the ruling coalition has almost always accompanied good laws and national strategic documents with partial political aspirations. The last such case is, for example, the arbitrary and unjustified discharge of the members of the Management Board of the Research Agency. Fortunately, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and the legality of this decision, the judicial branch of power has reached an end to this decision. Slovenian science and scientists deserve an enabling and defined regulatory regulatory environment that gives guidance and objectives for their operation, so we will not oppose the resolution in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mojca Škrinjar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, colleagues and colleagues, and all those who accompany us! Freedom of research is one of the universal rights and public goods set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the so-called Bonn Declaration, in which the signatory countries have committed themselves to protect academic freedom as the first condition for a diverse research and innovation landscape that seeks to develop knowledge for social benefit. Freedom is inseparably linked to responsibility. To carry out research and knowledge through the integrity of society's interests in the spirit of environmental protection and respect for fundamental human rights, this, one of the most important principles of this resolution, is recorded on page 30 of the Resolution on the Scientific Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia. The principle is written in the end, but not in the last place. In fact, this is the foundation of scientific research that should serve man and all nature, and this must be at the forefront of all times and all situations. The Law on Scientific Research and Innovation sets the target of state funding for scientific research activities at 1% of gross domestic product by 2027, which is a significant increase in funding from current funding. Already such an increase will put Slovenia at the centre of the European Union countries and will significantly increase the potential and ability of Slovenian research organisations to participate equally in the global research area. In view of the fact that investments in research activities have only decreased between 2012 and 2017, the operational solution in the law is an expression of the true will of the decision-maker to devote an excellent future to excellent science. In addition to the quantitative objective of increasing investment in research, the European Union has committed itself to increasing the impact of the results and improving the efficiency and excellence of the public research system at the same time as these funds grow. This means, in particular, greater competitiveness within the national scientific community and more cooperation, particularly in the international context. The strategy also stresses the responsibilities of the decision-maker to create such a legislative and political administrative framework to enable and protect the freedom of researchers and researchers and the autonomy of institutions towards the country, and also stresses the special responsibility for the development of young researchers and researchers. It should also be pointed out that in the spirit of human service and nature, the objectives of the strategy take into account the emerging framework of the European Research Area, within which national policies are formulated. The aim of strengthening the new law of the European Research Area is to increase competitiveness and, above all, the well-being of the people of the European Union, as Europe is facing major social, economic, environmental and security challenges. The relevant research environment, the proper reward of scientists and the care for the upbringing of succeeding generations are well-emphasized objectives in the strategy, and we are particularly pleased with the principle of the popularisation of science, which is already being realized in practice by ensuring all conditions for the establishment of a centre of science. If citizens and citizens did not understand the importance and purpose of science and innovation, they could not develop. Moreover, the path opened by the Enlightenment Age would turn down far from the curious, playful, and working mind. Since the proposed strategy offers an ambitious but viable plan for social and economic development, environmental conservation and prosperity for all, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Lidija Dijak Mirnik will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, President! Following the recently adopted law, Members and Members of Parliament today are also considering a resolution that sets out strategically the goals that we as a society and a country want to achieve in the field of science, innovation and research. This is a key document that provides the basis for shaping a future policy in all these areas. In the LMŠ we understand science and education system as a driving force for social development in the transition to a knowledge society and knowledge as a key capital that can push the way to sustainable prosperity. Knowledge is also a competitive advantage of Slovenian society, and this is what we have in Slovenia in addition to beautiful nature. Since 2011, R & D expenditure has been declining as a percentage of GDP, and since 2018 it has been even lower than the EU average, which has further distanced us from a group of leading and highly innovative countries, which was of course poor for Slovenia. Gross domestic expenditure on R & D as a percentage of GDP did not follow GDP growth, and national resources for R & D, i.e. integrated, also decreased. And, as it is said, this was bad for the development of the country. We have been pushing for greater investment in science and development and research in the LMŠ, and we are, of course, pleased that this resolution also foresees the latter. It could also be more ambitious for percentages of public investment, where 1.25% is foreseen by 2030. In the LMŠ, we believe that an additional EUR 100 million should be provided each year by 2026, as we have also written in the programme. Because we do not understand investment in science as a cost, we understand it as an investment in a knowledge society where science connects social sectors and, of course, contributes to the development of the country and society and consequently improves the lives of people in Slovenia. But resources are not all and resources are not enough. Science does not just need money, and all other measures must follow. In order to achieve a technological breakthrough, we also need an appropriate political-level deployment of development, both as part of the government and as part of the reform of the remaining strategic development documents. We will therefore, in the LMŠ in the future government, advocate the appointment of a Vice-President of the Government with the appropriate powers and responsibilities for broader social development. Even though this resolution could be even more ambitious, we will support it in the LMŠ because we believe that it is essential that we know where we are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have already stressed the full mandate of the Social Democrats that we need to improve the financing and organisation of scientific research and innovation activities in Slovenia. Why? This will only make it possible to make more effective use of European means of recovery and resilience in order to become a more innovative society, our economy creates higher added value, thereby creating better jobs, better wages, both gross and net, and, of course, greater prosperity for all of us. That is also why we welcomed and supported the new Law on Scientific Research and Innovation, which was coordinated with stakeholders, in a loving manner, by the previous team of the Ministry of Field Affairs. To a large extent, there is also a motion for a resolution, which is before us today, to continue the efforts, the goals that we have set by amending the law, which is good. Although the Government is late for adoption of the resolution, there was also no appropriate public debate on the further development of science in Slovenia. In short, the scientific policy in Slovenia is currently being conducted very, kindly, domestically. This beautifully shows the latest developments on the ARS, human resources speculation and other exploits that you are taking on this, for the development of society to an extremely important resource. It is no wonder, therefore, that you have rejected our proposals to set more ambitious targets for the financing of science in Slovenia. Unfortunately, you also rejected our amendment, whose aim was to improve the position and status of doctoral students and researchers at the beginning of your career, which is very important, after all, I myself know. The last two examples well show how the political majority at present are not interested in the future and development, but only in short-term partisan interests or as I would say, which little cousin will be concrete. We are pleased that you have supported our proposal to further strengthen and financially support the Aleš Debeljak Programme, which was introduced during the time of Minister Pikal, so that as many young researchers as possible who are educated abroad will be drawn home to enable the inclusion or return to the working relationship of research organisations in Slovenia to our researchers who are working abroad or who have recently completed doctoral studies there and, of course, also meet the conditions for managers of research projects. This also breaks down, you know, this gerontocratic ceiling when young people can't get to their own projects. We believe that a measure aimed at combating brain escape by promoting the so-called circulation of the brain will have a good impact on our scientific research ecosystem. Under the line. It could be better. Unfortunately, you're too ambitious. Certain conceptual matters and divisions between public and private would themselves have been otherwise recorded. However, it is good that Slovenia will at least formally receive the necessary development document, which is also needed to draw on European funds, even though these documents will have to be corrected after you. But unfortunately, this will not be the only inappropriate arrangement you'll leave behind. Let me illustrate: science and economy today are in-in, not or-or. About the smart transition. The latest report by Umar shows – what? That after planning together NOOs, resistance and recovery, and cohesion 2021-20217 are worse than us only relatedly populist Czech Republic and Malta and Cyprus. In short, there is still a lot of work to be done here to negotiate on cohesion, and I hope that there will be a parliamentary composition in which there will be a lot more intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u53	Hello! Thank you so much for saying that, President. The proposed strategy, which is intended to be a key strategic document for research, development and innovation, as well as a basis for policy-making in the social, economic, energy and environmental fields, is set out quite modestly. It is full of very general claims of importance in the indications of "excellent" science and concepts that are not clearly defined. The strategy also does not contain any clear, concrete and meaningful objectives, except that it sets out a serious plan of concrete measures and a timetable for their implementation. We will therefore not support the resolution in Levica. As we have been warning in Levica all the time, the extent of public investment in scientific research and research infrastructure and personnel in Slovenia is insufficient. During the economic crisis, the Slovenian governments reduced the science budget by one-third and the resources withdrawn were not compensated during the period of economic growth. The result was a reduction in the number of scientists and scientists as well as researchers and researchers, brain drains and the reduction of young researchers' programmes made it difficult to reproduce. According to public investment in science and research, Slovenia is far behind the average of the European Union, with only 0.52% of GDP earmarked for them from the budget, while the average of the European Union is 0.8%. The consequences of saving investment in science and research are becoming increasingly visible as Slovenia fell into a group of moderately innovative countries in 2019 after its innovation success. In addition to Romania, we are the only country to record the fall on the mentioned scale. The recently adopted law on the financing of scientific research activities does not address this problem, as it does not provide compulsory funding for science and research, and the pace of the increase in resources is insufficient, since it foresees that in Slovenia we will achieve a 1% of GDP public funding target in 2020. In Levi, we are disappointed that the coalition has not supported the amendment that by 2030 the resolution should pursue the goal of 1.5% of GDP of public investment and 3.5% of total investment in scientific research and innovation. The coalition also did not support the amendment to add a new measure to the resolution to improve the position of doctoral students. This amendment, together with the other parties to the democratic opposition, has been tabled once again for this meeting. I hope that the proposed measure, respected representatives and representatives of the coalition, thus establishing a respectful and fair research environment for younger researchers, will be supported today. In particular, younger scientists and scientists often point to the exploitation and compensation of younger workers, abuse of managerial positions, fraud in copyright research. They also warn of the widespread culture of concealment, concealment and tolerance of violations and the punishment of whistleblowers. At the same time, it should be pointed out that we do not have established operational mechanisms in Slovenia to systematically detect and eliminate such phenomena. Neither does this resolution provide for these mechanisms and measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia needs a strong scientific and innovation activity, which will be a pillar of progress in the country. We have been talking about this for at least 10 years, and despite the promises, resolutions, strategies and action plans of this progress over the past few years. According to the latest measurement of the European Innovation Index in 2021, Slovenia ranked 15th among the Member States of the European Union, which means that Slovenia remained in the group of moderate innovators. The European Union’s innovation performance improved throughout the period 2014 to 2021. In Slovenia it deteriorated in 2018 until 2020, and in 2021 the trend broke and turned upside down. Countries that recognize the critical importance of scientific research and innovation activities are taking the lead in today's world both in economic terms and in caring for nature, the environment and people. The scientific research and innovation strategy of Slovenia until 2030, a key strategic document for research, development and innovation, is a good basis for policy-making in the areas of social, economic and sustainable development and always new challenges of time. It is inseparably intertwined with the National Higher Education Programme, the Development Strategy of Slovenia 2030, the Slovenian Industrial Strategy 2021– 2030, the Slovenian Smart Specialisation Strategy, the National Energy and Climate Plan, the National Environmental Protection Programme 2030, the Digital Slovenia and the National Programmes for the Promotion of the Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence in the Republic of Slovenia by 2025, the Slovenian Plans – the Land of Innovative Start-Up Enterprises. Slovenia is a land of start-ups and strong innovators with a successful knowledge transfer system to the economy and society. This allows greater added value and also has a significant impact on revenue in the national budget, and this must be followed by an appropriate and effective tax environment in hand. Increasing the number of high value-added innovative enterprises has an intense impact on faster knowledge transfer, the development of society and social well-being. Science, research and development bring tested procedures and original solutions, so it is crucial to focus on stable financing of science to achieve new knowledge and original ideas, to promote close cooperation between science and the economy, to engage in European research and to create attractive and competitive conditions for work and to care for career development of researchers and researchers. In New Slovenia, we stress the need for strong integration of our scientists and innovators also with those who do their research abroad in order to allow them to return to Slovenia in the simplest possible way to transfer knowledge and experience to all young people who want it. The country must not have a machete relationship with Slovenian scientists who teach at foreign universities and work at foreign research agencies. We must be proud of them. That we are serious about innovation in New Slovenia is our best guarantor, Minister Mark Boris Andrijanic, who with the Strategic Council for Digitalisation in Education establishes an integrated digital learning environment with contemporary learning content. The Digitalisation Council is also proposing the establishment of several information platforms, including the integration of Slovenian science for the sustainable reporting of enterprises and the management of supply and demand in the field of industrial residues and waste. They are also expected to establish a single platform for the payment of copyright in particular in the field of music. Only through cooperation and only together can we be more successful as a community at home and on international scales, and this is our common goal and the goal of the resolution. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! The Resolution on the Scientific Research and Innovation Strategy of Slovenia 2030 is a strategic document that provides the basis for further development and support for science and innovation. A society that puts excellence in science and an enabling environment for research and innovation at the forefront is a company that has recognised the potential in policies related to social, economic and sustainable development. We want Slovenia to pursue these goals in the future and continue to build the future of Slovenian society with the recognition of the achievements of our science, innovation and research in the world. The resolution provides a basis for synergies in other areas as well. This is based on the Law on Scientific Research and Innovation adopted last year. Based on the starting points and guidelines adopted a year ago by the Council for Science and Technology of the Republic of Slovenia. It addresses key organisational and societal challenges, including those at international level. An important element of the resolution is its complementarity with certain areas arising from other national strategic documents such as the Slovenian Smart Specialisation Strategy, Digital Slovenia and the National Programme for the Promotion of the Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence in Slovenia. Special emphasis is placed on the new framework of the European Research Area, which aims to increase the competitiveness and well-being of the people of the European Union. Involvement in a number of other social subsystems is one of the main leaders of the resolution. We have experienced social changes in the past few decades today. They are still current and essential in directing further social progress and, above all, the ability to respond to change. The importance of science, research and innovation is crucial in every crisis. We believe that in this context the words are superfluous, if we remember the last crisis, due to the rapid spread of covid-19 infectious disease. Public funds or public investment in scientific research and innovation are crucial for their further development. In 2027, the volume of public funds will already be 1% of gross domestic product and the goal will be to achieve public investment of 1.25% of gross domestic product by 2030. The transfer of knowledge and integration with the economy is also of paramount importance for the entire investment in scientific research and innovation. With the objectives set, we expect to achieve a significantly higher percentage of total investment in science and innovation, amounting to 3.5% of gross domestic product. But let us not forget that without top experts it will not be possible to achieve all the ambitious goals. We must be aware that we need incentives and properly evaluated jobs for scientists and researchers, which are at present difficult to attract to Slovenia, even our top experts, who are today achieving excellent results abroad. To achieve this, we cannot only pursue partial objectives, but we must strive to implement as much as possible all the measures envisaged to achieve all the objectives of the resolution, thus promoting effective management of the research and innovation system and enhanced investment in research and innovation, facilitating and promoting the career development of researchers and researchers and achieving excellence in science, ensuring excellent and internationally competitive research infrastructure, accelerating cooperation between science and the economy by promoting the transfer of knowledge and innovation than all four horizontal objectives. In the Parliamentary Group, in particular, we will support the motion for a resolution on the scientific research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the sub-chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 16 March 2022. I am putting to the debate the sub-chapter »Figure 3. Career development of researchers and researchers as well as excellent science« and amendments of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Lidija Divac Mirnik was the first to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, chairman. As we say, I have very little time in the LMŠ, we believe that by 2026 every year an additional EUR 100 million should be provided for investment in science, because, of course, we do not understand these additional EUR 100 million as a cost, but as an investment in a knowledge society where science connects the social sectors and also contributes to the development of society and the country and, of course, to all of us who live in this country. That is also why this amendment, which we have tabled in the KUL coalition SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB, adds an additional measure under sub-heading “Figure 3. Career development of researchers and researchers and excellent sciences«. The new measure reads: "We will pay particular attention to doctoral students and researchers at the beginning of their careers or to young people working in research and higher education activities in Slovenia, and to Slovenes operating in these areas abroad. Emphasis will be placed on establishing meritocratic criteria for work, reward and promotion in all areas of research. All this with a view to establishing a friendly, fair and sustainable research environment for young researchers, where researchers are treated with respect at the beginning of their careers and have access to long-term and stable career paths.” What is important is the circulation of the brain, which, of course, is necessary so that we do not just experience brain drains, which is what is happening to us at the moment. That is why we want to improve the position and status of doctoral students and researchers at the beginning of their career, by this new amendment or measure, so young researchers, who will be able to receive projects in this way that will have a more stable job and will not be pushed away from saying, "older people", of course, in the notes, as well as in fact older colleagues at universities that already have their own, so to speak, levers established. It is the duty of the State to young researchers to enable them to develop their career research pathways into excellent researchers at the beginning, and of course they need to be helped to do so. This is what we are doing with this amendment. I want them to know this in the coalition, and they support this amendment if they did not hear the most about all the amendments that we have tabled to the resolution itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday, 23 March 2022, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 34. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the 2030 National Higher Education Programme. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Damir Orehovac, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u61	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members! Let me begin with the leadership of the proposed resolution, which is written under the very title Green and creative development of higher education, based on excellence and openness for the benefit of a wider society. The key strategic objective we want to achieve is to raise the level and quality of higher education in Slovenia, taking care of the quality of education and excellence in research; to increase the responsiveness, flexibility and attractiveness of the higher education system in relation to the needs of the economy, economy and society as a whole; to strengthen its international involvement; to improve the accessibility of education and opportunities for continuous education and lifelong learning throughout Slovenia; to increase the intensity of research and innovation and to improve the transfer of knowledge to the social environment. The content is built from five important sets. Let me list them, and I may only point out a few key points for everyone. Social development and the higher education system are the first. Our aim is to improve the international comparability and disciplinary plurality of the higher education system. We want to provide free study to all at all three levels. Higher education, research and technological development need to be linked more closely. Higher education institutions should be actively involved in the development of the Slovenian language and the preservation and development of national cultural heritage and identity. The second set is legislation and funding. Greater transparency and equal rights and responsibilities and equal treatment of all students and students should be ensured. Adaptability and responsiveness of higher education institutions to the needs of society is required. The third is quality. One of the important objectives pursued by the resolution is certainly sustainable quality assurance in Slovenian higher education. Teaching should focus on students and students and come from professional research or artistic work. It is also necessary to establish a system of so-called lifelong learning at higher education level. Fourth Internationalization. We want to increase the degree of involvement of universities and independent higher education institutions in the common European higher education area and thus achieve the internationalisation of the curriculum and increase the involvement of Slovenes and Slovenes living abroad in the Slovenian higher education system. The level and quality of mobility at universities and autonomous higher education institutions must also be increased. Fifth, digitization. Higher education plays an important role in the digital transformation process, which, of course, is encouraged by the motion for a resolution, so that together we can ensure the conditions for the implementation of digital transformation in our country. After the adoption of the National Programme, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will draw up sectoral action plans, i.e. its implementation, which will also define an action plan, a time-frame for implementation and mechanisms and sources of funding. Let me conclude, honourable Members. You have before you an important strategic and development-oriented document prepared with a broad consensus of the professional and interested public. Let the green and creative development of higher education, based on excellence and openness for the benefit of a wider society, become our shared leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you, too. The motion for a resolution addressed the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 27th meeting, on 25 February 2022, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a motion for a resolution on the 2030 National Higher Education Programme submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The representative presented the motion for a resolution. The legislative and legal service has examined the resolution submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. Her representative drew attention to the nature of the act or resolution and, in so doing, to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which had already repealed the regulation which had transferred to the national programme the content which could only be regulated by law. The Constitutional Court has pointed out in this regard that the National Assembly of the Rights and Duties of Citizens and Other Persons can regulate only the law, while also pointing out that Article 2 of the Constitution states that fundamental relations between the State and citizens must be governed by laws and not by resolutions. From a legal point of view, she pointed out that the content of the national programme was established by the Higher Education Act and that the motion for a resolution under consideration was not in accordance with the law. It also drew attention to the uncoordinated funding set out between the objectives and to the disputed objective relating to the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. He also gave his opinion to the Council of State, which in its opinion supported the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution assessed the quality of the basis for the further development of higher education and expressed its expectation that government action plans would follow strategic guidelines with the objectives and measures set out in the national programme. There was a discussion in which some members and members of the Committee felt that the professional public had been excluded from the draft resolution. They explained that the Government, past the Higher Education Council, has included in the proposal a financial mechanism that promotes private financing and that less favourably addresses those scientific research activities which are not directly relevant to the free market. In the case of accreditations in higher education, it was pointed out that the Government wished to enforce the possibility of circumventing the General Administrative Procedure Act, which could lead to the legal indeterminability of the proceedings in the settlement of disputes in accreditation proceedings and thus more litigation. With regard to the publication of the results of the student surveys, however, it was pointed out that there could be abuse in the anonymous evaluation of teachers and inaccuracies in numerical evaluation by students who rarely or never attended teacher lectures. Others commended the motion for a resolution, particularly the emphasis on the effectiveness of higher education, the integration of institutions and cooperation in research, teaching and technology. The motion for a resolution was also commended by the representative of the SOS, who is a representative of young people, who will also be users of the resolution. It is explained that we remain a country that can be proud of free study at all three stages, and the ambition shown in the motion for a resolution to be in the near future and at least 50 per cent, 30 to 40-year-olds have completed the first stage of higher education. They welcomed the establishment of a system of tax incentives for an investor in the higher education research system by the private sector and an incentive tax treatment in obtaining a work permit. The Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted parts of the motion for a resolution. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, chairman. Greetings, colleagues and all those who accompany us! With clearly set objectives for action within the European Union, Slovenia will be a successful and knowledge-based society, which will achieve excellent higher education and excellent research activities within higher education institutions and research institutes and responsible academic, institutional and economic autonomy. This will ensure the acquisition of competitive and quality staff for the labour market primarily in Slovenia as well as the wider European Union. This ambitious strategy puts Slovenia at the top of Europe's intellectual space, reflecting confidence, courage and readiness to work hard and respect an innovative and creative spirit. Among all the important objectives of this strategy, the objective of improving international comparability and disciplinary plurality of the higher education system deserves considerable attention. This will be disciplinaryly plural and, at national level, will ensure the representation of all important substantive and application areas. The truth is, our universities are not in the first hundred of the most successful universities in prominent international comparisons. Get away from here! There, in fact, the first ten generally occupy American universities such as Harvard, Stanford, MIT, and possibly two British: Cambridge, Oxford. The situation of our universities has not improved in the past decade; on the contrary, it has deteriorated. This is true for the average of both universities and individual colleges. In fact, some individual colleges are extremely successful, which could have led to everything. The resolution sets such ambitious goals as to encourage all universities, as well as individual universities within them, and to empower them to develop towards excellence, which will also place Slovenia on the summits of the European Union, which ensures that higher education institutions are more flexible and responsive to the needs of society. Conditions will be created and autonomy guaranteed to facilitate universities and independent higher education institutions, thereby facilitating the development of new study programmes and taking into account the employment needs in the deficit areas of rationalisation, financial efficiency and offers of study programmes in Slovenia. Special attention and approval, however, offers the objective of at least 50 per cent of citizens and citizens between the ages of 30 and 34 to complete one of the levels of higher education by 2030 and of promoting a system of transition between the secondary and higher education systems; this will be a system of vertical permeability of the secondary and higher education systems by adapting to the non-automatic vertical permeation system. The conditions for the vertical advancement of vocational and secondary programmes will be developed for the study programmes, taking into account the necessary previously acquired basic knowledge and practical experience and professional competence. Modernisation is also promising in the measure to regulate the recognition of informally acquired knowledge and the objective of establishing study programmes for the challenges of the future. Especially happy is the goal of systematically attracting Slovenes and Slovenians from foreign countries. In order to achieve quality, the resolution adequately sets out the objective of teaching students and students. It is certainly an indicator of how and how the institution or professors deal with their students, with the aim of promoting and enhancing the effectiveness of their study – the quality indicator. The objective should also be supported to increase funding for higher education activities and to give appropriate emphasis to digitisation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the equitable development of regions where higher education and scientific research are key. That is why we will support the creation of a new public university in New City, which will constitute the fourth public university, thus rounding up the offer and equal starting opportunities for all citizens and citizens. We'll support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Resolution on the 2030 National Higher Education Programme at least partially addresses some of the right objectives that should be achieved in the coming years, says the challenges. More important than this resolution that we have before us today is the action plans. If the action plans are not adopted, the resolution itself will not be implemented in the way it should be; thus, the things it considers to be good. They are, as in all government laws, also in this case, some of the subsets that make them in the Marjana Sharca List — as it all appears, if they do not accept amendments that go into regulation, as we advocate in the LMŠ — we will not be able to accept or confirm them. There's been talk about new universities. We certainly do not support the fact that new universities grow like mushrooms in the rain, because universities are the highest level of an academic sphere, research, teaching and these universities must, if they are already established, be set up as high-quality establishments, not because of such and other interests. In our view, the unsub is also an article that says that the criterion for financing public universities will also be their success in obtaining market activities. Something like that is unacceptable. We believe that universities need to be financially independent and that they must not compete in the financial market, it is for money, because this focuses on making money, not on what is their original task, but on teaching and teaching our future people who will be in such and different jobs, is what students say. For us in LMSH, this is unacceptable. We are also very disturbed by the underlings, as far as concessions are concerned. We know what the current government has been doing with concessions. Finally, at the end of the term of office, another Janševa government granted concessions which were later annulled by the court. In one of the PKPs, too, there was a subcontractor who extended concessions to selected private universities, and it was precisely the concessions that the Constitutional Court retained - that is to say the extension. For this reason, when the current government adopts such and different concession laws, we must pay particular attention. This resolution also re-emerged on matters which do not fall within this resolution. So, we could say, uh, awarding concessions to pretty eyes, so to speak, without some criteria. That is why we are also putting amendments in the opposition, which determine these criteria, these conditions are much more planned, according to the condition that no one can get concessions in good sight. We hope that the coalition will confirm this amendment. We also disagree with the fact that when the coalition has rushed into this resolution, we can say that there is a very controversial article in private universities, namely, concessions, erasing the condition of personnel and infrastructure. So it's unheard of that someone gets a concession, but he doesn't have regular professors, he doesn't actually have the teaching staff that he teaches at this university, but they're just outside associates, and he doesn't have the infrastructure. In fact, there is no way that this pedagogical process could even take place in some normal way. As I have already mentioned, the resolution partially addresses some rights, some things that will have to be settled in the future. We also hope that these action plans will be adopted to this end. However, we would like to see the opposition's amendments, which, as I have already mentioned, will be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members, fellow Members! The National Programme for the Development of Higher Education, which was in force in the period 2011-2020, expired without amending the Higher Education Act. Although the previous team left you with a good foundation of the novel in your drawer, to a large extent in line with the stakeholders at the level of the working group, the current leadership of MIZŠ was obviously not interested in this, as more attention was paid to the unnecessary and unconstitutional provision of the 6th Anti-Korona Act, which was written on the skin of a particular private, which is politically close to the current nomenclature. It was also time for partial interesting stories and, of course, as for the right government, for granting concessions in suspicious circumstances, without taking into account the audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the quality assurance and diversity of study programmes in the Republic of Slovenia. The only reason this resolution is before us is probably based on exceptional professional staff at the Directorate for Higher Education, which has been awaiting the current Minister and has merit for the basic preparation of the proposal for the development of higher education. Although there is no doubt that there is no room for professional staff at the Ministry under this incompetent team, it has given priority to loyalty and the pursuit of partisan and not public interest. Slovenia would need changes in the higher education sector, which must be in line with the time in which we live, and in particular should allow for development in the direction of quality, cooperation with the environment and global trends. Instead, we regret today a resolution that shows from the plane how your friends, the owners of private colleges, wrote a paragraph on concessions and public service. That's why you probably rejected our amendments. There was no support for a provision restricting private individuals with concessions in charging students’ costs and contributions. Apparently, you don't mind if someone serves at their expense. Even the additions resulting from the official recommendation of the Advocate for Equality, which we adopted and proposed, were not supported. How important it would be to introduce the so-called research lump of suspicion to strengthen research activities at the university, it is also obvious to you whether or not you want to be clear. With all the bombers that you have divided over the last two years, and we will still have a very severe headache after them, and you have not been able to support a proposal that would aim to build at least 5,000 new student beds by 2030, so that you have turned your back on the proposal to adopt the law on the final construction of NUK 2, and I am not losing words. Below the line: the resolution before us, like many of this government, is prepared in a way that is only to ensure adequate conditions. What is good in it is thanks to the professional staff you have already dismissed and the stakeholders involved in the preparation of this resolution. This will also obviously be another bad job that you left behind and a correction that we will have to approach after April 24th, which we can only hope will come sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you, too. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Good day again! At the time of the current government, its voting majority in the National Assembly has rushed to adopt a broad range of strategic documents that guide the development of different areas for a decade or more: arms acquisition, long-term supply, national cultural programme and so on. Unfortunately, I note that the common denominator of all the strategic documents under which the current authority is signed is always the same: private, sometimes personal, partial interest in the public. From here on and for this reason, in practice, to decompose the existing one with a rescue forecast of replacement with "better, more modern, more European, i.e. private". It is difficult to say that the present document, i.e. the motion for a resolution on the 2030 National Higher Education Programme, offers direct privatisation of higher education, and as plastics you are very creatively pushing it to meet the criteria not to explore development and education, but the market, i.e. private capital. In order not to be mere flat and general, the Government puts in the National Programme a financial mechanism that promotes private financing and less favourably addresses those scientific research activities that are not directly relevant to the free market. The institutions in the field of higher education would therefore redirect the pursuit of such a goal to those disciplines that could obtain more application projects, which would then be prepared to finance private capital. This developmental slide was also widely pointed out by the Slovenian High School Union. This objective or mechanism also encourages the dissemination of the application activity at the expense of basic research, which should not be the key focus of public funding for higher education. This specific provision thus relativises the adoption of a programme to increase the budgetary financing of higher education precisely because of its wider social importance. This problem, colleagues and colleagues, in the Levica Group we are trying to resolve at this point of parliamentary hearing with an appropriate amendment and a bill of common sense and support. But it's not the only cross of this document. It is also problematic how the Government introduced the possibility of circumventing the General Administrative Procedure Act in accreditation procedures. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has once violated established accreditation procedures for higher education institutions in respect of accreditation in this mandate, or has changed the conditions of accreditation by means of an intervention law to remedy the consequences of the epidemic. The content proposed here may lead to the legal uncertainty of the procedures for the resolution of disputes in accreditation proceedings and thus to more litigation, which reduces the argument put forward by the applicants of this objective. Moreover, the National Higher Education Programme still includes the public publication and ranking of individual teachers and teachers, although it has proved to be an abuse in practice in the anonymous evaluation of teachers and for the inaccuracy of numerical evaluation by students who rarely or never attended the teacher's lectures that they evaluate. In the past, the Ministry of Resort and the Rector's Conference have been warned that, due to the obligation to carry out surveys, students with low numerical assessments are penalising more demanding teachers and that the public publication of these evaluations is even used as a means of pressure from the supervisors on individual teachers. In practice, the publication of results in this way does not contribute to the improvement of the quality of teaching work. We have proposed in the previous reading of the amendment that students should be allowed to make analytical, qualitative assessments and that appropriate qualitative evaluation indicators of pedagogical work be introduced in addition to existing research and quantitative teaching indicators. The voting majority of the National Assembly felt that the amendment, which translated the so-called call of the higher education union, was irrelevant and inadequate. In Levi, however, we feel that this government is not appropriate, and we look forward to April 24th. It will be followed by the adoption of strategic documents that will actually help in important areas such as health, long-term care, climate policy, culture and education and development. We won't support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thanks again for the word. Your Honor! In Slovenia, about 14,000 to 15,000 students are elected to continue their studies in higher schools and universities per year, making it clear that the pool of quality students and professors is limited. The Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme until 2030 is therefore a key document for the development of quality objectives, criteria, measures and policies in the field of Slovenian Higher Education Area. The need to raise the quality of higher education, including in view of the needs of the economy, the economy and society as a whole, is growing. Strengthening and cooperation in the international environment, lifelong learning and increasing research and innovation and the transfer of knowledge into the environment are also strongly expressed. With clearly set objectives for action within the European Union, Slovenia will be a successful and knowledge-based society on a global scale. This will be achieved through excellent higher education and strong research activities within higher education institutions and research institutes and responsible academic institutional and economic autonomy. In the last decade, we can see and sense how things in the field of knowledge and research and teaching are changing rapidly. Sustainable training and effective transfer of knowledge into the environment is becoming increasingly important. Surely the future in digitisation, in the green transition, is becoming more and more a way of life lifelong learning. In Nova Slovenija, we would like to stress that education remains in Slovenia and must remain equally accessible to all under the same conditions and free of charge. We are aware of the importance of internationalising Slovenian higher education because it is in Slovenia's interest to attract more foreign experts to the work of universities and independent higher education institutions. The target has already been set in the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020 and has not been implemented in the last 10 years. This time, the resolution adds an incentive tax treatment measure that will help to obtain more foreign experts. We Slovenians are a two-million-dollar nation, so attention must also be paid to the teaching of foreign languages. We need to look at our language with a great deal of responsibility, and if we want to preserve the Slovenian language, we must also protect it. Certainly some comparisons with the great European peoples, such as the French, the Spanish and the Germans, are not in place, since they are more than fifteen times the size of the nations. In Novi Slovenije we have written in our programme for the period 2022 to 2026 that we are committed to international open higher education, higher education and that we will also be able to rehabilitate the best international professors, experts and entrepreneurs by amending legislation in Slovenian universities. As an example, Professor Jureta Leskovec would make an important contribution in his innovative opinion to ideas and new knowledge in our higher education space, as well as a new view of the academic sphere. It is necessary to move from subsidies to tax reliefs as the granting of subsidies requires an extensive bureaucratic apparatus and tax relief is certainly the most stimulating one. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's Ambassador Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a resolution on the National Higher Education Programme for the period from 2021 to 2030 lists as key strategic objectives raising the level and quality of higher education, increasing the response, flexibility and attractiveness of the higher education system in relation to the needs of the economy, the economy and society as a whole. The National Higher Education Programme, prepared by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, is said to be a key strategic document for the development of quality objectives, criteria, measures and policies in the Slovenian Higher Education Area. During this time, Slovenian higher education should create conditions and be able to respond to the accelerated dynamics of changes in the development of society and environmental challenges, taking into account the free scientific, artistic creation and the need for coherent regional development of the country. They also predict that higher education will continue to be a public good and public responsibility, which is ensured through clear and legislative rules and the supervision of their respect and sufficient funding from public funds to prevent the transfer of study burdens to students. That sounds pretty good, doesn't it? But as always, there's a rabbit in this bush. As we have already been accustomed to, the government has also put some potentially controversial provisions into this resolution; for example, legal obstacles in the field of legislation and accreditation procedures will be removed by eliminating the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act and focusing on the content and quality of the assessment. This means that NAKVIS would no longer be bound by the provisions of the ZUP when conducting accreditation procedures for higher education institutions and study programmes, as the law would allow the Agency to apply only meaningfully the provisions of the ZUP. The latter would lead to evidence of arbitrary decision-making, or rather to direct decision-making, and eventually to a much larger number of judicial disputes. The resolution also states that "with the provision of educational, research and artistic excellence, the ability of higher education institutions to self-require other resources that do not come from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be one of the important indicators that will stimulate the financing of higher education institutions". That provision thus relativises the objectives of the National Higher Education Programme in order to achieve the objectives of funding for higher education, since it in fact forces for guidance to those sub-disciplines that bring more private money, which certainly must not be the key criteria if we want quality and excellence. We are therefore quite surprised in the SAB that the Government of Public Education is clearly taking a stand by sending public funding institutions to fight for funds to the free market among individuals. Under the cover of student stress, we are thus faced with another potential attack on public education, this time higher education; higher education, which has been greatly weakened by the parties to this coalition in the past by allowing for the uncritical creation of private higher education institutions, which have been dedicated to the award or thanks of their political supporters and which will, of course, be why not – richly financed by public funds. We have not even forgotten the failed and untasteful attempt to amend the Higher Education Act, which reminds us of how the higher education institutions should meet the changed conditions only when the second extension of accreditation, which has proved to be a gesture that went specifically for one of the higher schools – your new university, co-owner of Peter Jambrek, your wife is in the governing bodies, your daughter and son – or whatever she already has, the Rector is Matthew Abelj and so on. In short, one such charming display of right policy and we fear that such a policy of governance will only continue. In the opinion of the SAB, however, the task of the State is to provide conditions for a quality public education system, from primary school forward, through secondary school, through college and to the end. Only single and well-educated young people can hope for a successful business trip, a satisfying and happy working period and an old age, a decent pension that will also provide them with a decent age. In the SAB, we will not deviate from this objective of high-quality public education, so we will not support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you, too. The position of the Group will in particular be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, especially the Minister! The second strategic document we are considering today is the motion for a resolution on the 2030 National Higher Education Programme, which has been coordinated with all key stakeholders in higher education and reflects commitment to achieve the best results in responding to social change, as well as to pursue coherent social development. The objectives of the resolution focus on the freedom of scientific and artistic creation and, as some have already said before us, through all measures, a number of values and criteria are mirrored which give priority to innovation, teaching, research and artistic excellence, raising the quality of our higher education space in an international scale, ensuring and maintaining quality working and study conditions, ensuring high standards of academic culture and ethics, cooperation with the economy, respect for institutional autonomy and, finally, creating conditions for achieving the welfare of society. Our comparative advantage with other countries is also widely accessible at tertiary level. Education remains a key value in our society. As a public good, higher education continues to be a public responsibility, provided mainly by regulations, supervision and adequate and compulsory public funding. The motion for a resolution also provides for an amendment of legislation which would allow a flexible and responsive Slovenian higher education environment with attractive conditions for study and work for the purposes of internationalisation of education, research and art. Special emphasis is also placed on the acquisition of highly qualified personnel from abroad. As in many other areas, higher education will not be able to achieve optimal development unless it is a constructive partner in developing digital transformation in the fields of teaching, learning, research and innovation. We believe that all these topics are adequately addressed in the motion for a resolution. Let us not forget that higher education gives young people in particular the opportunity to start a quality career. No less important is the dimension of social, cultural and economic development. The quality and diversity of higher education should also be reflected in a high number of educated and innovative experts, who are characterized by high ethical standards. This space is co-created by all of us and not just the executive branch of authorities and a wide range of autonomous university entities. To achieve this, we need, among other things, top experts, including those from abroad, who would enrich our higher education or academic space. Aware of this, we have improved the text of the resolution in some parts by supplementing it on the home committee. On this occasion, I would point out only two sets of measures that we have implemented with complements. The first concerns the development of specific measures to attract top experts from abroad. The second, which is indirectly linked to the first, is aimed at establishing a system of tax incentives for investing in the higher education and scientific research system by the private sector. One of the more important objectives to ensure a widely accessible and internationally integrated higher education with internationalisation in the Slovenian space and some of the study programmes that would also be carried out in the foreign language is strongly intertwined with the objective of establishing mechanisms for the sustainable development of the Slovenian language in higher education and science, in particular in terms of professional language. In our Group of Members, we strongly support the latter. The motion for a resolution contains many measures where, in addition to raising the quality of higher education in Slovenia and ensuring the quality of education and excellence in research, we also pay much attention to greater responsiveness, flexibility and attractiveness of the higher education system in relation to the needs of the economy and others. We will support the motion for a resolution in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u79	Nice greetings to all present! The resolution considered as a key objective is to raise the level and quality of higher education in Slovenia. Of course, it also cares about the quality of education and excellence in research, increasing the responsiveness, flexibility and attractiveness of the higher education system in relation to the needs of the economy, economy and society as a whole; in particular, strengthening its international involvement, improving the accessibility of education and opportunities for continuous education and lifelong learning in higher education across Slovenia, increasing the intensity of research and innovation, improving the transfer of knowledge into the social environment. It sounds nice, but what if it has nothing to do with the real picture and life in Slovenia. The Bologna study system has significantly reduced the quality of the study if we want to admit it or not. Students who complete the Bologna System of Teacher Studies must also enter a Master's degree in order to be able to study in schools. The current legislation is crazy; students are not employed without a professional examination, and there is a mandatory professional examination in employment. And how will the student now get a job if he has to do a six-month job before his professional exam? Adolescents are directed to higher education studies under the guise of castles in clouds, which are largely not beneficial in the labour market. On the other hand, higher education is provided where almost most graduates are immediately employed, with at least 40% of their education being carried out by the employer. It is absurd that we have masters of engineering who can not replace even lamps; Masters or even doctors of economics cannot calculate in the store how much the price of the product is if it is 10 percent cheaper. In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware that there is power in knowledge, but knowledge must be of quality. In fact, we're short-staffed, not educated. We've abandoned our professions, such as: ironwork, welder, auto mechanics, messer. As I am aware, there are no good sources in Posavje, no such personnel. A thousand 500 euro net is offered for good welders, and yet they cannot get them because there is no education or education for this profession. They used to have compulsory practice for such schools for at least six months. Education has never been an indication that someone has knowledge and can even cash it. It will be necessary to move slowly from beautiful words to concrete action, which will not be achieved by a personal resolution. And another thing I've said here: don't share the Maribor student and the Ljubljana students! They're all students.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Yuri Lepi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues to all! We have before us a new resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, which outlines the direction and intensity of the development of this area until 2030. This is a document that suggests that Slovenia will be a successful and knowledge-based society on a global scale, which will be achieved through excellent higher education and research activities within higher education institutions. Since paper conveys virtually everything, it makes sense for this document, which is now on our benches, to devote a few more words. Unfortunately, the resolution is adopted at a time when the current government has shown its appetite for managing higher education, which is one of the better and optimally functioning social sub-systems in our country, so it is not irrelevant what kind of traveller we give it with a new national programme. The key strategic objectives set out in the resolution are: raising the level and quality of higher education, increasing the response, flexibility and attractiveness of the higher education system, strengthening its international involvement, increasing more intensive research and innovation, and improving knowledge transfer. These are the bold goals that are certainly to be followed. It is certainly also important to maintain a free study for all at all three stages of the study. But if we really want to improve our excellence and quality in an international comparative way and give more emphasis to real internationalisation, not just one that will be written down on paper, then we will have to overcome the linguistic closure of our higher education space. This can also be achieved with a consistent concern for the development of the Slovenian professional language or expression. In the coming period, we are likely to have a more comprehensive amendment to the Higher Education Act, which will have to follow a new resolution, with particular attention being paid to its political and ideological work. They certainly do not include the idea that the National Agency for Quality in Higher Education would no longer be bound by the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, or the ideas that we recall from the PKP legislation regarding the extension of accreditation to higher education institutions, which fortunately kept the Constitutional Court's final decision. Or the following example: friendly award of concessions to private and higher education institutions and selective transformation of private independent higher education institutions into public institutions with a view to the creation of another public university in Slovenia. This is not a good journey for the integrity of higher education. Of course, the unconnected Members of the resolution in question will not object. However, we will support most of the amendments tabled by the opposition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the sub-chapters and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the reviews of the amendments tabled on 16 March 2022 and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am putting into discussion the sub-chapter of the measures to achieve the strategic objectives of the social development and higher education system and the two amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes, so I'm gonna start the application. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Today we have, I would say, what one thematic morning such a resolution on science, now a resolution on higher education, and it would also be right if we were somehow guided. Of course, a little bit of a joke, I really hope that after April 24 this resolution actually applies and that the hope of Mr Mark Koprivac to arrive on April 24th as soon as possible will be more attributed to the category of 36 sunny days in November, which we have after the mayors in Ljubljana. So it's all about this again: private and public. Once again, we have an extremely small share of private institutions in primary, secondary and higher education compared to foreign education. Demonstrating the private, demonizing the individual is a sign of dictatorial thinking for me, where only the state and its bureaucrats can create with our money what this click is – you like to use that word, it is familiar to you and I return it – it seems smart. Look, it doesn't matter whether it's a public institution or a private institution. Who's the founder, that's not important at all. The programme accredited by NAKVIS is essential, i.e. the institution which is in charge of stating whether the study programme complies with a strategy, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with legislation. And if the study program is accredited, what's the problem? What's the problem? So our accreditation is comparable to accreditation in the European Union, so it is in line with this. And I don't understand. I don't really understand where you're going with the problem of the founder being a private person. Or, look, in the New Town, where someone has also been groomed today, in New Town he is the founder of a private college...................................................................................................................... And that's not right either. And now this private college will, hopefully, turn into a public college in the coming weeks – but that is also not right for you! And a public college to form the fourth public university in New Town. It's about having a region where there's a lot of knowledge, creativity, work, famous companies like Krka, like Revoz, like Trimo Trebnje, like Adriamobile. All these companies actually need an inflow of knowledge. And why would this knowledge not be created there and also somehow with experience from practice? I think that this resolution is very kind to all, both public and those of a small number of private institutions, both those who advocate public institutions and private institutions. The resolution clearly highlights what is essential. And it's all about quality. Let us strive to do so! Do we know that there is, let's say, a Shanghai scale by which universities in the world are classified according to different criteria? Look, we couldn't even dream until now to get to the first hundred on average. In the first ten, American universities are always found, and two English universities are found, and Cambridge is Oxford. Besides, Harvard always comes first, then Stanford goes first, then MIT, then Berkeley, and so on. But do you know that most of these aren't public universities, they're just private? And why are our Fulbright fellows staying at these private universities in America? Those are good ones, aren't they? Look, over and over, quality is essential. I am pleased that this resolution also highlights the objective of how you deal with students and students, how much time the institution and professors devote to empowering them, encouraging them, encouraging them to study regularly, completing their studies and achieving the best possible results. This is very important. And I think that with all the objectives set by the competent ministry, the competent minister in this resolution is actually opening the way for us, including Slovenia, to the summits of the European Union and to the summits of the world. After gross domestic product, we are incredibly successful in Europe, that is 8%; we are the fifth safest country in the world; we are the second since we successfully managed the crisis – and education has helped. Also, say what you want! And why don't we go even higher? Why don't one of our universities appear among those ten, whether it's Ljubljana, whether it's a coastal, Mariborian or a future novice or a private college? In doing so, it should be pointed out that our colleges, which are very good, are also on average. Let's be ambitious! Let us make sure that all our students and students have the opportunity! And let's stop fighting about whether it's private or public. I've never seen a rich man get rich with a private school or a college. That's just not profitable. This is something you do out of curiosity, desire, creativity, in a slightly different way. I think that this resolution needs to be supported, unified, as we have already been able to unify ourselves in the past, even by breaking into the stars, even among thorns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Thank you very much, dear colleague Boxer, for this propaganda speech! The fact is that in the last two years, if anything signs the actions of the current government, this is universal privatisation. And as I have previously defined in the position of the Group of Members: private, sometimes personal, in any case, the interests of individuals and companies close to the government over public interest. And this is now, with this resolution, I think, a very beautiful black on white is particularly reflected in the points that I have already pointed out in the first place. However, it is an interesting view of how this is done in practice. Of course, the government didn't come to the National Assembly and said, "Hey, we have a good idea, let's privatize higher education." Of course, the government did not do so because they know that if they were to at least approximate this narrative, it would immediately be a fire in the roof. But they came up with a proposal that says, "Hey, let's give us a little more resources or a better mechanism to allocate resources to those higher education institutions that encourage, call it, application or more useful science, usable knowledge, instead of those on those sides that serve only science, research and scientific research." If I translate this into a simple language: let us give more money to those who are developing activities operating on the market. What else is this to put the market above public interest? What else is there to place shareholders on the market, i.e. capital, above public interest? It's nice to wrap things up in some sort of lattice that goes through the public, but this one's pretty clear, you know, colleagues and colleagues. That's it now. I must admit one weakness here: I am not domestic in the field of education, nor am I a member of a working body, a competent working body in the National Assembly, but I am clear one thing; wherever in any area we have come to a point in the last 30 years when either this area, or state-owned companies, or whatever it is privatised, this has led to collapse. I remember as a child of my childhood in Trbovlja, where I lived at a time where a lot of state-owned public enterprises functioned, with time after independence and privatisation. Total collapse! The collapse, from which, hand to heart, after thirty years, the region has not yet completely recovered. And the reason was the shameless privatisation, the sale of public, in order to satisfy the interest of private, some capital, some man who had something under his thumb, got there, said he didn't care about these 500 workers here, he'll sell this, wait a little bit for bankruptcy or not, he'll see what's worth. 500 people fired – yes, but what can we do, then, the free market. Make sure they're in the open market! Or a fine example, a very up-to-date example of a respected vice-president, I see that you are listening – a very plastic example of how harmful privatisation is, which is now being brought into higher education by such documents, are the homes of the elderly. We have worked long and wide in this mandate. I'm not speaking from some political-ideological matrix, I'm speaking on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors, which did not go ideically and politically into this matter, in reviewing the operations of the elderly's homes. And what did they find? They found that those homes of older people who operate, which are included in the public network, but are, in fact, private companies that are not primarily there to address the public interest of the care and care of older people, but as companies act to create profits, to be more accessible and to be more expensive. That the people, the guards and the guards, the residents and the residents of these homes are at a disadvantage. On the worse! That they pay more for the same services. They pay more for the same services they receive in the public service as well. Why? Because, as a company, the manager of this house works or operates as in the market through the eyes of competition. This logic of competitive thinking is already On vomiting I go to think that it is a country and that as a society we have allowed it to enter the area of caring for the weakest group that are older. [[…]] And now we're looking at how this logic slowly creeps, even in this case, into the area of higher education. And I don't answer here, colleague Boxer, you – to demonize the private. No! No! It is a simple pragmatically measured conclusion: where the home of the elderly was privatized, people are at a disadvantage; where the factory privatized, people were at a disadvantage. I don't know, look at the dentistry in Slovenia that we have here, we will surely be able to confirm – an area that is brutally privatized. On the other hand, a public dentistry that you can reach in six months. And people are on the worse side. Direct result of privatisation. So it's not about demonization, it's really, as it were said, about some pragmaticly measured conclusion. In the case of the home of the elderly, the Court of Auditors found that it was more expensive to provide care, that we could be closer to some machinations in this field, that people were paying inside the bill for their investment of the company and so on and so on and so on. Now, however, we have this example of ploughing the principle of privatisation, market behaviour in the area of higher education. Comrade Boxer, I'm glad you opened the case of America. We know that higher education there is one, if I'm sarcastic, example of good privatisation practice. But of course, people like to brag about titles from this university and that university, you listed some of them. But the data, which is a little blacker and which again concerns students and students from U.S. universities, is how their studies affect their personal and family budget – and consequently their social security. I have now quickly recovered the information that if a student, if he can even afford a quality education in this privatised United States university map, is paying for it, both over his thumb, for a EUR 400 per month. Is this the future of higher education in Slovenia that we want? And at the end of his degree, it's called a student debut, on his back to pay a good 30 grand. These are the cheap schools! The higher they rank, the more expensive the tuition, the wider this student Debt, the harder it is for the students to pay back and the more it drags and drags into their active lives. Now let us translate this, please, colleagues and colleagues, into the current situation in Slovenia. Where students can't even get to an apartment if they don't have exactly parents who have one attic in their home too much; if they can't even afford one normal rent in which of the Slovenian universities; if they're struggling with student work, if they get to it, if even the epidemic is closed somewhere, let's translate it to a Slovenian map. [[…]] Let's call this a private demonization. Well, that's crazy. That's crazy! We do not know if you, colleagues and colleagues, watched – a few years ago Michael Moore released a documentary about Who to Invade Next or Who will be next, which we will occupy in the free translation. And he also walked to Slovenia where he admired the system of strong, accessible public higher education. He used to walk between colleges in Bežigrad and students and ask: “Hey, how much do you pay for college?” And everyone looked at him with a fat eye: “What do you think I’m paying? Why am I paying?” And then he found American students who went from America to study in Slovenia, in Ljubljana, because they came here to a quality study also in their language for free. Because it's public. Because the Slovenian educational system did not fall for the trick of privatisation. And the filmmaker decided that maybe the Americans of Slovenia would occupy the following because we have a strong network set up here and because it pays to study and enjoy youth. In order to avoid this, colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed in the Parliamentary Group the present amendment, which is simply moving or moving away from general privatisation to the general defence of public higher education. Because if this happens, we are talking mainly about some of the developmental slips of higher education, and this is also pointed out by the Higher Education Union of Slovenia. And what we're actually doing with the amendment is translating their call, translating their concern from this privatisation madness into a more simple, logical, healthy, public higher education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. The word is from a representative of the government. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Comrade Minister Janez! I am listening to this debate now, and I would like to explain just a few more explanations about the consideration of the new ten-year resolution on the national higher education programme in our country. First of all, allow me to thank you for a very broad constructive debate and also to participate in the preparation of this document, which, despite the fact that it is now being considered finally in the National Assembly and has been dealt with before in the Government, is in the first place a professional development document. Even through the formal procedure itself, he was preparing, writing and then, in the light of what we have already heard, caring for the public interest and for the best quality, quality possible knowledge and also the conditions for the work of higher education workers, this document was then also at this political level and was complementary in terms of this political responsibility. Thank you, too, for all these additions, which I believe have enriched this final version of the document, which you will also finally vote on. Nevertheless, I would like to make one basic explanation, in a broader sense, so that we can understand what we are talking about. Public-private. Look, it's not just public-private. We really need to talk about state-public-private. In our country we have three universities, which are actually from the point of view of funding, from the point of view of institution and also from the point of view of governance of the State University. However, public universities are also private universities, which have been awarded concessions by the State and thus donated funding. But private universities are those that are completely private-private. And when you go to look at it in international space, you will see that the concept of so-called state universities as well as those of the world's predominant is very small and that it is the most true of public universities. And when you've exhibited private universities in the United States, look at the way and how much funding for these so-called private universities actually makes their state budget possible, and you'll be surprised. In this light, all I want is an explanation, you know we won't be misled by what we're talking about. However, it is undeniable that it is and must remain a public interest and the fundamental responsibility of each country to offer the highest possible quality, quality knowledge and conditions for the work of both employees and of course students. What did that development lead both globally and at European Union level in this regard? Provide opportunities that will allow for the greatest possible interconnection of both markets, the needs of the workforce on the one hand, and of course of this basic science and its development on the other. Linkages that will mean integration in a broader, international, global context. That is why our initial call, with great concern for the Slovenian language, has nevertheless been directed in this sense also in terms of internationalisation and opening up the Slovenian space for the sake of competitiveness, also to the English language in particular. Then the third element of integration, cooperation or what is often called synergies in the European space is closer cooperation between higher education and other lower education verticals. It is very important that at lower levels he knows and knows what are the preferences of both those who learn and broader societies for what knowledge we need and cooperation with research work in particular. And in this story, there is actually a focus on development in this field. I am pleased that we have found both in the consideration of the previous development document for the next decade, this is research-innovation as well as these synergies in a different way: to open up space in this sense for closer cooperation to find possible different forms of cooperation. Each university will then decide for itself in what way it will go, but it must have open opportunities and all under the same conditions. In this light, then, the direction is to make the university and its employees and, of course, its students competitive. The easiest thing to say is that we are offering this, and we are already quite self-sufficient. That is why, in some cases, we are on these international competitive scales where we are. Mrs Škrynjar has already mentioned these certain higher education scales. It is also interesting, for example, if you look at Unesco's general, the last typology of quality at individual levels of education around the world, Education and Glance, you will see that this education index is extremely high in us. We are in 12th place after the educational process in the preschool educational area. Because we not only educate there, but we already educate and are among the 160 countries in the world in the 12th place, we are about 20 cities based on basic education, and then we start to fall dramatically. From this point of view, we are in the worst part precisely in higher education and the arguments sought there as explanatory arguments are directly linked to the system we have. We have been very centralised, now in some way listening to it geographically decentralize and open up to such, modern, competitive cooperation and space, so that we can finally get the best quality, highest-quality staff, and thus also allow for the same development for those who teach. Because this is actually the first capital that one such society can have in such a country is geographically small, such as ours. And here's the story, and we have to do it and do it on clear terms, clear criteria that apply to everything in the same way that they are ever, with all the facts, with all the data, with all the references, achievements, because this is also extremely important, verifiable, verifiable, and only on the basis of this. These are facts, this is transparency, this is a system that can be development-oriented and which is exactly what the basis of this content document provides. And the reason why. As it is said, at the very level of the Committee's consideration, we have confirmed those amendments that have still enriched such guidance and also the reason why these amendments, which are still under consideration today, will not, or we do not see the need to support them, because they overprotect one regime, one system of so-called state higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you, too. Member Primoz Siter, do you want a replica or a debate? It's a debate. Sutter's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Just a few answers, or she's thinking to the secretary. See, the same argument I can serve back: if we defend on one side a public and accessible educational system and it is wrong; see, with the same arguments and very well supported arguments that I have already stated in my first intervention, I can, of course, demonize private education. Which, however, is the fact that in its essence it is exclusive and conditional on the participation of a student with his material or financial status. And now to say that private universities are large and that this is a priori oki, that this is a sure and executed fact and that the state budget finances privates generously, that it is also an executive fact that happens in itself in all advanced societies or countries – look, I do not buy it! Because we have in Slovenia, we don't need to look at America and I don't know who, we have a strong public school system in Slovenia, which is a good, functioning school system. And now the issue of foreign statistics on the competitiveness of students in the world, which I have understood from your intervention, conditional on the financing of private schools from the state budget. Beyond these statistics, the key question remains where is the person here, where is the student here, how accessible is this privatized student and student education, how could, according to the example of America previously celebrated by Mrs Škrinjar, how can one student who is in Ljubljana from Murska Sobota, with 400 euros of rent available, I don't know how we can go in this direction, but there must be something else to eat, so let's hope that the parents are millionaires, because otherwise they won't, because this model doesn't fit and is excluded and is discriminated against. [[…]] And that's the problem! The numbers may, of course, be, through the eyes of some neoliberal social and state arrangements of course, the competitiveness of our students on the world market and blah blah. What about the survival of our students in the home Mercator? That's what we're talking about, isn't it? And the education system is not just a classroom, the educational system has its hunters, as you have repeatedly stressed, in the economy, in the labour market, on the social map and so on. Privatisation here deletes all other factors, focusing only on the market value of what is happening in the classroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you. Reploco has Mrs. Moica the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u91	Make sure we don't mix pears and apples. If there is a private higher education institution, this does not mean that a student has to pay for his studies. The establishment is not necessarily associated with this, with the payability of the study. That's what you need to know, and you can't fool around here. Let me also say that it is this government that has ensured investment in student homes, which has died and has not been raised since the great crisis of 2011, even though the economy has progressed. In 2015 we recorded growth, but there was nothing in the student homes; nothing, as Mrs Bratušek said. Now he's making a lot of money. Not only will it be renewed, but it will also build on new ones, as I know in Ljubljana. What was being restored in the dormitory was only being restored from what the student homes themselves produced by what was not a subsidised price in the past. This government, which you see as a form of privacy, that is, a preference for private capital, this government gives money to students’ homes. And really, once again, who the founder is, it doesn't matter what the program is. However, the programme must be accredited, it is said to be stately recognised, and must be in accordance with the Constitution, the law. There's no fear here, it doesn't matter. As with the health system, I don't care if the founder of that dental office is a private or a health home. All I care about is that he's gonna stop hurting my teeth at the same price here or there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I see you want to discuss it. Here you go, Lydia Wildeak Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary! In principle, I didn't mean to come to this point, but even though Mrs Škrinjar has just talked about the fact that previous governments have not dedicated anything to student homes, I would just like to remind her once again, because I know that she knows very well that in the Maribor student homes in 2010 to 2018, when I led them, we invested the 20 million euro circus for reconstruction and also for new constructions. I would ask you so politely if you just didn't lie to the lady here. As far as the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme is concerned; yes, this government has decided to frame these underlings, it has done so with all the CAPs, it is also doing so with all the strategies and in a very visual way – also read: it will be known in money – but it advocates private education. Which is why nothing is wrong with the basics, but we have once decided in this country that we will have public education and in LMŠ we advocate public education and we believe that it is necessary to give all students the opportunity to study in public universities for free or without tuition. But if someone doesn't want to, of course they can go to private universities or colleges and pay tuition there too, but then let these private colleges, this private activity they go to, they also pay in private. In fact, it is important why all these faculties of these right-wing Februarys – so to speak in the notes, or all those that this current government does to them, do not establish, say, medical colleges or any engineering colleges. No, they want to educate in sociology and, of course, where business is a little bit bigger. Therefore, I would politely ask that we operate here with accurate numbers and not be misled by those who listen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I asked for a replica myself. I have to explain it anyway, so there's no misunderstanding, and it has nothing to do with the amendments. But the concessions now granted by the Government in the last 12 years are majority concessions for science and technology, including health care precisely due to market needs. Those who fulfilled all the conditions were given equal opportunities to apply. So much so that it won't really turn out to be anything problematic in this. Facts, the evidence is here and we've made decisions about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The replica has a Mojca Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There is something to know about how the state allocates money in the budgets for student homes and how they are institutionalised. In Maribor there are dormitory properties, according to the university, the university is their owner. How to put money there now is one thing, but the other is when homes are independent. And from the budgets, the picture is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Sorry, there's no replica on the replica. But I'll give you my word for the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps it would be good if Mrs. Shriner knew the operation of the Maribor student homes. True, they are also the official property owner of the University of Maribor within the framework of the University of Maribor, but the student homes operate independently. The university does not provide any money for student homes, but money for the construction, reconstruction of student homes during my two mandates was provided exclusively by the state or through the help of an integrated and EU-wide project, and thus obtained money for the construction and reconstruction of these homes. As it is said, from 2010 to 2018, when I ran the student homes in Maribor, we made 20 million euros for the circus of reconstructions and new buildings of student homes, I think the circus has 500 new beds. So much for knowledge and explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[advertising from the hall]] Please raise your hand. I can't hear you. Here you go, a replica of the Mojca Box.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u101	Yes, ma'am, Maribor is one and Ljubljana is the other, isn't it? Take a look at how much funding has been earmarked in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I see that there is more interest in the debate, so I am opening up applications. [[…]] The word is from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u103	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I would point once again to the fact that in fact the Government subsequently proposed or added an article or option, where funding for higher education is also provided. In fact, the resolution subsequently introduced, however, a principle whereby the level of budgetary funding of the higher education public service will be measured according to how much additional money will be received by higher education institutions themselves on the market. And this is the problem that can happen, or this is actually the way to privatisation or private education. And this is a very direct transition, because the matter will be such that the higher education institution, if it does not acquire a lot of funds on the market, will then get less from the budget, if you understand now. Indeed, those who acquire a lot of financial resources on the market will also receive a lot of funding from the budget. And this is the biggest problem that we fear most in Levi, that then there will also be some political maneuvers, that certain higher education institutions will be directed towards certain programs, in view of the interest that will be vested in someone in that environment or in the field. This I would like to point out once again that this is the biggest problem in financing, so that the one who gains the least in the market will also get the least out of the budget. However, those who receive the most resources on the market will also receive the most from the budget. This is the problem with education or funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In the SAB party, we advocate a strong and accessible public education, and we have also collected signatures throughout the country two years ago. However, if we touch on this resolution, of course, a number of questions are being raised and, in fact, in order to better understand the consequences of such financing, which forces universities into the market, we need to look somewhat into the past. At the end of the 1990s, or early in this millennium, he was very disintegrated in Slovenia, mainly in the field of law and economics. Remember when 400, 700 students were enrolled in a parallel study, and then the professors had private businesses and they had this tuition, which was not cheap – 200, 300,000 tolars at the time of the year – simply put it in their pocket and did not go into the public system. Then many of these professors came up with private universities, and these extraordinary students are suddenly gone from public universities, and that's what's going on, and we have to stop it. The fact that you can set up a university today and outsort professors for a couple of hours means that these basic criteria and basic university conditions are provided by the state through the public system, so all of us together, and that's not the correct way. It is also not right that some private universities actually indirectly finance companies from abroad and, in fact, this university or higher education institutions are advertised as if they were educating more staff. The Ministry should also intervene here and, in essence, disclose such matters publicly if there is a hidden financing of certain higher education institutions from abroad for specific needs. Here the university must be neutral; it must also be scientifically excellent as far as this is concerned. However, if we want to bring competition to the university space, I would suggest that a single habilitation should be established at the state level first, but not that new concessions should be granted, but that a single state habilitation should be established, and that a professor, either from Maribor or Primorska or Ljubljana, should be able to teach unlimitedly in all colleges, but not that we have restrictions that prevent it within the university space. However, as far as student homes are concerned, I would like to make it clear that it seems unacceptable to me that anyone can establish a university does not provide student homes. Why don't the privates have student homes? Why can a new study program, a new study course, be set up in Slovenia, without being provided for these students who come, a city in the dormitory. This is the job of the Ministry to prevent these issues, these anomalies and for all students, so for every study programme that has been signed after the statistics, it ensures that they are in the dormitory, otherwise such a program cannot be awarded by the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Just a brief replica of Mr. Reich's MP. Let us not forget the constitutional principle that universities are autonomous. This is also why, particularly through incentives and advocacy, the State intervenes in the way and to the limit to which it is allowed. This is, as a rule, through the criteria it lays down in terms of funding, which it sets out for itself. But the rest is the autonomy of universities and their management.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the Strategic objectives of legislation and funding, as well as the four amendments of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB, as well as the amendment of the Levica Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-chapter of the measures to achieve the strategic objectives in the field of legislation and financing, as well as the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 23 March 2022 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 40. Agenda item — To discuss the response of the Minister for Health of Janez Klukka and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport of Dr. Simone Kęstec to the business question of Lydia the wildling peacemaker in connection with the spiritual health of children and youth. At its 29th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response made by the Minister of Health and Minister of Education, Science and Sport to the question of the delegation of Lidija Dijak Mirnik concerning the mental health of children and adolescents. I give the floor to Lidija Divac Mirnik for further explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the reply of the Minister and Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings from the Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! A good month ago, I addressed the Minister of Education, Science and Sport and the Minister of Health with an oral question on the mental health of children and adolescents. The mental illness of the latter, therefore young people, has been worsening in the last 30 or even more years, and all of this has been further affected by an additional two years of ongoing Coronavirus epidemic, which has only worsened matters and access to these services has been increasing, increasingly difficult. The fact is that measures to prevent the spread of covid infection have increased risk factors for development and to exacerbate mental illness or have affected the fact that these diseases have been very pronounced in individuals. Schools were closed, education was carried out in the distance, social life was limited or stopped, there was uncertainty about health or health or even the loss of loved ones, and many families faced uncertain financial conditions. The measures were considered only in terms of preventing the spread of communicable diseases, but not in terms of the impact of measures on mental health. This also reflected the structure of the expert advisory group for covid-19 at the Ministry of Health, where there were no representatives of psychological, sociological, or similar professions, but only infectologists, and this is also a key error of this government. All of this has affected the rise in emotional and behavioral disorders that children and adolescents face, especially those who do not have so much support in the family or in schools, or those who are worse off in certain new circumstances that have arisen for them, or those who are already prone to mental disorders. The effects on the mental health of individuals will be long - term, and they are increasingly visible today. It's a burning problem that's not being given enough attention. That's what we think of in the LMSH. That is why we have also proposed this meeting, and so do I, the Ombudsman, who, on the occasion of the International Day of Mental Health, pointed out, “the state is looking too slowly for systemic solutions in the field of dealing with children and adolescents with mental health problems, and thus there are missed opportunities to improve the quality of their lives and their inclusion in society”. End of story. In the LMŠ, we do not claim to have done anything to the competent ministries in this area; at the end of last summer, an amendment to the Health Emergency Act was adopted at our initiative, providing budgetary resources for an additional 30 specialisations in the field of clinical psychology. Therefore, at this point, I should point out that today's point is not intended to take political account of the opposition with the coalition or the government, but that it is urgently necessary to discuss the extremely pressing issue and find common solutions. We are all aware of the consequences of the coronavirus on all aspects of our lives, including mental health. It is therefore essential to take a more decisive approach to measures to support children and adolescents and young people with whom we will remedy the damage already done and address the challenges of risk factors for the mental health of children and young people as a result of measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The pressures of children and adolescents are severe, very severe, and they will be worse if we do not act immediately. I'll also introduce later what's going on in our schools. In fact, the information from the field is very scary and I am therefore pleased that today we will discuss the answer to my question of mental health of children and adolescents. I am pleased that the ministers are with us, and I hope that they will remain with us until the end of the debate, because the consequences of the coronavirus on the mental health of all of us, especially children and adolescents, are present, and we must also pay particular attention to this in this House of Democracy. Because it's about the young because it's about our future! We're not gonna be helped by boxers and guns if we don't have mentally healthy children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you, too. I give the floor first to Minister of Health Janez Poklukar for further explanation. Let me tell you both that they have a total of five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Lady Lydia Divac Mirnik! Thank you for the opportunity to speak again about efforts to improve the mental health of children and adolescents. The definition of mental health is that this is a state of well-being in which an individual develops his or her abilities, copes with stress in everyday life and effectively and productive work and contributes to his or her community. Poor mental health means a loss of at least 3 to 4 percent of gross domestic social product and even more, according to some estimates. Mental health is national capital and, as such, needs to be improved by the combined efforts of the entire community of all sectors, including users, their associations and their own groups. In 2018, the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme 2018-2028 or the Mira programme, as you know it, and is short-listed. This is the first strategic document to regulate the field of mental health, which has been for decades, as you said, may have been neglected. I am very pleased that this moment in the conclusion of the coordination between the departments of the proposal of the Second Action Plan for 2022 and 2023, which sets out concrete measures: activities, operators, indicators, hands and, of course, financial resources for their implementation. Reinforced action is indeed necessary and necessary as the covida-19 epidemic has had a negative impact on mental health. This has been particularly exposed to or risked in the area of child and adolescent health. Therefore, improving access to mental health services for children and adolescents is among the priorities of the Ministry of Health. In 2021 we therefore accelerated the establishment of new mental health centres for children and adolescents operating at the primary level of healthcare. At present, it is full of 16 cents and four are in the process of establishing. As a temporary and urgent solution to the lack of clinical psychologists together, of course, with the help of the National Assembly and Members who have actively participated in the drafting of the bill, we have provided specialisation payments for 30 clinical psychologists. The first call for specialization of 10 clinical psychologists was already made by the Ministry of Health last year. In the hospitals in 2021, we recorded a 40% increase in emergency referrals to the Psychiatric Treatment Department for Children and Adolescents as a result of the covida-19 epidemic, so we approved additional hospital treatment programmes and daily centres. At the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana in the framework of the Child Psychiatric Service, then at the University Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana and for pedoshiatric treatments also at the University Clinical Centre Maribor. In the Action Plan for the next two years, which in the final part of the coordination between the departments, as I said, is in addition to expanding the network of mental health centres at the forefront of the prevention programme or programmes: psychosocial support, parenting programmes and programmes especially for vulnerable children and families in order to strengthen their resilience. Programmes must be accessible in schools, health institutions and local communities. The Action Plan will continue to support proven effective programmes addressing children's behavioural and emotional problems. Access to help in phone distress, live and online will be enabled. A key element is also the reduction of stigma, which is very present in the field of mental health. In order to make progress in the field of mental health, there is a need for coherence and coherence between government departments. Participation in the implementation of the Action Plan measures, which I believe will be adopted briefly, and where education is one of the most important sources, is the right way to achieve synergies and achieve a common goal. This is the achievement of good mental health for all, especially the most vulnerable, including children and adolescents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you, too. I'm sorry, Minister, there's no time. You'll get involved in the debate later. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On March 5, 2020, says more than two years ago, our country confirmed the first case of coronary infection, and on March 16, schools and kindergartens closed down for the first time. In these two years, we have faced a health, economic and social crisis. The new virus and the related measures have also had an extremely significant impact on the field of mental health – unfortunately, we can say. This is why today's debate on the mental health of children and adolescents is more than welcome. Of course, the Coronavirus or related measures did not create mental disorders in children and adolescents, but they deepened during the epidemic. As a result of the closure of educational institutions, children and adolescents have lost an important source of support and assistance. Lack of social contacts, activities and interactions, integration into the peer learning groups of the game, as well as the absence of professional workers who represent one of the most important supporting persons in life for children and adolescents, are only a few consequences of the closure of schools and kindergartens. If young children are still developing enough to spend time with their parents only, and adolescents, especially teenagers, need companionship, social contacts, they need to fall in love and go to proms, if I say so. This was taken from them by the epidemic. At the same time, many have awakened feelings of loneliness, abandonment, vulnerability, and pessimism. Domestic violence has increased, and social network exposure has been increased, which has been shown to have a negative impact on the feelings of individuals, especially children and adolescents. They are extremely concerned about the Ombudsman's findings that mental health during the epidemic was not the priority of decision makers. The consequences are obvious. Many school professionals in children and adolescents have noticed an increase in social exclusion, students either shut themselves down, or they want too much association, or they want to show themselves. Therefore, they intervene in very critical methods of expressing themselves or obtaining confirmation from others. It is noticeable that parents do not detect many of the things that students do in secret because it is very hidden. It is noted that at times the students turned more to their parents and friends in case of problems, including teachers at school and counseling. This is now less and problems are much more difficult to solve. The hypersensitivity of pupils to peer responses, changes in habits, patterns of behaviour is also observed, dissipation, apathy and avoidance of obligations. Professionals also report poor hearing. Some children have also become addicted to computer games at this time. The presence of stress and fear among students is increased. Many face an identity crisis. We must not forget the children who lost their loved ones at the time of the epidemic. Measures to control the epidemic have also affected the reduction of movement, which has weakened the mobility of children. The results of the sports card measurements carried out at the Faculty of Sport showed that distance education resulted in 63% more sitting, 30% more physically inactive, and only 7% moderate to intense activity. Over 7 hours of staring at different screens. The proportion of preeminent schoolchildren increased by about 30 percent. Motion efficiency has decreased and about 10 percent of children are addicted to electronic devices. It is also frightening to report a number of health workers who, in their outpatient treatments, report more children and adolescents with anxiety disorders, depressed symptoms and suicidal behaviour, with reduced motivation for school work and activities in general, eating disorders and excessive use of screens. During the epidemic, students were also neglected. They find themselves in a sensitive development period where they experience many life changes, physical changes, seek friendships and partners, gain independence from their parents, seek their career path. According to the results of a study by the Faculty of Education entitled The position of students and UL students in covid-19 conditions, 77% of students faced mental problems during the epidemic. 78 percent of students responded that they had regular or frequent anxiety situations, with about 60 percent having regular or frequent insomnia problems. Seventy-two percent of them had a sense of pressure. A total of 86% of the students said they were not looking for help, even though they wanted it, which was particularly difficult. This shows that accessibility to assistance in our country is a major problem. A major problem in all of this has also been the repeated inadvertent government measures to prevent the spread of the virus. No one has dealt with the consequences of measures on the mental health of individuals; even more, people have been in distress and the government has not listened to them. Her representatives even made fun of them several times. This has also affected the increase in people’s distresses and feelings of infirmity and, as a result, the deterioration of mental health. We must urgently pay sufficient attention to mental health, including not neglecting the fact, which also agrees with the profession that for children and adolescents educational institutions are key protection factors – first support in the line, if we say so. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the closure of schools and kindergartens, advisory services and other educational staff is no longer necessary for the future, and we must seek to increase mental health professionals. Above all, it is the responsibility of the State to provide all young people and their families with free access to assistance when they need it. At LMŠ, we are pleased to discuss this subject today, which is extremely pressing. In doing so, we particularly want constructive discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Covid epidemics and pandemics have severed into our lives and our daily lives. No one imagined that we would be within two years of this virus and, as a result, would suffer such catastrophic consequences. The consequences of covida-19 are not only hospitalisation and death worldwide, the consequences are deeper and concern broader areas. One of the disastrous consequences is the increase in risk factors for the development of mental illness and distress in children and adolescents. The epidemic has certainly spread and accelerated the epidemic of emotional and behavioral disorders, and it has also accelerated the mental distress of our young people. These problems and hardships are particularly evident in vulnerable children and adolescents who do not have a supportive environment in their families and schools, and in those who are already prone to mental disorders. We could say that after the covida-19 epidemic, we are at risk of an epidemic of mental distress and disease, and most likely this epidemic is already present in society. While the government considers that it reacted in a timely and correct manner at the time of the epidemic. At the time of the epidemic, he believes that it has been well taken care of for young people and that the measures have been well thought out and carefully planned. Is that true? Just one piece of information tells us that the situation is a matter of real concern. In 2020, there were about 15 per cent more suicide attempts than in the year before, and in the same year, access to psychiatrists and professional assistance was significantly reduced. Much has been said about the subject of mental distress and the mental health of youths. At the proposal of our Youth Forum, we also called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Health on why, at the time of the covida-19 epidemic, competent people do not pay sufficient attention to the epidemic of mental distress for children and adolescents in Slovenia. We are confident that this meeting has exposed the issue and helped the authorities to find the right direction and how to prevent the mental distress and disturbances of young people and our young ones. The Government or Minister of Health, Mr Poklukar, and Mrs Kustec, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, have pointed out in response to the question raised by the colleague of Lydia some measures that are and still resolve the problem and the situation that has arisen, but unfortunately this is not enough. The measures taken to contain the virus have often been taken quickly and recklessly. However, measures aimed at resolving the situation have been introduced too late in our view. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand that the situation at the time of covida-19 was difficult and that certain measures had to be taken quickly, but we cannot possibly agree that there has been enough in the field of mental health and prevention of the mental distress of young people. The situation is disturbing. We fear that the situation will deteriorate further, or the consequences will be long - term. This government, and the next one, will certainly have to pay a lot of attention and energy in solving the problems that have arisen, so that the situation will improve and that our young people will have a bright and healthy future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Ms Nataša Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! According to the definition of the World Health Organisation, health means mental, physical, emotional and social well-being. We cannot and must not reduce health to naked medicine, but it must be understood as a political task to address social inequalities. The OECD notes that the incidence of social inequalities has deepened strongly and that the consequences of the epidemic are most felt by the weakest. The mental distress caused by the covid-19 epidemic was estimated by the OECD to be the most felt by those with the least stable jobs, lower education, lower incomes and, in particular, young people. Data from Belgium, France and the United States for March 2021 show that the presence of anxiety disorders and depression among young people between 30 and 80 percent was higher than in the general population. Slovenia, of course, is no exception, but it must be added that the situation was bad before the epidemic itself. Studies by the National Institute for Public Health have already identified and warned before the epidemic that the existing public health network is not in line with the actual needs of children and adolescents in the field of mental health. Between 2008 and 2015, the number of treatments of children and adolescents due to mental and behavioural disorders at secondary level increased by an alarming 71%. The use of drugs to treat mental and behavioural disorders increased by 48% during this period. Of course, we're talking mostly about antidepressants. Already in 2014, over 50 percent of 15-year-old girls were convinced that they were overweight. And yes: We have already met death in Slovenia because of eating disorders in adolescents. Social and social differences in the mental health of parents are also increasingly reflected in children. In children and adolescents treated for mental health problems, the Podrav region is particularly vulnerable. There the number of treatments is 2.6 times higher than the Slovenian average. That this is also one of the regions with the highest unemployment rate, of course there is no chance. However, the policy has not acted on the basis of these alarming data. It maintains that the Mental Health Act has been adopted and also argues that in 2018 the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme was adopted, but no law and no resolution can eliminate the growing social disparities or correct the absence of public network planning and mental health services. There's a shortage of personnel, even clinical psychologists. In such a situation, the epidemic simply meant a drop over the edge. In 2020, only Pediatric Clinic in Ljubljana is 50 percent more children and adolescents after attempted suicide than it was a year ago. The same increase in treatment also applies to eating disorders. Restrictive measures have also deepened social inequalities in our country, resulting in an increasingly poor mental health situation for children. Today, the discussion is likely to be about what someone could do, what someone did, and why he did nothing different. The Minister praised the establishment of the Council of the Government for Mental Health a long time ago, and I wonder how it is possible that the Council of the Government of Mental Health started working only in July 2021, three years after the adoption of the Resolution on the National Programme of Mental Health. It would be even more reasonable to ask yourself something else — what mental health means in the first place. In the European Union, as many as 27% of the adult population live with mental health problems. Increasing mental health problems is a trend recorded worldwide. Despite alarming numbers, however, the intimate link between mental health and the general social conditions in which we live remains hidden. We act as if the problems have fallen from the sky, and we will eliminate them with tons of pills and hordes of psychiatrists. So I ask myself this question: Why has it become normal for people to work from morning to evening; why can’t some in their middle years take a breath in the service for indefinite periods and tremble at their own existence; why do we read official e-mails at weekends, and why are our superiors always available; why do we accept daily pressures, abnormal stress and anxiety as normal, and why do we, after all, pretend that none of this affects our children? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the NSI Group will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the last two years, there have been many contributions in various media on the subject of mental distress and mental health for children and adolescents. We also held several thematic meetings of the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Committee on Education on the theme of mental distress for children and adolescents in Slovenia. Many questions have been asked, as well as legal solutions adopted, with a view to providing relief and assistance to all who need it. Clinical centres have been writing – and now we are tracking the announcement – that they have long gone beyond the extraordinary increase in hospitalization. We read - quote: “We have only recently received children and adolescents who want to take their own lives. In UKC Maribor, where young people from Štajerski and Prekmurje come mainly, they were examined in April 2021 in the emergency infirmary 246. This was 83 percent more than in March 2021 when 134 were examined. Dr. Hojka Gregorič Kumperšek, a pedopsychiatrician at UKC Maribor, said that “the children told stories that parents at home are fighting and fighting that the police have to intervene, some have returned home over the holidays, but because of the impossible conditions they have returned to the hospital prematurely, there are more suicidal thoughts, suicide attempts, dependence on computer games and eating disorders.” End of quote. When reading such statements and findings, the question arises on its own whether it is really the fault of the coronary crisis. With regard to the mental health of children and adolescents, we need to shed light on the causes we often forget. In general, we share mental problems in two sources, endogenouss and psychogenics. The first is an internal or biological source, schizophrenia, manic depression, most of the time a hereditary genetic transfer. However, psychogeneous sources are related to external factors, which means that they are independent of biological factors and are entirely psychological, for example, unhealthy relationships, an unregulated family environment, unimaginable life, addiction, unhealthy lifestyles, feelings of unlovingness, danger, inadmissibility. One of the studies of the National Institute of Public Health in 2021 shows that 89% of students are depressed and anxious. More alcohol abuse and psychoactive substances. Every fourth student thinks about suicide, more and more mental distress, fear, despair, depression. These are the facts that students report. During the time of the coronary crisis, due to the online learning process, and in particular due to the increasing control and control of parents, there has been a very worrying increase in screen addiction. I would like to point out that the main reason is not the use of technology for the work and learning process, but, above all, that children and adolescents are free time, as well as the time they are learning themselves, are living in front of the screens, which is harmful for health itself and also for mental health. We all know that for them, the best movement is in the fresh air, outside, in nature, in the company of parents, friends, or reading books. Psychologists, pedopsychiatrists find that in fact the problem is that parents don't have control. Too often, because of permissive behavior, children are left to themselves. Many children do not know how to help themselves out of addiction because the screens are too powerful to resist. After returning to school, knowledge testing was at the forefront, which is completely professional and meaningful and also expected from the school, as it is necessary to complete the school year. For many, this represents enormous stress and terrible hardships, which was confirmed at the meeting of the Committee on Education in February 2021 by Dr. Maja Drobnič Radobuljac, when she showed a graph of hospitalisations in the unit for intensive children and adolescents psychiatry and parallels in relation to school activities in the field of knowledge testing, as well as a fall in hospitalisation during summer holidays. Today, there has been a focus on risk factors. Attention has increased in risk groups: poorer, mental disorders, unregulated family conditions, family violence, school failure. Mental health services have increased. School advisory services were also strengthened. Monitoring the deterioration of social conditions. Social protection programmes, mental health programmes - 25 programmes worth €3.3 million, 170 social security programmes amounting to €16.5 million - have been strengthened. As a result of the increase in needs in 2021, social security funds increased by almost EUR 1 million per year. 25 programmes totalling 1.3 million euros were co-financed for social security programmes in 2021 for children and adolescents. The main objective of the programmes is to strengthen the social inclusion and strengthening of the social network of children and adolescents, to provide support for the active resolution of various pressures and problems, to strengthen social competences, to improve the quality of leisure time, to improve learning habits and attitudes towards school obligations. Some programs also offer psychosocial counselling to children and adolescents. There have been many measures both by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs in the area of assistance to vulnerable groups, multi-generational centres, family support programmes, parental empowerment programmes, projects to help the most vulnerable groups of the population due to the covid-19 epidemic, also by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, provision of additional resources for the employment of professional staff; and by the Ministry of Health: additional programmes for clinical psychologists, pedopsychiatric treatments, increased admission to medical faculties, the establishment of a mental health centre. Finally, I can say that the coronary crisis has exposed all the wrong decisions and the failure of past left governments. Efforts for a healthy community, society, young people and families must be a priority for every government and every society, every community. The crisis revealed where mistakes were made in the past. Unfortunately, specialists, clinical psychologists, pedopsychiatrists, professional colleagues cannot be educated in months or years, but this is a multi-year project. We also want all the following governments to lead such a policy. I believe in solidarity, affordable health care, a just and safe country. I want children and young people to be brought up for independence and responsibility, but we need to train them to be creative, to work, to live a full life and to face the challenges of life with courage. Life is beautiful and unique. Keep it that way in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u120	The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mrs Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This is the text of the reference that we have already proposed in the SAB Group on 1 February 2020 to convene an emergency meeting of the Education Committee, since there have already been first warnings at that time that the changed circumstances related to the covid epidemic, and in particular the closure of schools and the isolation of children, have already resulted in many and very adverse consequences for our children. We have already begun to call on the Government and also the Minister to take this aspect into account and take this aspect very seriously when deciding each time on the closure of schools and when taking other measures related to the epidemic. Since then, so long ago, experts have begun to point out the latter: that more and more children and adolescents are having problems and suffering from mental distress, anxiety and depression are emerging, that among high school students the number of hospitalized persons after suicide has increased by as much as 30 percent, that children are becoming addicted to the computer, that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get away from them, that they sit on the computer for eight hours and more, and that they also fall asleep in front of the phone screen in the evening; that there is an increasing number of problematic impulsive behaviors of children, and that some children are becoming increasingly aggressive and angry at each other; that children are losing concentration for school work and motivation for it. Most importantly, how many children miss association with their peers and how necessary it is for their development to replace this association and to offer many forms of assistance. The right of children to education should be first and foremost in the hierarchy of our rights, we warned then. During the growing-up period, the school is a meeting place with others, a place for learning, cooperation, socialisation and maturation. It is also a place to confirm, endure stress and learn how to solve problems, learn how to solve conflicts. All these skills can't be developed by children at home. If we add to this the nervous parents who have been under stress, who have experienced an epidemic, social problems and so on, the situation is even clearer. By then, many experts, not only at special institutions and public institutions that deal with children’s help, but also at schools, professional workers, or peers, had pointed out that they were already immediately observing changes in children. One of them said: “I am most affected by an empty view in the eyes of the children when you see that he is desperate and that he does not see a way out of the situation and wonders when this will end. When those true tears come, the tears that seek help hurt you greatly." These are the words of Defectist Xenia Funa, who teaches at the Centre for Communication, Hearing and Speech in Portorož, and also offers assistance to coastal students. Those who have the most distress do not expose themselves, do not know how to express it, and how to help themselves have been told by another expert. Their parents have problems, too, and that's hard to talk about. When you're a parent and you watch a kid get depressed and you don't see a way out, you're sick and we need to find each other's help. Experts also pointed to computer addiction. This addiction, of course, added to the fact that students and students actually had all the classes in front of computers, at a distance, and that they lacked classical instruction. Instead of at least spending time on recreation, reading, rest, and so forth after the end of their studies, many continued to watch the screens, both on television and on the phone, and to develop severe forms of addiction; addictions that experts say will be difficult to resolve in the future. But the worst part is that neither parents nor experts could help their children, even if they wanted to, with expertise, because these were simply not enough. All experts available in schools in this regard were less accessible or more difficult to reach, and experts, clinical psychologists and others were already in session and should have waited for a year and a half for clinical psychologists and other experts to be treated. Therefore, all the praises of this government, what has been done and what has been taken care of, over, because we are still, for two years almost after the epidemic started, experts warn that the consequences that our children have experienced during this period - we are talking today only about the mental consequences, not those of reducing mobility, reducing physical readiness and so on - that these are problems that will be their true strength and their true scale may only show when these young adults are adults. We already live in societies, not only in America, but also in Slovenia, where there is a very high percentage of adults with mental disorders, adults living on tranquilizers and antidepressants, and experts have pointed out, the number of such people with such pressures will increase. And despite the fact that virtually all the opposition parties have been alerting us all this time, and the trends that are still coming, I must say that, despite the praise of the coalition Members, we still do not see in the SAB party that something insane will change in this area. On the other hand, the coalition introduces some strange vouchers; strange in the sense that we don't even know what they want to achieve with them – counseling before entering into the marriage. I don't know if they're going to teach young people how to get married properly, or how to raise children properly, or how to teach them the right religion. I don't know what the point is. Perhaps we would prefer to devote this money to what we have asked the SAB to do in the budget amendments. With two amendments to each budget, we wanted to allocate additional funds for individual programmes and to help advisory workers and other experts. I will read from one of the amendments the main part of the explanation: "The amendment is based on the initiative of counsellors and other mental health experts, which has been pointing out for years the increased needs for their services and the objectives of the Action Plan of the National Mental Health Programme 2021-2023, which provides for the strengthening of the school advisory service to support children and adolescents with minor mental health problems, their parents and the advice and support of teachers in this area. The National Mental Health Programme Action Plan envisages strengthening the staff capacity of advisory services throughout the vertical region, both in schools, primary schools and secondary schools, and activities aimed at strengthening advisory services in secondary schools. Due to the severe increase in mental health problems of children and adolescents in the environment, education and education of all ages, and due to the lack of consulting staff across the vertical range, it is also imperative to increase the number of counselling workers in primary schools and to strengthen external institutions with experts who can help either in the needs of schools or in individual counselling and intervention in the event of the worst pressures or even violence. There is an ever-increasing incidence of emotional and behavioural problems, which are generating the need for additional support for the students and other teachers at school, in order to identify and inform the experts in time for these severe hardships.” In this way, we could have prevented a lot of tragedy. If I only talk about the worst part of the situation as it is, for example, when my son's school was lost a little girl who took her life a few months ago. These amendments and three others were very detailed. It was quite clear that this is a matter where we really need reinforcements in view of the situation. Unfortunately, neither coalition has found the strength nor the need to support these amendments and to provide these additional funds. This is how we welcome today's debate in the Sab Party. I understand it mainly in the direction that once again from these benches, from the bench of the highest legislative body in the Republic of Slovenia, we appeal to the Ministry and the Minister to do everything in its power - now and also the next minister, who will come with the next government - in the direction of solving this problem. The situation is complex, though it is difficult to find these experts, but if we do not start to solve it, it will become increasingly complex and increasingly insurmountable. Let me say that in court for many years there has been a problem with the lack of experts of the same type who urgently need them in family disputes procedures, in child allocation procedures, in child abduction procedures and so on. A systematic approach to solving this problem is thus essential. For the end of all, there are two more children in the lesson and memory. The first is a 14 - year - old boy who says: “I was so excited about high school that I could get new friends. In elementary school, I have not been able to make more permanent contacts, because I am a more shy sort. Six weeks in school wasn't enough for me. Now I'm sitting alone in front of the screens again. I'm quiet and so lonely. I don't care about grades or personal hygiene. I just wish I could sleep all day. On the Internet, I discovered a group of peers talking about suicide. I wonder. And a little girl, 15 years old: “Every day, one and the same routine, without beginning and without end. [[…]] I'm not the same anymore. It all made sense. I don't like that at all. The world has become so unrealistic. I have a lot of questions in my head, fears, I'm choking, I don't feel like working for school or relaxing, I'm so alone, I don't feel like anything anymore. I’m Thinking ” [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u122	Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues welcome again! Today's debate on the response of the two ministers to the mental health of children and adolescents will be one of the most important at this regular meeting of the National Assembly, as well as the wider society. We are at a time when the mental distress of citizens and citizens and children and adolescents are particularly vulnerable. The increase in the burden of mental disorders is probably due to an epidemic of coronary disease that we will not be able to avoid completely, but it is responsible for us to be aware of this and to do everything in our power to respond with discretion in the coming post-epidemic months in order to minimise the consequences, or to be able and able to cope with by means of our actions. Therefore, it makes sense that today we are not overly accusing each other, but we are listening to a realistic assessment of the situation and offer smart solutions. The undeniable fact is that the closure of schools or educational institutions has had a negative impact on children and adolescents. I am sure that the Minister and Minister of Education also agree, because the epidemic has had a profound impact on the mental health of children and adolescents. This somehow coincides with the general poor mental health of our citizens and citizens, which we are reminded of practically all the research and studies carried out in the last period. Indeed, it is not too much to point out that the National Mental Health Programme was adopted only in 2018 after more than a decade of coordination and that the regulatory framework in this area, despite the adoption of the resolution, is still lacking. The waiting species in clinical psychologists, psychologists and pedopsychiatrics, which were unacceptablely long before the epidemic, are also prolonged. Distance learning, limiting social life, uncertainty about personal health and the health of others, and uncertain financial conditions in many families are all factors that have had a significant impact on the changed lives of families and children and adolescents. Several have lost important support for adults or peers, as well as the protective factors that enabled them to develop. Of course, the biggest setbacks were those who had had difficult access to preventive activities prior to the epidemic, unfortunately. Of course, before the epidemic, experts have already noticed a trend in mental disorders in both the general population and adolescents and a growing shortage of prevention and treatment services. If we do not take appropriate and timely action, these needs will only increase in the future. As many warn at the end of the covida-19 epidemic, the mental health epidemic will not automatically cease, so it is extremely important, unless it is almost decisive that schools, kindergartens and other educational institutions are never closed again. We probably cannot remain indifferent to the fact that our largest pediatric clinic in Ljubljana has adopted 30% more children than a year before because of an attempted suicide. It is also worth considering that in the coming months, especially during the summer holidays, attempts are being made to make up for lost compensation in order to organise additional education and camps with which children and young people with disabilities could be able to provide adequate support and assistance by autumn or by the new school year. Dear Minister, the mental health of our children and adolescents, as well as of all remaining citizens and citizens, is not good. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we expect that, in today's debate, they will offer answers to the question of what has already been done and, above all, what measures will we take in the future on this issue as a country. That is why I call for careful and deliberate action and support for the mental health of children and young people. Otherwise, all of us will fall on another mature exam together, and we will have a headache from the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Škrinjar will be the last to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, colleagues and all those who follow us! The mental health of children The National Institute for Public Health systematically monitors and notes that the mental health of children depends largely on their individual situation, then their situation in the family, from their microenvironment, which represents a growing school field, as well as the general social situation. Many times it is a school crisis, whether success or relationships in school, sometimes peer violence, a primary cause of the deterioration of the mental health of children. In this way, the National Institute for Public Health or NIJZ published a publication in 2017 detailing the mental health of children and the deterioration of their health from 2008 to 2015. He pointed out that the consumption of drugs for mental illness increased by 48 per cent between 2008 and 2015 and by 73 per cent among adolescents between 15 and 19. We know that all of us have been marked by the lives of the covida pandemic, no one has remained unharmed, but the most vulnerable are groups of those who are not or are not equipped enough to cope with their difficulties. And it is clear that what I have already stressed is this deterioration in the mental health of children, which has been shown in the NIJS survey already 2017, that this has become even more superficial at the time of the epidemic. Social work centres are responsible for the resolution of family pressures, and management, support services and classrooms are responsible for the resolution of school pressures. Thus, the closure of schools has turned mental health degradation into a family environment. The Government has therefore set up a Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Mental Health and established mental health centres and issued a call for funding of ten specialisations of clinical psychologists, increased pedopsychiatric capacity by 30 per cent in the UKV Maribor and added 120 additional treatments in the field of pedopsychiatry in the UKC Ljubljana. At the Ministry of Education and Sport, 185 additional advisory posts were allocated in primary schools and 17 in adapted schools and 49 advisory staff in secondary schools. They updated guidelines for the work of advisory services in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. They complemented the vocational education or training programme of teachers and educators, where they could be trained in the field of mental health of children. Therefore, for the mental health of children it is clear that it has been reversed in the past decade, but it must be said that the co-vid group, the expert group, has also been involved with NIJS all the time, so he has had information and information on how he is actually involved in the mental health of children and has also been involved in professional decision-making. Thus, we can believe that, with the professional support of NIJZ, the measures were also professionally guided among the co-workers. We believe that both ministries, namely the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Health, have made a satisfactory effort to reduce the mental health problems of children. Undoubtedly, it will be necessary to further strengthen good relations in the family and to find ways and ways of supporting the country and the local community to the goal that the family will be primarily a safe and supportive environment for the most vulnerable children and that the content of knowledge of the protection of mental health will continue to be included in the training programmes, that is to say education, once teachers and educators are already at work, as well as that these content will also be part of the study of teaching professions. This is increasingly necessary, and I believe that both ministries are aware of this and are also thinking and proposing actions that will enable this, including changes in the programmes in this work. I think that the Minister and the Minister have answered this question appropriately by Ambassador Divojak Mirnik and that both ministries have responded accordingly. Of course, we expect further creative action by ministries in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members in general. Ms Lidija Divac Mirnik asked for the floor before opening the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we have warned more or less of the same things, because of course we are aware of the problem that is currently in place here today. And it's very up-to-date. Nevertheless, I would like to stress a few more things. I'll probably repeat something that's already been said and that's not why. We have enough time, and it is important to hear more about this really burning darkness here today. In fact, at the time of the epidemic, what has also become the cause of the rise in mental disorders? Above all, this instability, uncertainty, inconsistency and unpredictability of life. These were the main reasons why these mental disorders increased, even in those who were previously uncertain before the epidemic. Of course, it was not just and purely because of coronaryism, that is what we all know, and that is what I have explicitly stressed in my presentation of the introductory. However, it must be said that children and adolescents need different things during these different periods. And certainly in this growing up, they need continuity, predictability, and clear limits, which, of course, has greatly disrupted the epidemic. Therefore, it must be a key task for all of us to recognize these mental distresses and, of course, to provide assistance to all who need it now and in the future. This is a basic objective, as well as today's core priority, to say what we must do next. It is crucial that the closure of educational institutions no longer take place. At the time of the closing-up of the schools, I have warned about this all the time, I have asked definitely the most questions sent on this subject, but the ministry has decided as it has decided. It saddens me that those warnings we gave back then were not heard or responded to and were closed. All right, now the secretary's gonna tell me again that they weren't closed. True, they were not closed, there was long-distance education, but this long-distance education has caused a very large number of difficulties in children. By the way, all we talk about here today is children and adolescents, but we also forget the difficulties of teachers. In those days, too, teachers experienced very great hardships. Yet, if we are still talking about those teachers who had been educated from a distance at home, they were parents themselves, and they had to help their children learn from a distance, we know, and we can imagine that they were also in trouble with teachers. And even now, teachers are experiencing pressures and hardships when they have to help their children, because these pressures are now so much more and it is completely forgotten. That is why it seems important to me today to note that teachers too are in distress, and teachers also need help to help children, because they are the ones who spend eight hours a day with children. A lot of parents with kids don't spend that much time. So, what's the key to this? Firstly, it must no longer be possible to close educational institutions. Secondly, it is necessary to introduce proven effective development and prevention programmes and activities that will be accessible to all young people, and this must be done immediately. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we also need NGOs – I will also present the response of some NGOs later. For I have invited schools, various institutions, organizations to tell me what is going on in the field and when a person is reading it, you are actually very worried. That is why we need to support non-governmental organisations, not misrepresent them and take money from them, as this government does. I am very sorry that I have to say this here, but I can list NGOs that are also in the time of the co-vide, and also today, and will continue to do so if, of course, they do not go out early because this government has decided to do so, they are dealing with mental health. I'm not going to mention some of the young people; I'm going to list them; I'm going to list some of the young people; I'm going to list them; I'm going to name some of the young people; I'm going to name some of the young people; I'm going to name some of the young people; I'm going to name some of the young people; I'm going to name some of them; I'm going to write some of the languages; I'm going to write some of the languages; I'm going to write some of the languages; I'm going to write them; I'm going to talk to SOS, a phone for women and children – violence victims; I'm going to phone advice for victims of violence; I'm going to the Association for non-violent communication; [[…]] In short, there's a huge number of NGOs that have played a role, and we forget about them very much, because a lot of these bad things have prevented them from going to different hospitals, different official psychosocial institutions, or whatever, because they didn't need to say those professional aids, official-formal ones, because they've done some things before. It is therefore necessary to give them recognition and support in their further work, because we will need them, and we very much need them. Then the third time — what is the key to the future? Yes, it is necessary to strengthen educational staff and advisory services in order to meet the increased need for psychosocial assistance for both young people and their families. In her position, I think Masha pointed out that parents are also facing problems. Of course, parents were afraid too! And all the communication that came from the government to say this military rhetoric, people were simply afraid, even in that first wave. People didn't know how to react and then, instead of people calming down, they were getting more and more scared. And then those repressive measures that were in place and, of course, that only deepened the pressures, including the hardships of the parents. He also lost many at the time, or he did not know what would happen to his job. And all these things, of course, also affect children in families. Absolutely! Children were at home because families were sealed in hermetically in apartments, and some even in very small apartments there were many children who didn’t even have their own room. And these hardships were even greater for the children. So we really need to focus on this right now, now a lot of attention. Fourthly — What Is Needed to Do Next? There is a need to increase the number of mental health professionals: psychiatrists, pedopsychiatrists, clinical psychologists, psychologists and, of course, checked psychotherapists both in health care, education and elsewhere. Because, and we all agree with this here that it is necessary to do so, there are waiting periods and accessibility to the necessary professional assistance absolutely too long. If some, not research, specific facts show that after six months of waiting for urgent psychosocial assistance, then you know that things are not well arranged somewhere and of course they need to be changed and they need to be changed immediately, now, and so this meeting too, so this debate also needs to be changed. Five to say what needs to be done immediately. Accessibility to help all young people and their families must be ensured immediately. Schools are a supportive environment, all school counselors and not just counsellors, including all the staff, in fact, because other professionals in schools, cooks, cleaners, all of them have contact with children, they are talking to them, and they are also in some way their supportive environment, and they also need help and listen to them. What was this effect of the epidemic on mental health, what actually happened? Definitely for islands and adolescents, the biggest problem was the closure of educational institutions and the loss of children's assistance and support. There has been a lack of involvement in peer groups, learning, play. These educational institutions are a space of social activity, interaction also creating all aspects of self-image, learning skills, coping with different living circumstances and problems. During education, children establish, maintain personal relationships, develop social identity and a sense of belonging, observe, and follow the standards of behaviour as expressed by others. All these things are the ones that the kids didn't have at the time of school. This expertise was not available, so they found themselves in distress, and many times they have, even young people, what dilemmas they would like to talk to, but they can’t talk to their parents, and this is what teachers, classmates, are doing in schools, and there were no professional colleagues. The different conditions of distance education were also those that reflected hardship. Some kids, I remember talking to teachers, weren't responding after 14 days, three weeks, until the teacher called and asked what was wrong, what was going on, and then they found out they didn't have Internet, or they found out they didn't have a computer and so on. I'm not going to repeat all this because there's been a lot of talk about this. However, I think it is important that we do this to understand why it is so important that we are aware of the damage this closure of educational institutions has done to students, young people. Unforeseeable measures that have taken place. For a while the school was open, then closed, then closed for 14 days, then all those models I understand, I can understand that you've just reacted the way you did at the Ministry, especially for education, but I don't understand why you didn't hear many well-meaning suggestions at the time. [[...]] But okay. This uncertainty, which occurred every day, put everything in trouble — both children and parents, and, as it were, teachers, whom we often forget. The change in family routine that happened in families was also the one that affected the hardships. For example, more time has been spent by children on social networks, it has really started to play games, but since we all probably have a home – those who have children about that old, in primary schools, teenagers, at least I noticed it at home, we have seen that yes, because what was needed is quickly done in 10, 15, 20 minutes, and the teacher is still listening, but as the end of that zoom, I am going to the games. I just have so many old kids at home that it was very up to date with us. These problems with this organisation of school work, including the organization of the day, including changing sleep time, and school time free time, are all changes in family routines that have had a major impact. After thinking, okay, now the school is far away, but they will at least go out to the playground and at least those who have been used to some sport – my two, say, four times a week – will be able to do it all. No, but it's closed, the playgrounds are closed, those tapes are wrapped around, and the kids aren't even allowed to go to football. Now that this man is looking back — to her; but these were all the measures that occurred because of someone’s decision to rule. And these were also measures that were wrong if we want to admit it or not. Then, as a result of all these decrees, which then proved to be something illegal, of course, increased loneliness. Self-isolation has, of course, awakened feelings of loneliness, abandonment, including vulnerability and pessimism, because, finally, we are people of social beings who need to be close to each other. Of course, not all of them in the same way, but still. And this non-exploration of schools, kindergartens, and then all of these obstetric, leisure activities that limited movement and association with peers. In the final stages, association with an extended family, with family friends, was limited. If you remember, if we wanted to go to another congregation, we had to have a certificate. All of this has only deepened all these mental distresses. Then there was a lot of family violence. In fact, the pandemic has actually increased domestic violence and, above all, violence against women and girls, which is especially difficult for me as a woman. Of course, there have been many reasons. According to police figures, nearly a thousand and 500 cases of domestic violence were dealt with in 2020, 10 per cent more than a year earlier. Nor should we forget that this domestic violence has, of course, affected children in one way or another. Social networks that we know have become poison — in the notes — and this exposure to social networks has a strong negative impact on feelings even during the pandemic. Those who have spent more time on these social networks are now more or less on this TikTok experience more fear, anger, feeling powerlessness, anxiety, and depression. There, on these various networks, this pandemic was also quite a topic, and this virus was read and watched by various press outlets and so on. It just deepened, deepened, deepened all their problems. Then, of course, the situation in Slovenia, which is alarming, about suicide attempts, which have increased by 30 percent among young people, I will no longer talk. In Slovenia, in April 2021, all beds were occupied in the pedopsychiatric wards, only those urgent checks were carried out, and only those children and adolescents who wanted to take their lives were admitted. So this is where this manna of this professional staff really showed up, which could help the kids right now. Also from December 2020 to May 2021, the number of outpatient treatments increased by 15 per cent each month. The peak was reached in May 2021 when, compared to the pre-eminence period, patients had a 200- to 300-percent increase in outpatient and hospital treatment. These are alarming data, which, of course, must be dealt with immediately. It is also surprising that the average age of children hospitalized with mental disorders was 15 years in the spring of 2021. The average age of a child who has been hospitalized was 15 years, and we know that at that time, of course, adolescents are the most sensitive, they have to carry out many of their developmental tasks, which, of course, are not the most affected in this adolescent. And then in an epidemic situation, this is the solution to these internal pressures that adolescents already have as such, of course, are even more difficult. The key to the deterioration of mental health at this time, including the closure of schools and the closure of these playgrounds, as I said before, was to reduce the movement and restriction of association, and all this, of course, led to depression, anxiety and all that we have already said. Maybe there's just a few more data here -- because I'm gonna be running out of time -- about waiting hours in pedosatricians. The waiting period for the initial treatment of pedopsihiatr, depending on the degree of urgency, is several months, from 4 to 6 months. Waiting years. In clinical psychologists, it is also necessary to wait for a first examination for two years, depending on the degree of urgency, but with a very fast medical guide within fourteen days or three weeks, it is virtually impossible to reach a clinical psychologist. And that's the information we need to worry about. I am sure that now both ministers will tell me a number of solutions, which they have also found at this time, and I want us to be aware of this and that we are indeed having an in-depth discussion about this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate of the Members, the Minister wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Just the continuation of what the Minister also presented in the opening position, from the perspective of what we have also activated as a direct response to dealing with the consequences of covid period in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. In doing so, I would like to point out once again that, in fact, in those most difficult periods of dealing with the Coronavirus, our main guide was the search for the space that will ensure the most optimal health recovery in the safe environment. And that these periods were changing, they changed at the final stage also because knowledge and the response to the covid virus itself over time also strengthened. Then we also had the right answers, such as in addition to preventive responses and self-protection, and in this connection also the protection of others against the possibility of infection; then the vaccine, of course, before testing and then self-testing. All of this has allowed us the state in which we are today, when the virus is still with us, when we still interact with it, but because of our responses it is in a weaker phenomenon. This enables us, on the one hand, not to have such a burden on the health system as we had at the beginning, and at the same time, of course, it also allows us to go safely, with the knowledge and experience we have gained, to go to kindergartens, schools, including colleges in the way we do today and as we do – I believe that all of us – also wanted: again without masks, but with some responsible relationship. Now perhaps just another broader view of the issue of psychosocial problems and pressures in schools. The school has always been, not only now, but all the time, a space that has, as a rule, already represented some sort of tribulation. This, when we look at data over time, shows above all the interesting year 2019, when this increase in pressures experienced by children of both sexes in connection with school space was extremely high, and then in 2020 and 2021 it also fell significantly despite these covid conditions. Here is a reliable challenge for the competent authority to find out what was really going on during that period. So the school is, on the one hand, in those periods before the covide, a reliable space that caused hardship on its own, and the covid just turned the board. In fact, he showed that at the same time the school can be a place that alleviates psychosocial distress. Now I am sorry, too, because perhaps I still have a very emotional approach to these situations in Ukraine, which I myself have personally seen, what is happening to the Ukrainian school-bound children who are here with us, is more than a fact, also visible to the layman of the eyes, that the school is that kindergartens are spaces that will alleviate these psychosocial hardships that we cannot even imagine, which we can hardly really see as being able to appear in an individual. Yes, it is. In this light I also want to say in general or in general: you know, these psychosocial pressures are very large, they are different types and they activate different situations. We, for example, have been recording in this connection a number of hardships that occur through violence, different types and different forms of violence in the school space all the time. And all of this, of course, needs to be paid attention. When we were paying attention to these psychosocial distresses directly in connection with the covido, this is what is the central theme of today's conversation – and also one of the pressures and situations to which we must also respond in the educational space, we have activated a series of both programming and direct financial measures so that we can mitigate these difficulties in relation to the covido or as a result of the period of education. When we activated this, of course, we followed the best practices, the professional examples that colleagues from abroad presented to us both at European Union level and in these broader international professional circles, such as Unesco in particular, such as the World Health Organization, the Council of Europe. We have followed all of this, as well as their research, their data, which, by the way, show that, compared to other countries at this momentous time and due to timetime, some significant psychosocial distress has not occurred in Slovenian children. Now, if you'll allow me to just summarize those key measures that we have activated in the Ministry of Health and in good and close cooperation with the Ministry of Health and NIJ in connection with the fight against the virus and in connection with the psychosocial pressures of children in schools. What we have done first is that we have activated a number of preventive and preventive measures provided by school advisory services. In this connection, we have, as we have, I think, already heard in one of the positions, 185 additional positions of counsellors in primary schools and beyond in secondary schools. There, the number of high-school counsellors compared to the previous one, which is said to have increased by about 29 percent prior to the apparent period. Thus, 29 percent of the more advisory staff can now be employed in secondary schools. We have also amended the current Regulation on Normatives and Standards in this connection, so that somehow we have now financed and financed 49 advisory workers more than in the previous year, which means, in a financial sense, almost EUR 2 million more in financial support for these purposes. We have also, in order to facilitate the work of advisory workers, or, for example, to ease administrative procedures and administrative work, e-mail all those key tasks. In particular, those involved in this large-scale enrolment process in secondary schools are in student homes. Thus, we also had a direct desire to provide help here. We then revised the programme guidelines for advisory services, so that we also placed in the annual work plan of the Slovenian Institute of Education for this year a special task of redesigning the programme guidelines for advisory services in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools which have not changed since the adoption of the 1999 General Education Council. Thus, we are also setting new guidelines here, conceptually, modernly designed, which follow social changes and, above all, prescribe a thorough expert review of updates in line with newer knowledge, experience, and certainly important work of this period. Then a number of additional trainings were also published in this year's training catalogue, the so-called CATIS catalogue, you can find 19 different programmes of additional vocational training on mental health. In other words, this means almost 400 educational hours, over 700 planned participants for these programmes. Within the framework of the broader theme of socio-social competences, there are 264 programmes or programmes for around 10,000 participants in the current KatIS training offer. Then we also called for a special targeted – a research project entitled Monitoring and improving individual assistance to students in a visible and post-conceived situation in the field of anxiety, overcoming the feeling of anxiety. The aim of this project is to develop a model for measuring the anxiety of students in carrying out activities where they experience increased anxiety, with a view to adapting activities and providing individual assistance that reduces such anxiety feelings. I have also said that we have made closer contact with the NEJ and other expert groups. In this area, we are active co-creators of the Action Plan of the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme. We participate in key interdisciplinary working groups through which we develop ideas and design solutions that fill the gaps between school space and the health sector when there are situations that the school advisory service can no longer resolve. However, we know that there are also limitations, waiting periods are long, and the availability of personnel also has its limitations. So this is a process that we will still have to pay a lot of attention to in the future, including the education of this staff itself. Allow me to mention some of the key activities of the Slovenian Institute of Education in the field of strengthening the mental health of children and adolescents; these educational professional guidelines and foundations are said to be key. The Institute is carrying out many years of activities, which are carried out in the framework of a broader theme of a safe and stimulating learning environment. The VSUO also deals with the contents of the mental health of children and adolescents, as well as professional workers in education and education, and is carried out in several ways. We commissioned a special job at the Ministry in the school year 2020/2021, and 60 schools with 350 participants participated in it, which were trained with four set of web materials and trained in workshops. The emphasis was on the training of teachers for psychosocial topics, their testing in the classroom or with students and the transfer to a systematic implementation team at the school level as a system. The task continues in this school year, with the title Preparation and implementation of school models and strategies for a safe and stimulating learning environment and an even wider participation of both schools and the materials or modules to be selected in this process in this activity. At the Ministry of Education, we also commissioned a special task entitled Prenova, supplementing the documents of the programme guidelines ¦ advisory service in kindergarten, primary and secondary school. As it is said, the main task here is to refresh and, above all, to lay such guidelines on modern foundations, to find ways to connect with the needs and interests as well as the knowledge of external groups in the search for these solutions and assistance. It is said, on the one hand, how to approach a child, a learner, a student, to cooperate with parents, with the management of institutions, professional staff, other external professional institutions that are urgently needed in carrying out such work. Here we are talking about mental health centres for children and adolescents, social work centres, early treatment centres for children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems, with counselling centres. As we say, this is a very extensive document that we expect to be prepared by the end of this year. I've already mentioned the CATIS seminars. It may only be information that very active and intensively takes place in a much greater interest and response than in previous years. In 2022 a publicly accessible video package was made for the independent training of individuals as school teams and collectives, and three video packages refer to emotional literacy and mental health. The online classroom, in which there are active participants all the time, is around 400 of them, representatives of school teams, who then network knowledge beyond schools. The materials in this connection are intended for schools, school teams, teachers, principals: videos, manuals, beams Including school, this is a special link for emotional and social education. After that, the Institute of Education in 2020/2021 has already prepared recommendations for kindergartens and schools in which professional workers were specifically addressed in the field of mental health, in terms of a secure and encouraging learning environment, the work of the regional units of the institution itself, professional meetings with the directors, because part of the programme was specifically aimed at supporting collectives, seeking solutions, proposals for areas in terms of a safe and conducive environment. In the context of the publication of publications of the Education and Education Institute, the Education and Education Journal, as well as the School’s advisory work with numerous articles, which are current with the contents on mental health and also external, as already mentioned, close activity and cooperation with others, as well as competent professional societies and groups. So much is possible about these very concrete naming activities that are ongoing at this moment and, as it is said, directly due to the addressing of these covid pressures in relation to mental state. Perhaps, in financial terms, the increase in financial support for expenditure related to mental health, a healthy and stimulating learning environment has increased by 113 points in our ministry compared to 2019. This means that in this financial sense we are certainly paying attention, this is a reliable part of the process, which will also need to be very careful in the future. At the same time, it is true to be aware of these different complexities of causes, reasons and also of the different forms that activate these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Željko Ciegler has the floor. Mr Boštjan Koražija is behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u131	Chairman, thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! This topic for me is the number one we need to talk about; the topic that is more important, it is life, it is children, it is the mental health of children, which has been very open and poorly taken care of before the covid crisis. During the co-vide, mental health care for children and adolescents has virtually stopped. And today, as a leftist, I'm going to say, "God help me!" Whoever's doing this, the nice words are running now, the warnings were in the National Assembly, I don't know how many. All I would say is that in the previous term, the Modern Centre Party was also a member of this party under the leadership of Dr. Murglov and prepared certain amendments to the law that would improve the situation in this area. This is not just a school area, but also a health, social, broad area. But it's about kids in Slovenia. The keeper and the keeper warn you not to hear. The urgent meeting of the Education Committee was in the National Assembly shortly, I'll say. The list of Marjan Šarca called her, Aljaž Kovačič made a nice introduction, but things haven't changed since then. Madam Minister, Minister, this is also your responsibility, the responsibility of this government. Although, I will say that the situation in the past governments that preceded this present government has also been bad and has not been heard. Personally, I have said this many times in this National Assembly, but the four-year mandate period is now ending, and I have worked hard in this area, despite the arguments, the calls of parents, schools, the profession has not changed anything. We have money for roads, we have money for weapons, we have money for economic infrastructure, we will build the necessary health facilities – why do we not directly help and implement the legal obligations, constitutional obligations towards children and young people with mental problems? Especially because we have a lot of good practice ahead of us, and it is confirmed that the right help in the Republic of Slovenia and in the Republic of Slovenia can ensure that the results have an impact on improvement in many cases; I could say even the majority. After my experience in working in the local community with such children in schools and kindergartens, I worked as an administrative worker in the congregation. Why isn't he investing in this? I would like to tell the Minister when she spoke earlier about how to help children right now and especially about their mental health when children from Ukraine come. It is necessary to help every child, and let it be from Ukraine, Russian speaking from Donetsk, Lugansk, Afghanistan, Syria, Roma children. They're kids. To those who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, however, this country, this Parliament, especially the Government, has a special task and an obligation to ensure that their legal rights are exercised. I have said many times here that in the implementation of the decision-making decisions they violate, do not implement, the rights that are worth exercising for 600, 700 children who have an escort, about 11,000 children with special needs in Slovenian primary schools and kindergartens will be a few million euros of money. In other areas that I mentioned earlier, I will not say that they are irrelevant, but they go hundreds of millions [[Finger-toed clap]] This is when it comes to a person when it comes to a child in the Republic of Slovenia, a social state, there is no money to be found. If, as I said earlier, the situation in this area was alarming in front of the covidé, I wonder what Mrs Kustec’s previous minister was talking about when she said how much more money the government has spent on advisory staff in secondary schools – 29 percent. Yesterday I was at the opening of the foundation at the Primary School of the Devil in Celje – thank you very much for the government's accession to the Ministry here. These investments are important and are now taking place in the country, but I was asked by school representatives and principals: Why can't it be heard why it isn't taking action? And the things written in the laws or strategies of either the Ministry of Education or education or work, family and social affairs — why does it not take an active part in strengthening the mental health of children and adolescents? Because when this is not done — and the consequences or positive effects are known — there is tremendous damage to children, irreparable to families. Above all, there are very high costs to the health, social system, because in this way this country, I will say that because it does not act, it deliberately produces mentally disabled persons. Who gave this authority to ministers and governments who swore to work for the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia, especially children? See, in times of severe crisis, when schools closed down, there were children, and the Constitutional Court warned us that we had reacted. The National Assembly was not enough to influence the different behaviour of the government, the Constitutional Court warned that children with special needs of the school are not only given education that can be carried out to some extent, although I do not know how in the first triad, but those with special needs in schools receive therapy, help to overcome their development problems, either emotional and behavioural disorders, autism or anything else. At that time, practically any assistance from the system, which could first be implemented by the public health system, was stopped for such children. Sorry, schools were closed, they were closed, and health homes were still closed! This is an important public health system in the Republic of Slovenia, which includes pre-school and school outpatients, including pediatricians and all other professionals who help children with special needs. Schools are, after what they are to me yesterday – and I know these things, and we can look at how many children, how many children with special needs are growing, especially those who are not guaranteed by the decisions on direction given to escorts and by this country of escorts. In my four-year term, which is not just one government, so far no minister or minister has been able to explain why children's rights under the guidance decisions are being violated here. And I'd say this when I said the health homes were closed. Look, there were, I say, pedopsychiatric wards at the school clinics, out of reach. The counselling centres for children, adolescents and parents who give treatment to children and families of parents with special needs are organized because the Municipality of Ljubljana has established the Maribor Municipality, and there is little work to be done with these children on the coast, and then it is over. Who cares who provides the necessary treatment for children with special needs, mental disorders and problems in other parts of the country? How is this discrimination justified? That's discrimination. If you live in Prekmurje, or in Celje, for example, or in Koroška, or, what do I know, in Gorenjska, this kind of help will not be given to children. If you are in Ljubljana, Maribor or the coast – a little worse – you will get it! How can this be overlooked?Oh, my God! Super, Mr Minister, that we have adopted a programme to build the necessary additional infrastructure and replace the long-term health infrastructure, that is, buildings and so on. But look, we need to ensure now and also in the future, but now this need is huge and growing for help to maintain and provide mental health for children and adolescents. The figures in the statistics of the Ministry of Education tell us how many of these children there are. And over a number of questions, as before Minister Pical as now Mrs Kustec, I have opened this matter, and I think to you, Mr Minister, that there has ever been an indirect, but there was no concrete answer. And what Mrs Kustec said earlier was how much they have improved, how much the situation of children has improved with special needs, how much more advisory workers, and I do not know what other measures – I say: I'm sorry, this is not true! The situation of children with special needs is even worse. Shame on the governments that allow it, shame on this national assembly, which has not been able to change attitudes towards children, to children with special needs, to ensure and strengthen the mental health of children and adolescents. And it is a shame for the Republic of Slovenia to allow children's rights to be so gravely violated, even though we see these consequences directly, we are going through it. In the meantime! This is what I expect or want, the hope dies last, but I am talking about children that in the coming months or year or two this situation will change in the country. Because one is how we tolerate this situation in the country, and the international situation is now in Europe and around the world. How do children feel about this? How do they process their feelings all these things around them? Will we change our relationship with children with special needs? Are we going to put the baby first? And not only are we going to build him a school, a kindergarten, what we're about to do, but we're going to make sure that he has people in this kindergarten who are going to listen to him, who are going to help him, who are going to be able to deal with him individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Boštjan Koražija, followed by Mrs Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u133	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Cigler’s colleague earlier said very well and nicely that the point is that in time or living in a time where it will be necessary to invest more specifically in people, in this case also in the personnel that will take care of the mental health of your children and our children. I have also once asked about the oral question concerning the employment of new clinical psychologists and psychiatrists, and I am only interested because, before, Mrs Minister, she spoke about some new 186 fillings, if I understand correctly, but she said “may”. Why is this not mandatory – to “must”? It is said that these were only tenders or that they were actually new jobs. In fact, I would ask if he would also answer me to clear up on these employment of new social workers and workers. It is true that during this time these NGOs, which in fact covered this part, failed the health system or medicine to help all corners where it was possible to alleviate these pressures of youth and children. In fact, it is really worrying how percentages have increased, let's say, these calls are actually on this Tom phone, which is actually 30 years in fact the one who's been listening, listening, helping young people and children. The information we have received or are also available to the public is indeed disturbing. Thus, 72 percent were more youths who thought or thought or threatened even with suicide. This is one fact that will also have to be dealt with publicly. I come from a region where there was a lot before or we were first in Slovenia by the number of suicide attempts, and in this case, we have, unfortunately, again landed because of this social isolation and the other problems that had already accumulated, again in the first place, unfortunately, after these attempts also among young people. Yes, to be perfectly honest, we must also admit that the crown has surprised us, including this war that is now taking place — unfortunately it has happened. Yes, all of this has also been mentioned several times in previous meetings that we expected more from Minister Kustec; some inclusions in the sense that she would just approach some of the problems that have just accumulated in the sense of these problems for children or adolescents. Let us now leave these technical things, which were zoom and school at a distance, but in reality children had no opportunity to access experts who could help them in any way in terms of these pressures: depression, mental health. Many times we had the feeling that there were no children and teachers had a feeling, and parents also made it clear that they wanted more of her help so that they could also help their children and adolescents more and better, but unfortunately besides the elderly they were, unfortunately, still the main or the biggest victims of this coronary pandemic in Slovenia. [[…]] As a matter of fact, I'm curious to hear about these new social jobs. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Your time's up. The next debate is Mrs Maša Kociper, which is followed by a mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you and a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! At first, I can conclude with regret that this subject, which is addressed to this day or this afternoon, is of no interest to our coalition colleagues. There aren't many of us in the hall, but I don't think there's anyone in the coalition, and that's really sad. There's no minister at the moment, either, but I understand that you need to get out sometime. Anyway, in this short time I have, I'm going to point out two things. One is my frustration, which I repeatedly repeat, that in this country one thing is simply not solved and for years and years we speak of them. Thus, this criticism is not only a criticism of this government, but also of some government before, perhaps at least at the SAB, which has been all together for two years in the government, and we have not been leading the relevant ministries at that time, but in terms of this lack of expertise, clinical psychologists, sociologists, educators, these also for children with special needs and so on. They've been missing for, I'm sure, at least 10 years. I still remember in court, I was in charge of this mediation department, and in many family mediations and, of course, also in family court proceedings, there is a need for an executive opinion from these experts, particularly when it comes to the allocation of children, decisions on contacts with parents, with other parents, where this other parent is not the guardian and so on. And it's been missing for years and years. I wonder if, as a country, we really don't know how to find some answers to these dilemmas, which are probably not nuclear physics and have ever had them anywhere in the world and maybe ever invented any positive practice. Surely something can be done for us in this regard. Not that after such an epidemic crisis comes, we find that now that we really need these experts, more of them and more of their services, there are none! I am also not an expert in this area, of course, I do not know what it is that can be done, but there are people in the ministry who should be experts in this area, even at the Ministry of Health, maybe, but who should finally find some answers to how to react, that this problem will still be resolved and that it will not last another 10 years. The fact that children who have severe difficulties are, for example, not eating, is bulimia, or something that they can't get in line, let's say Gotska, if I'm talking about Ljubljana, because there's a waiting period of one year and they have to take, of course, a bunch of children who have suicidal tendencies, is very bad for a parent who has a child with bulimia or anorexia. Also, in some procedures where it is necessary to make decisions and are legally necessary for children and should be in the interests of children, they should only decide for so long because there are no relevant experts to draw up opinions, it is unacceptable for me. I would also like to use this debate to appeal to this government, and at the same time to any further approach, and this issue begins to be resolved as a matter of urgency. That's the first thing. But the other thing is when we talk about children's tribulations, there are some things that can be saved. Sometimes I think that maybe as a member of the National Assembly, one in the 1990s – it is not easy to become an MP, sometimes we forget – but I will be able to make a difference and actually now I have a second mandate for one thing that, in my opinion, is just a matter of a little goodwill from the Ministry. This is to change the way children are evaluated during the transition from primary to secondary school. I've talked about this a lot, and I've written to the minister about at least three questions and the initiatives of this one, and they've already five times before, but nothing changes here. For years and years, parents, children and especially professors have been alerted that the fact that children have to be as good as possible in all subjects is an exceptional source of stress for these children. None of us are good at everything. Nobody! We all have more of one talent, and we don't have another. I mean, I'm not into engineering and chemistry and physics, and I don't force myself there, and I've never done it, but I've done it for something else. And our children are expected to be able to go to high school, especially high school, and many children are expected to go to high school because they have not yet been defined to know what they want – they cannot, because they do not have enough grades for all subjects. In America, for example, when they detect someone who is outstanding in mathematics, they say: “Wow, you are exceptional in mathematics, here we will support you because we want to get an extraordinary expert who will do something in this area. Leave the exercise, if you don't go, leave the drawing, you focus on it." No, it's against us! Are you good at math? Okay, but you've got three exercises and you can't make it to Bezigrad. Because you don't go to Bezigrad with threes, do you? And that seems to me to be one thing that could absolutely be solved with a little good will and for which I was told by three different principals at these meetings that I had. They said: “Mrs. Kociper, what you are saying is causing extraordinary stress not only to children but in the order of parents, children and teachers.” Even teachers who are under pressure and children and parents because they want good grades for you. I'm gonna stop here at this point to give a little more time to a colleague who's behind me. But what I'm saying is, with a little goodwill, some things and hardships would be life-saving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. This debate is not taking place today because we do not think anything has been done in this area. But we think it's not done according to the level, type and urgency of the problem children and adolescents have. We need to take into account the impact of the epidemic and the restrictive measures on mental health, because children are our most vulnerable group and adolescents are the same as they are. And these consequences of the epidemic are currently visible, but they will be present much longer than our mandate, for example, as well as ministers and ministers. It seems that although something has been done – we have also heard in the field of the Ministry of Health – I think even more in the field of the Ministry of Education. However, it seems to me that the level or significance of this problem is overlooked and that the ministries have redirected these activities elsewhere – of course it is understandable in this epidemic. However, we all find that we are under-experts who deal precisely with psychology or the psychological problems of school youth and in raising awareness of these psychosocial consequences of the epidemic, which in some ways has become a new topic, but more for doctorates than for actual use in practice. We need this to be implemented in practice. It is noted, however, that there is a remarkable increase in domestic violence, that the consequences are very visible, that they should be seen in time, then recognized and then addressed properly, and that it is very difficult to determine or determine when the time is right for help because we do not have enough resources to offer it. But we're all here to talk about maybe not just expecting help from experts, because they're not enough. We must as a family, as friends, as neighbors, as some social group, all of us are called upon to at least recognize and help find a way to help. Because it seems to me that at least in this way a lot of people are not happy yet, but I fear that there will be — a number of suicides that will also stop them. In addition to acquiring knowledge, the school is also a place for building some relationships and maintaining these relationships, for building the image of the child and the youth and for creating social identity and a sense of belonging, which is extremely important for society as a whole. Here is the great task of teachers and educators. Of course, they did not have enough time, especially when the school was closed, nor did they have the opportunity to address the problem to the best extent necessary. For children and adolescents, school professionals are reliable interlocutors. As parents, we may sometimes forget that our children even open up to a teacher, a teacher rather than us for various reasons, and that is why we must not overlook their role and allow them to see and help our children through it. Children and adolescents in school, somehow everyone finds out that they control their lives better, and when these institutions were closed, problems arose, and they still appear, the children resorted to the Internet. On them, however, returning to some everyday life is extremely difficult for some, let alone families where parents experience the same stress, such as at work or for other reasons or, say, in dysfunctional families. [[…]] Children also have problems that they have encountered before the epidemic, and this has certainly increased in it. In particular, there is a problem in families where poverty is present or social exclusion. At the time, at least the children were socially involved when the school did not work and could not be included. We have heard that specialisation calls are being prepared, but these are long-term measures. We need to see what needs to be done in the short term, because these problems are big, they're piled up. I think we need to think in the direction of more of these on-call phones, in the direction of some of the websites to help children, young people, in intensifying the work of school advisory services, because these services are easy already in and the media are really what they say. Give them overtime, just let them work, they will probably want to do it because of their profession, but please open the door to providing their professional assistance in a timely and timely manner. I would also suggest some seminars for parental groups or for parents together, hybrid with school, of course divided by triads, for example, and after the age of children and adolescents. Well, it's not just some naked medicine, as my colleague said, or naked psychology or pedophiliatry. Today this is very intertwined and therefore a wider involvement of society is needed to address this problem, which we are really facing and which will have consequences for later. The government owed us too much for, say, 40 billion, and half of this went to help the economy, but half went to some candy store and all this has to be returned once because it's overpaid. Who's gonna pay back? The ones who are in school today! And now these children need to be helped to remain normal and then be able to repay those debts because they will be drawn back. Unfortunately, it's not their fault, but they'll have to return them on our behalf. Well, we're aware that there are solutions. I'm asking both ministers to really stand up for this while they're still in the saddle, because this rock that hangs over their necks is simply going to sink too quickly into a kind of despair from which there will be no return. What an interest we have seen in the presence of fellow Members of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The last debate is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Maybe just to explain why I'm here in the debate: because I have just too little time as a proponent, it seems to me that there are some things that need to be said. We find that more and more children and young people have anxiety disorders, have depressive symptoms, have suicidal behaviours, show reduced motivation for school work and activities in general, including for movement and physical activity as such. It also has malnourished, excessive use of screens or more in the human language, it is already addictive. And these pressures are experienced by both children, parents and teachers, as we have already said. When I was preparing for this meeting today, I invited schools, organisations, NGOs, including students to send me information from the field because I was wondering what was actually going on in the field. So now I'm going to take a few minutes and I'm going to try to introduce you also because of those who have tried and wrote to me what is actually going on in our schools and in the student dormitories and among students and elsewhere. Also in the PUM-O programme, if you know it implemented by the Andragog Institute for Young Adults. In short, I will not operate on the names of the schools, but I will operate only on the name of the organization as such. Let's say one primary school tells me that there are a lot of pressures associated with the decline of success, which means that despite the reduced number of grades in the process, there are estimates that are not expected. These pressures are increased both in the number and in the intensity and resolution of this is extremely difficult. Not only in the less successful, but also in the more successful students. Growth is in social inclusion or exclusion. Students either shut themselves down or hang out too much or want to show themselves, so they also resort to very critical methods of expressing themselves or obtaining confirmation from others. Growth is also observed due to problems on social networks that were perhaps more intense at the time the children were at home. It is noticeable that parents do not detect many of the things that students do in secret because it is very hidden. It is noted that at times the students turned more to their parents and friends in case of problems, including school teachers and counseling. This is less now, and since there is less, problems are bigger and much more difficult to solve. This was not to this extent before the cobbler. It is also noted that students are hypersensitive to peer responses, especially in teenage students, as well as to the responses to the efforts that are now required of them in schools. The demands are lower than they were before the covid's appearance, but there's a lot more pressure. There are also obvious changes in habits, in patterns of behavior, there is a sense of dissipation, according to homework, apathy and avoidance of obligations; in particular those who are in school every day. The lady also writes that she would dare to claim that the changes in the behaviour of teachers who give up or who do not understand strictly and perhaps even label any hardship as, in the notes, re-use, but not necessarily. It can only be the willlessness or aimlessness of the students because they were fine at home, dutyless and dutyless, both by parents and by school. We must not forget that students are experiencing the distress of everything that is also happening through the internalization of parental pressures. The lady writes that she does not have solid evidence for this, to say, some analytical with various surveys or analyses, but that it is great that the MIP temporarily increased the possibility of additional hours of employment to the advisory service, but only until 31. 8. 2020, which is absolutely insufficient, because it is only with the start of normalisation that difficulties begin to manifest to the extent that it has now been hidden. There is also a need for a constant increase in the size of the advisory service for at least the duration of covida, i.e. two, three years – and in general, and in the number of pupils and departments, which is not the same. Because if there are 16 or 28 students, of course, there is a difference, the lady goes on. And the advisory services are, of course, absolutely overloaded. It also suggests that the number of classes in schools should be temporarily increased, since the classmates could still work on prevention, not only on curativa, as is currently feasible. Then another school from another part of Slovenia writes like this. “One of the biggest problems is definitely the lack of movement, which has weakened the mobility of children, the exact results of the Faculty of Sport, are automatically related to the mental abilities of children, which will be known in the long term. Another major problem in our school is the difficulties of children, because the period was very different in all respects." Now, because of the Ukrainian crisis, we also see the hardships that children, who are also vulnerable to these kinds, are experiencing. It says at the time of the bombing of Yugoslavia, it wasn't like that. The following school writes: “At our school we observe that the difficulties of children have increased during the covid-19 epidemic. He's more and more like a child with learning problems. You need a hearing with a school counselor. These are children who have problems with attention, concentration, reading problems, calculation. We also help students to learn learning strategies. A poorer understanding is also evident. Some children have also become dependent on playing computer games at this time. The school teacher informs the management of all frequent visits to students who are suing for stress and fear. Parents also regularly turn to pedagogy, which has recently been observed in children with regular nausea and headaches and has ruled out some organic causes. We have also recently observed that children have problems due to the identity crisis. The school teacher offers support and assistance to these students. We must not forget the children who lost their loved ones in the past months. We also offer them support and a safe environment during this time of mourning. At school, we are currently dealing with slightly worse relations between students. Teachers devote a lot of time to discussing respectful relations, how important communication is, and how important it is to accept differences. The teacher is also trying to provide this help. It is urgent to amend the standards for counsellors, which must complement their obligation with a large number of teaching hours. In fact, the teaching aid of counseling and discussions today is needed by all students and students.” This is already another concrete proposal from the field, what should be done. Then the next school writes: “We had more students this year who tried to commit suicide. One ate aspirin in such a quantity that she was still in critical condition for some time. Of course she was hospitalized. The student also has problems in the family if she were in school, her distress would certainly be lower. The same is true of two older sisters who listened to suicide. Some girls wanted to commit group suicide. Thank God it was timely for one of the girls to stop or someone else who just happened to come. One of the three people who tried to commit this group suicide was immediately hospitalized. Lately, we've been noticing that more and more girls have started cutting through the body. We have quite a few students and students who have developed fear of public performances, fear of evaluation, so we evaluate them separately, although the law says otherwise or the girls do not have decisions, but at least in this way we ease their distress a little. Many children also have syringes when they have to be asked or tested because they are afraid. For children are under pressure of evaluation due to quarantine, which has been or has been in the order of long-distance education. We have a student who is afraid to leave home, especially his own. He developed an unhealthy emotional bond with them, and it was very bad. This was especially seen when we went to school in nature. The students cried and missed the parents of the 6th grade." Teacher’s comments on the subject: “Children are apathetic about work because they have a bad background from the previous year, so they do not know and therefore cannot participate in schooling, which certainly affects their confidence. If they don't know, they feel less valuable; in short, a little less. Their interest in work is lower than in previous years. Because of wearing masks, I felt like a parrot myself,” says the teacher, “I kept saying: what, what, what, I can’t hear you! Because I didn't hear the kids. It must have been embarrassing for the child to repeat his answer several times, for the first time because he is even more uncomfortable, and for the second time because he did not know whether he said right or wrong, and this causes a great deal of distress for the children.” I don't read everything. “I must tell you that our advisory service is charged 200 per hour.” This teacher also draws attention to the mental difficulties of teachers, teachers, or all school employees, because — as I discussed earlier — they also provide support to children. They also wrote to me, it's just a few cases from elementary school, and I won't be anymore because things are very similar; in short, things on the ground are really alarming. From the student homes I received the following message: “In the student homes we are critical to the ministry, because there were no systemic solutions, it was somehow, a little saying that this is a matter of the Ministry of Health.” But the findings from the field are as follows: “The difficulties are due to the covida and they have become stronger, they show a terrible lack of social contacts, of peer association.” Now it has to be said that students live in student homes from Monday to Friday all the time, do not go to their families, and are also cared for by educators. “The essential feelings of belonging, support, sharing of care and problems, assistance of peers, sharing of leisure time have been reduced, we did not know this before. Previously, it was only about the non-motivation of young people and the inactivity of young people, but now there has been a lack in meeting the existential needs of young people in a purely human, emotional and experiencing area. And that's new to us. Young people missed peers, highlighted isolation, loneliness, and help with learning that they did not have. We note that there are increasing numbers of young people with specific, personal, emotional and other problems that require professional treatment of psychiatrists, psychologists, pedopsychiatrics. The parents of these children also expect to be involved in normal educational work and will be successful there. There are also teachers and others who work with young people in distress, as these problems are also their problems. This, unfortunately, is no one’s business.” Then one example is also from NGOs. The Society of the Salezian Youth Centre specifically, because it seems important for me to draw attention to exactly what I have already said – the integration of structural aid with NGOs. “Covid and the closing down of schools has the most affected young people in the field of metallic health, the health system cannot control all these pressures, even parents turn to NGOs, and they also need treatment. They bring in their children who have been hospitalized and are still in poor mental condition. Young people in NGOs also come on the initiative of personal doctors also social work centres, as the official system cannot deal with all the pressures.” Of course, why this is happening, the reasons are the same as before: no contacts, no help, no distance training, so solutions are needed. Even for NGOs dealing with this issue, it would be nice to provide them with this constant source of income, so that these experts can also work and, finally, these programmes will be continuously implemented; not that, if funding of the programme is stopped, the programme, which is most difficult, should it be stopped. In the meantime, when I was preparing for this topic, I noticed that hospital care actually reduced this hospitalisation due to these needs. On average, on average, such children have been hospitalized for 21 days, now less. And even though they have not yet been cured or most well, they were sent home because they needed beds for new ones. And then they came specifically into this non-governmental organization. After I discussed with my colleagues from the Andragog Institute, or specifically from the PUM-O programme, which you probably know, Minister, you know. These are the young people who aren't anywhere involved who don't have personal doctors who don't go to school. Of course, a vulnerable group of young people who are exposed to marginalisation and then in the PUM-O programme are learning all these things new. I have also worked in the Maribor PUM-O myself, and I must say that these young people who have dropped out for such and other reasons either from primary school or from secondary schools and from universities are nowhere. They weren't anywhere. And if it wasn't for PUM-O, then these kids would be safely on their way to a very difficult state. In young people, we have seen mood and emotional changes compared to the time before the pandemic. The mood between the pandemic was, of course, worse, the more bad will among young people, the more intense the feelings of sadness, anger, anxiety, loneliness, depression. They became increasingly bored, and the use of drugs was increasing. From month to month, when they were closed because they could not come to PUM-O, there was a growing need for personal treatment of participants, which they expressed, of course, because they also expressed personal distress. PUM-O is also an additional problem because it is even more difficult for them to maintain motivation and design the activities of these young people who have somehow fallen out of the formal school system for some reason. And of course, this current closure has pushed them further into mental distress, willlessness. They also had or needed the design of their daily routines. There were problems at home, too. If I read to you specifically, because they also did surveys on what all young people wrote about this design of their day, in fact, that it was necessary to get up and that it was necessary to wash and then it was necessary to go to Zoom and monitor, to say that this education had been received by these Pumovci. “I never went to math, so of course I had problems at school and fell out of it. I never thought I'd make it. What I thought was impossible, she, the mentor, did. Help has been given in instructions, in the distribution and organization of learning, and especially in the faith of me and in my success. The work produced fruit. Not only did I make three and four of them. This encouraged me so much that I began to learn new things.” Jan writes: “I grew up personally and grew more mature. One mentor deserves me to start eating healthy and taking care of my body. She got me out of the comfort zone. I started moving, even walking up the hill. I lost 20 kilograms, which had an important impact on my confidence." Then another Jan writes: “We had a zoo every day. Every Tuesday we had to present something we had to prepare for ourselves. I had very specific tasks. If there was no one on the phone, the mentors called him on the phone. It was cruel that we didn't see each other, that we didn't feel. Despite the situation, it was well organised.” Then Gasper writes: “PUM-O gave me a contribution to personal growth. On PUM-O, I find out who I am. When I arrived, we talked, I changed my mind, and you set your goals, and I had a list of things to do. Whatever I need or don't know, the mentors are always here to help me. They're asking me if I need anything. I can always turn to them." These are, of course, the examples and statements of these Pumovniks, who have succeeded in saying that they have been through their tribulations and will most of them, most of them, also have returned to some organised forms of education, from which they have been said to have fallen for such or other reasons. Now, probably all of us know the Youth 2020 survey they did at the Sociology Department of the University of Maribor. We know that in this study, there has been an increase in stress among young people, which is felt by most of the days of the week, and loneliness has increased by 30 percent, and fears among young people who are very much growing and are also bound up in several areas: health, employment, housing. This intensity has increased twice and, of course, mental health in students or young people has deteriorated greatly. This anxiety and the sense of worthlessness that young people have is actually very interesting, because somehow they say that it is necessary to get over it, to talk more or to have more to say, help and workshops and discussions also about how we understand each other. This is also very relevant at this time of the Ukrainian crisis, because when, in fact, it is terrifying that the government has tweeted that these Ukrainian refugees are now these real refugees, and others have not been because they are a little different skin color. I mean, these are scary things that someone's producing, and they probably don't even think [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u140	My colleague, you have a different content, not a different one. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u141	And he probably doesn't think about the damage he's doing. [[…]] [[…]] We will definitely have a new problem, a new epidemic on a march called obesity, a decline in movement and digital addiction. This has been discussed extensively at the Ljubljana Faculty of Sport. They talk about it all the time. We have also warned about this, and I have also pointed out this 30 per cent increase in obesity among children, which is, of course, only attributable to all those mental stories. And these are things that will be saved for 10 years, if not more. That is why we need to be aware of all these problems today, or right now, and also to do everything we can to help these children. It was terrifying to me when they were interpreting with the Faculty of Sport, I think that 30 percent of the children who were — I now think — who were in front of the covet were sportingly active, it is said, had some sports activities or some sports-related research activities, school activities related to sport, that at the time of closure, when we were, you know, all closed up and nothing was possible that 30 percent of the children never came back at all. And they were used to some routines before, I don't know, two hours after school at home, and then they go to some practice. But 30 percent of the children have not returned, and these are lost generations, or these are problems that we will still have to face. Then, students as one of the overlooked generations that I actually read in one article were students of the overlooked generation who lost their smile. [[…]] There's only horrible things in here. If you remember, Minister, you will surely remember that I wrote to you immediately when the student homes were closed. In fact, students had to move out from one day to another. Many also have a permanent residence in a dormitory, but they had to move out and return to their own environment. These things and these hardships, of course, are still going to be there for a while, and I'm going to read some concrete statements from the children again. Anja, 20 years of age, writes: “At the beginning of the pandemic or my first year of college, I began to suffer more self - injury because of stress. I stopped in the middle, and then the stress triggered my defense mechanism again, when I, if it was too easy, if I couldn't control my emotions, punished myself. For me, self-inflicted is a kind of valve. All the toxic thoughts I've had before have come back to me: that I'm worthless, that I'm not smart enough, that I'm a bunch of shit, that I deserve to die." Then 23-year-old Zarya writes: "I have decided to seek help since autumn 2020, anxiety with panic attacks has accompanied me since 19 years, but this loneliness has only worsened. The therapy was abandoned during the winter lock down because they were going far away, and my mental state was getting worse. In the spring, I decided to take serious help because there was no evening so I could sleep peacefully without a panic attack. At home at first, I did not have much encouragement, for family members did not understand what was happening to me, and they also hoped for better times to come. In fact, I also taught them why therapy benefits me and that taking antidepressants is not all fun.” It is also important to talk about what we are talking about today, because in this way we encourage people, young people, to come for help and to hope to say that they have problems, even out loud. Another study was sent to me, where at the Institute of Education in Maribor they did a proper analysis of the change in anxiety, covid-19, anxiety, connections and feelings of belonging to the school among young people in Slovenia during the epidemic. Here, too, are the interesting results of this research. Of course, they talked about the welfare of children, youths during the pandemic. They found an increased level of concern about schooling and relationships with peers and peers. Surprisingly, the virtual time spent with peers, peers associated with a higher degree of depression, but with a lower degree of loneliness. They received slightly different results and found that girls have a higher level of anxiety and older adolescents have reported a higher level of anxiety. Of course, this lack and this lack of association and the fact that they were unable to associate, to engage in sports, all of them were, of course, deeply hurt. But there are differences according to the type of school and according to gender. That's how I believe you can play with this at the Ministry. Okay, I won't do that again. Perhaps just to conclude, because I think there are still some discussions behind me that I won't be too long again. I read a little more about what counsellors are seeing. They write as follows at the Advisory Centre for Children, Youth and Parents Maribor: “Study and assistance must be a priority in the present and also in the coming period. Appropriate family environment or parenthood and appropriate communication methods, more quality time spent together as well as modeling different ways of coping with stress appear to be a protection factor against mental health problems and should therefore be encouraged. We're in a lot of trouble right now. School pressure. Students have a lot of trouble getting back into the stables. Distant schooling has shown poor ability to direct attention, increased fear and anger. It is positive, however, that both parents and children are more vulnerable to seeking help, which they view as good at the Advisory Centre.” I'm not doing this anymore. In short, responses from the field are such that we all have to do everything together and immediately so that these pressures will be reduced as much as possible and that we will really offer help to children as soon as they need it, not that they will wait too long for it. I am convinced that all of us who sit here are aware of this and that those who have not come to this meeting are aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the proposer will be given the floor. First he gets the word Minister of Health, Janez Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! I am pleased that we have held this important debate today with several aspects. Firstly, for an area as important as mental health, of course we all need a constructive debate as a society. I can mark much of today's debate as extremely constructive and I believe it will help to continue, to achieve mental health in Slovenia. We've heard quite a few objective facts from the field, too, that's an important thing. Of course, such debates also require a profession where we could be empowered with a different view of a fact. On the other hand, this debate today is important because unfortunately it has taken years not to say a decade too late. In fact, this debate today in the National Assembly, I hope that, until the end, the area of Slovenia withdraws the taboo in the field of mental health. Mental health is not taboo, mental health is one of the most important factors for the success of Slovenia. Only in this way will we overcome the stigma of those with mental health problems. Of course, one of the important steps that started with the adoption of the resolution and then the adoption of the first action plan in 2018, and we are now ahead of the adoption of the second one, is that we are practically exclusively out of peas where mental health has been addressed until recently, we are moving this to the ground. We move this to the ground with mental health centers for children and adolescents, moving it to the ground with mental health centers for adults. Why is mental health so important during childhood? It is important because 50 percent of mental illness or disorder begins by 24 years and 75 percent by 25. That is why this area is so important and tender and it is right to refer to it in the National Assembly and even wider. Between 2008 and 2015, the number of prescribed psychotropic drugs increased by 50 percent in children by 19 years. None of the factors that I can list for quite some time are encouraging in the field of mental health if we compare ourselves with other countries. It is true, though, that my predecessors have worked hard in this area, even though they have been practically pioneers according to the situation, they have been and we have been, nevertheless, to observe the trends that are in improvement. Otherwise, I would like more important, drastic ones, as has been said in the debate today, however. It is important that today's debate raise awareness of mental health; that, together with the programmes presented by the Minister of Education – and we must not forget that an important part is also taking place in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and that part of the Ministry of Justice is also raised by literacy in this area, thus allowing mental illness or hardship to be recognised sufficiently early and that those who need help to reach or decide on it at all. Because at the European level, it is found that as many as 50 percent of those who need it do not approach it because it is not written enough or because not all the conditions are met. In Slovenia, of course, this percentage is even worse. What was important about the epidemic was, of course, that the covida-19 epidemic had exposed all the flaws. And even where their mental health is better regulated, there has been a deterioration. Only rarely, or I don't know a case where they'd maintain the same level they had before the epidemic. It must also be said that, together with the Ministry of Education, with the staff involved in education and education, I believe that we have made enormous efforts over the past two years to do everything for children and young people. And I believe that with the collective efforts of all of us, we have demonstrated broad awareness in the field of mental health or how important the field of mental health is. I think that this is an exemplar case where we need to move on; it is said that we all together as a society can recognize the problem and uniquely address it, and that is the only way we are going in the right direction. When we talk about mental health as a social challenge, of course we are talking about a strategy. You can't turn that around overnight. We can't get enough trained personnel overnight. This is about multi-annual strategies and the planned work of all; it is called government, parliament and all other segments of society, both professional and non-governmental organisations and all others. For example, in 2021, we increased the number of mental health centres for children and adolescents by an annex to the general agreement of 1 to the general agreement of 2021, as well as for adults of 1.7 million euros. While everything has already been achieved in the past year, the programmes are said to be worth almost €10 million. It should also be said that the action plan, which we are preparing together with the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and also marginally with other resources, is addressing these problems for the next year at almost EUR 30 million. It should be said that the key relevant training of the staff, the sufficient number of skills of the relevant staff, is a community-based treatment, where owners and the local community are involved, the expansion of mental health centres for children and adolescents by extending activities to specialist outpatient activities and adult mental health centres by expanding in the field of mobile teams, which will also work more broadly in the local environment or in the domestic environment. Then literacy and desigmation will be crucial, so that we can even show people how important we have a problem, because only the awareness of everyone will lead to a significant improvement. The important impact in mental health in Slovenia is, of course, excessive alcohol consumption, so this is an important area that is also addressed by the Action Plan or will be addressed by the Action Plan and prevention of suicidal behaviour. However, we must not forget, as it has been repeatedly exposed to the need to strengthen social protection programmes and programmes in support of families. In particular, we are preparing steps with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because a number of mental distresses are reflected in social distress or economic crises in families, in environments caused by either covid or the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia. What is important is that we address the issue strategically, in this way in the long term, because this is the only way to establish sustainable health care and not every day to put out fires. Because we can all figure out together that we can't do this and we're all wasted. It is therefore necessary to address debates on such important areas as mental health today, also in the future, and I believe that all of us as a society, as we all have recognized covid as our threat together, will also recognize mental health as a value that can give our Slovenian society an important direction in order to be more successful in all areas in the future. Mental health is part of all health and is not a health without mental health; thanks again for today's debate. Of course, I am also looking forward to future all the detailed initiatives and debates, because this is the only thing that brings health care, and thus our society to the future, where what our children need will be a safe haven and a journey to adulthood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. In the end, she gets the word of her proposer, Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you. I don't have much time anymore, and I'm gonna try to be really short, even though we could talk about this all day. I have to say, it saddens me that my coalition colleagues aren't even here today, which is not the best reflection. And this also proved to be true in all those amendments that we have tabled in the opposition and also in the LMŠ, and they have all been rejected, and they have talked about everything we are talking about today. But okay, I said I'm not working today. Covid has taken over 7,000 lives. If we remember from the beginning, most of the time, I am very clever now, but the vast majority of them were older people, older people – so they were not children or adolescents, much of them, but the consequences of the cobbler will take away our young. Since these consequences are severe and are visible today and are manifest in suicides, depression, poor youth, anxiety, eating disorders, therefore it is necessary to provide this assistance immediately. And experts agree that measures aimed at controlling the epidemic have marked the well-being of an important part of children, adolescents and students, and particularly vulnerable ones. However, the closure of educational institutions was indeed an extreme measure, which must no longer be taken. They need young people and children affected by epidemic control measures, targeted assistance that will enable them to overcome the increased vulnerability and address the backlogs that have occurred in recent months, so that, of course, they can return to at least the baselines for integrated development and begin to acquire the skills they will need in the future. The concepts of support for the mental health of children and young people must be supported in educational institutions and to this end substantively and numerically empower and strengthen professionals in the fields of education, education, in particular advisory services. It is also necessary to introduce programmes and services that are evenly and locally accessible to all immediately, free of charge. That's what experts say. And at the same time, they're at a consultation conducted by Mišš 4. 6. 2021, at the time also requested or, to say the word, called on the Government: for the first time to establish a concept of integrated support for the mental health of children and young people in different environments, in families, kindergartens, schools, the local environment and to ensure the long-term system implementation of proven effective prevention programmes and measures to protect their overall well-being in the context of inter-sectoral action. Secondly, to enable the implementation and funding of the proposed measures, including other measures in the field of mental health protection and enhancement, and to provide long-term funding. In this way, children and young people will be given access to environments that protect and strengthen mental health and also provide support for the overall development of an individual and thus of course of society. This was the way that they concluded this counsel. As a matter of fact, I've never claimed you've done anything about it in both ministries. Perhaps we could hear more, perhaps even the government could hear and not introduce all those, including the unconstitutional decisions it made, but I am sorry that it did not hear that at the time or that you did not all hear that. However, we can conclude today that we all agree that assistance is needed immediately, that it is really necessary to pay great attention and not least to provide funding for programmes; also for programmes of non-governmental organisations dealing with mental health and helping children, adolescents and parents, students now, if they come to them. I would also like to thank my colleagues who have insisted today, but I hope that our message is clear: we must act immediately because it is good for our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2022-03-17-SDZ8-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Before we move on to the time-sharing process, I'd like to say just a few more technical details. For this motion for a decision, the quorum 83, 42 members voted in favour, 41 against. Of those who voted in favour, only 5 discussed them, of which only one of the LMŠ Group, although 13 had been announced. So much for the criticisms you point at others. Now that the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 30th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye! (The sitting was suspended 17.) MARCH 2022 AT 15.49.)
