ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the meeting with the sixth item on the agenda, with questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the forecasts to face the start of the political course after the errors of the Union this summer
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u2	Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. We started this political course, which has to be the political course of reactivation, modernization, generation of employment and defense of public services. But undoubtedly, so we've seen throughout this summer in Galicia, we have to be worried, because where the Government of Galicia has competences -- in education, in health, in industry and in social policies -- we find many eivas and a government that does not respond to the problems of citizenship. In education you start the political course by saying goodbye to hundreds of teachers, refusing to return to a system of free textbooks, refusing to put free the first registrations in the Greek universities. During this summer, you've met with the problems, once again, which we all know in public health: structural waiting lists in primary care, problems in so many health areas, saturation, concern, even complaints from the official medical schools against the Galician Union. During this summer we met with the chaos of the hidden certificate, an absolute chaos mounted by this government of the Union of Galicia. We found that the Government is not responding to the industrial problems of Galicia, which are unannounced in the Next Generation, which we followed, a year later, just as we started the previous political course, without knowing where they are going, that we found themselves in the conflict policy with vaccines claiming that no vaccines came to Galicia -- and they even had to correct, because today more than 80 percent of the Greeks and Greeks are vaccinated --. We met with a president of the Galician Union who failed the truth after the Council of Unity when he said that the Galician Union was unaware of the emptying of the concoctions and when twenty-four hours later powerful evidences, the evidences of the emails, showed his deception. And that's why, Mr. Feijóo, who is hard to trust in this government, that citizenship sends a SOS and no one gives it an answer, that they went on vacation and stopped ruling Galicia. Galicia deserves something else, deserves something more than a president's escapism that does not govern his responsibilities in health, education, industry. He deserves something more than a government that makes politics of the conflict with the Government of Spain and opposes the Socialist Party. They talk to the Greeks and the Greeks, they answer the country's problems. Galicia needs a government next to its people and its problems. It's time to change the strategy of the People's Party in Galicia, because we're not doing well. If you're going to continue to maintain that policy of denial of reality when during this summer we meet with health areas that have to wait up to twenty-six days for a citizen to get an appointment in primary care, if you continue to deny temporality in the contracts of health professionals, if they continue to deny that here in Galicia there are difficulties because of the saturation of primary care systems, they are behind the reality of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And, to start this political course, we have to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that governs Galicia, that we are seeing throughout all these days, even on the very same days in which we find ourselves, that the Vox section of the People's Party in Galicia, its secretary general or the Member who has in Bande, try to congratulate themselves on the success of the management of the board with the certificate, you, who were on vacations without going to the courts to request judicial authorization to miss the fundamental rights of citizenship; you, who, when they wanted to apply the covid certificate, did not request authorization and took the courts. And now, when it seems like they don't want to apply it anymore, they congratulate themselves on the successes of their government, which was chaos to the inn and which was chaos all summer. Galicia lacks Government this summer, Galicia lacks project for the future in this country, and you, Mr. Feijóo, have to put on Government Galicia, because, after so much repeating "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia", you have abandoned the Greeks and Greeks throughout this time. And now, with a vaccination strategy that works, you can't go on hiding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u5	...without answering the problems of education, the problems of health, the problems of industry, the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Our loyalty is not complicity, our opposition is loyal to Galicia, not that it is an accomplice to the responsibilities of the People's Party. Galicia has more funds than ever, but it has less government than ever for the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, we find ourselves in fact at the beginning of the course of education, and also, if you consider it this way, at the beginning of this session and, therefore, of the political course that starts in this period of sessions. The academic course is being held normally, and the attitude of the Socialist Party of Galicia can also be considered to be in accordance with the expected. You use Parliament simply to say a number of questions with which all Members, even yours, are surprised, and, yes, to seek the responsibility of the Council of Galicia in the powers of the Government of Spain. On education, we actually started the course by hiring 2,095 teachers more than there were when there were 6,000 students more; that is, 2,095 teachers more and 6,000 students less. You come to teach us university fees, being the only autonomous community that's been freezing university fees for eleven years. None of the Socialist Party has done so throughout Spain. [[Applause]] You come to teach us, Your Honor, the hidden certificate. That's amazing, Mr. Knight! The Supreme Court considers that the actions of the Galician Board in relation to the covid certificate were appropriate, necessary and proportionate. What do you want me to say after the Supreme Court's judgment yesterday, which you also despise! Mr. Knight, why don't you apologize to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of Galicia for the stolen certificate. First of all, because the central government's inaction led all autonomous communities to a situation of defence; secondly, because they were using the pandemic politically in Galicia; and thirdly, because they were confusing people on the hidden certificate. The Supreme Court says that what the Galician Board did, the Clinical Committee of the Galician Health Service and the Galician board jurists is right, that's according to the law and that's what we had to do. And that's exactly what we did, Your Honor. [[Applause]] On the emptying of the concoctions, today at seven o'clock in the morning we are told by the Hydrographic Confederation. Welcome! What do you start saying? That it is your responsibility to empty the coroners -- of the Hydrographic Confederation --. Obviously! And what is the situation, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] That the occupation of the embalms that manage the Galician Union is 60% and the occupation of the embalms that manage the State Administration is 14.7% in the Gates; in Cenza, 12.9%; and in Galicia's largest embalm, in Bellesar, 27.9%. This is a lamentable environmental irresponsibility. And you know, Your Honor, that the Hydrographic Confederation will open a disciplinary file for not preserving Galicia's water and environmental balance. [[Applause]] You're coming, Your Honor, talking about vaccines as well. But if at the Conference of Presidents in Salamanca the only goal of the Government was to say that we had 3.5 million vaccines and for Galicia we were hit zero! And you still defend him! Number of vaccines per number of inhabitants, and autonomous communities with fewer vaccines per number of inhabitants are Catalonia and Galicia. That's the result, Mr. Knight! I know Mr. Sánchez said he had transferred vaccines regardless of each citizen's vote. Thank you very much, Mr. Knight! [[Laughter]] It seems that in Catalonia and Galicia little vote on Mr. Sánchez. And you, who's your treasurer, for still on top of your breast. And on European funds, that's what we were missing. They offer us 600 million euros of European funds and now you come to say that we manage the European funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u9	But, Mr. Knight, it's hard to help you in the control session. But why don't you have a reasonable opposition so that we can have a reasonable dialogue? Do you think you're in your Socialist Party organ in Galicia? No, Your Honor, here in Parliament, you don't have to convince anyone, all you have to do is defend Galicia. And we are defending Galicia in choirs, vaccines, European funds and education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, if anyone deserves a file in Galicia, he is this president of the Galician Union, who cuts into education, who cuts into health, who has no economic management and who leaves on vacations without judicial authorization to skip fundamental rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] You read the sentence, Mr. Feijóo, don't listen, don't tell us stories. You read the sentence, Mr. Feijóo, and tell us if you have any example of an autonomic government that has skipped fundamental citizenship rights without requesting judicial authorization. That's Mr. Feijóo's PP government! The government that left from vacations with a hat that led us to make thrompics and thrompics together. [[Applause]] Every week, different news: when you had to apply for legal authorization, you didn't ask for it; when you had to regulate the system covered by the certificate, you were on vacation. And now they get the Supreme Court to give them a good visa. Are you going to apply? Are you now going to change the whole consensus policy that they achieve with the hospitality sector or just congratulate themselves on their chaos? That you once again come to talk about the vaccines, Mr. Feijóo, is a sample of the unannounced you are. I'm not surprised. Less than a year ago, you said there would be no vaccines until the second half of this year. You said the Government of Spain made great announcements. [[Applause]] Today more than 80 percent of the Greeks and the Greeks are vaccinated because there were vaccines, because there are vaccines, because you've made a good strategy and because you should be recognizing that the Government of Spain has done what the People's Party would not have done, what you've tried to rock. But if you speak, Mr. Feijóo, of various issues and speak of reasonable opposition, you give him all the lessons to the People's Party of Mr. Married, the most unfavourable and most disloyal opposition in Spain and outside Spain, the PP who lost all sense of country. [[Applause]] And don't keep deceiving him, Mr. Feijó. You had knowledge of the emptying of the choirs. You said twelve days ago they didn't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't know whether the Board is so inefficient that it doesn't even find out, whether its advisor doesn't explain things to you, or whether you knew it and went to the board of the board to deceive, to say a falsehood. Twenty-four hours later, the information that they showed with powerful evidence that the Union was informed by the Confederation and the hydroelectric companies. And what did you do later? Then try to say that there was an agreement between the big power companies and the Government of Spain. And do you know what happened yesterday in this country? That the Socialist Party, when it has to make decisions, takes them; and when it is necessary for hydroelectric companies to have to reduce their profits by 2,600 million, the Government takes action. [[Applause]] In the meantime, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u13	...it continues to be hugged by its electric friends and in its convolence with the economic power that solves nothing for the Greeks and for the Greeks You, Mr. Feijóo, have health skills, and waiting lists are structural for the first time in the history of Galicia, with you, that there are no professionals because they go to other places even though there are more MIR squares than ever. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] You have a policy of precariousness and you have failed in health care, because in education you have more teachers than two years ago but less than last year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u14	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u15	And there's a coward, Mr. Feijó. Don't compare the data with two years earlier. And when you talk, Mr. Feijóo, about the reactivation programs in Galicia, tell the truth. You've been cheating Galicia for a year and a half and dizzy. They pulled out 7, 106 and 354 projects for the Next Generation, and then they were doing one more lottery, there's no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u16	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Time's up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u17	Certainly it's very difficult to talk to someone who doesn't want to even reason. I'll try again, Mr. Knight. Why don't we ask the Court for permission on the covered certificate? When we were told that this could affect fundamental rights, we automatically asked for it. [[Protests.]] But, Your Honor, how can I receive lessons from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party when I have had a year in the state of alarm throughout Spain violating fundamental rights unconstitutionally, Your Honor! But can't we get a minimum of wisdom from a bench that I had to do was just ask for forgiveness for using an unconstitutional alarm state? [[Applause]] They don't legislate the pandemic law, they don't let autonomous communities perform their functions, they send us fewer vaccines than the rest of the autonomous communities, and now they come here sucking up their vaccines. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Knight, look, I worked in the post office. Undoubtedly it is a great essential task to carry one package from one side to the other, but that was what the Government of Spain did, to carry the vaccines from one place to another. End of date. Your Honor. The ones that dispensed the vaccines were autonomous communities in Spain and, therefore, the Galician Health Service. I want vaccines dispensed, Your Honor, for you! [[Applause]] And I repeat: the autonomous communities with fewer per capita vaccines were Catalonia and Galicia. And -- I repeat -- it is regrettable that, having 25% of the aging population, we are the autonomous community with fewer vaccines per number of inhabitants. It's unfortunate, Your Honor. And I'm not going to shut up. You say what you want. You and your conscience! But, Your Honor, again with the emptying, with the emptying of the cheers. It turns out that the concessionaires send a fax to a delegation a generic no-date notification, and no cubic metres of emptying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u18	Mr. Dry! I'm sorry, president. Mr. Seco, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u19	And that's enough to say we're notified. We're in a state of law, Mr. Knight! It's the responsibility of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. And what they would have to do, first of all, would be to apologize again, fulfill their responsibility, Your Honor, and transfer the skills from Mine to Galicia. That would be what they would have to do immediately, that would be what they would have to do, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Knight, there's no way, it's impossible to take it seriously, it's impossible to take it seriously. He stops against the Union in the powers that do not depend on the Union, he throws at this Government to defend the indefensible, which is Mr. Sánchez. It's impossible to take it seriously, Your Honor. To hold Galician Union accountable for the emptying of the crowns that depend on the Central Government is an insult to Galician autonomy. Your Honor, to hold Galician Council responsible for the mess that you have set up with the absence of health planning, health legislation, being in a state of unconstitutional alarm for more than a year, and coming to teach about legal security is an insult to the intelligence of the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, you have to have a minimum personality to exercise the post of deputy, and much more as secretary general of a party. Don't worry, Your Honor, for acknowledging that the things that come together do well. We are the only autonomous community in Spain that has the support of the Supreme Court to issue with responsibility and proportionality a hidden certificate, the only one. We're one of the two autonomous communities that most vaccinated despite having fewer per capita vaccines than the average...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u20	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u21	Your Honor, those are the results. Defend Galicia! Don't you realize, Your Honor, that as delivered as you were ministers of the Government of Spain that no one now knows where they are?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u23	Learn the lesson, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u24	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u25	Defend Galicia! From the opposition we must defend Galicia, from the Government we must defend Galicia, and not come here... because it's impossible, and I honestly tell you, to have a minimally serious conversation with you. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u27	There's no way. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u28	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u29	...respect yourself a little more, Mr. Knight, and come here and talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u31	...of the real problems of the country and don't come here again to confuse and incur a government that fulfills its functions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u32	Thank you, Mr. President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u33	Mr. Knight, you have more opportunities but not many more. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u34	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to strengthen primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u35	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u36	Mr. Feijóo, you have now finished your intervention by recommending to the leader of the Socialist Party that defends Galicia. I'll tell him: apply the story and stop vetoing a Welsh electric tariff. Because yesterday only he came to this Parliament to vote against Galicia's interests. [[Applause]] The story applies, Mr Feijóo, and stop attacking our country's public health, because the truth is that it has led primary attention to a dramatic situation, which is what we are bringing to this debate today. And I want to start with a question, Mr. Feijóo: When are you going to lift the restrictions so that the Greeks and the Greeks will re-ask for presence appointments normally? Because, look, you've turned having a face-to-face appointment into a career of obstacles. There is a waiting list of up to twenty-one days, the presence consultations are limited by a coupon. To get an appointment, you have to go to the health center, glue and cross your fingers, waiting for some free to remain. Can you explain to us how an older person in our country who lives alone and who gets sick one day in the morning? How do you manage to overcome all these obstacles? And I don't want to tell you anything if that person lives in the countryside! So, Mr. Feijóo -- I insist -- when are you going to lift the restrictions and allow the Greeks and the Greeks to normally come to their health center? You've had twelve years of harassment and overthrow of public health, of primary care. And now he is committed to giving a letter of normality to what seemed impossible, which is to obstruct the presence consultation and that there is a waiting list up to the telephone. And it's such nonsense that you're not telling us how to strengthen health centers, but what you're considering is where to put the plan of the cuts. And so it dares to formulate as a goal this year that 60% of the consultations are present. What about the other 40%, Mr. Feijóo?, can't you get sick?, do you have to go to the emergency room? Or the question is that they go to private health care who can pay for it? Because I have to tell you that your cutting strategy is the best commercial campaign you could wish for private health. [[Applause]] Since the BNG we have steps to strengthen primary care and recover a right that has been lost with its government: that all the Greeks and the Greeks who ask you to be immediately and in a manner present by your head doctor without filters or obstacles, as it has always been and as it must be again. And for that we propose a battery of measures: first, an urgent shock investment of 200 million euros; second, a human resources plan in primary care -- more doctors and doctors are needed, more nurses, but open up the portfolio of services to other professionals, such as physical therapists or clinical psychologists -- third, to allocate 25% of Sergas' budget to primary care at the end of this legislation; and finally to end the precarious public health system. Call Sergas' vacant squares, Mr. Feijóo. Rectify, because people's health is the first and must be above all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pontón, I am very glad to have the opportunity to speak again about public health in this Parliament. You know it's one of the most satisfying subjects. Your Honor, may I once again express my thanks to all the staff for being the autonomous community, the second autonomous community, with more vaccination from Spain despite having a percentage of vaccines per population below the average of Spain. Your Honor, I would like to thank all the professionals for the work they have done throughout the summer, for the clinical committee, for the nursing staff and for the rest of the staff, because it is really quite surprising, Your Honor, that, despite being the most dispersed autonomous community in Spain, we are the first autonomous community in the first dose and the second one in a complete pattern throughout Spain. Your Honor, of course, the pandemic marked a time before and after in health management. They've found out all the countries of the world. BNG, no, BNG, obviously lives in another world -- in the decades before the 20th century --. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you come with the same mackerel constantly. Your Honor, you read the papers, I suppose, right? Perhaps he's interested in what happens in Catalonia: "Healthy people face the summer at the limit of their forces." Maybe he's interested in what's going on in Valencia: "Health centers one year in the forgetfulness." Perhaps he'll be interested in what happens in Extremeura: "The medical union warns that primary care is at the edge of the abyss." Or in Euskadi: "Primary care at the edge of collapse due to lack of personnel and increased workload." Or in Asturias: "To be treated is like touching the lottery." Your Honor, will all autonomic, nationalist or socialist presidents want to cut down on primary care or do we all have the same problem, which is that there are no doctors? Sounds more reasonable the second one, doesn't it? Because it's not only reasonable, it's true. And the problem we have -- and you should know and not do that demagogy -- is that all the answers to the proposals we made to all your partners and the Socialist Party were "no." At an extraordinary call from MIR for primary care, the answer from you and your partners was "no." At an extraordinary public job offer for all the vacant squares of the National Health System, the answer was "no." To an emergency doctor specializing in ordering emergencies in hospitals in primary care, the response of their partners was "no." Your Honor, why don't you accept reality? Look, Your Honor, primary care was during the pandemic, taking care of all the staff who were in their homes. We've had 22,000 active cases in Galicia, and 21,000 of them were treated in primary care through the Telea system, which is one of the few systems that exist in Europe that realize the vitals -- telephone concretion -- in a follow-up of patients when they don't need access. Do you know what BNG said about this system? They're decapitalizing public health personnel. At least we didn't listen to him, Your Honor. Look, we took 634 squares in primary care, 143 in OPE and 491 in MIR. It's the widest offer ever made. We doubled the investments. You speak of 200 million, and we're investing a lot more in primary care. Only in investments this year, EUR 54 million. If you went through Perero de Aguiar, The Road, Milladoiro, Paderne de Allariz, Melide, Narón or The Savina, or if you were to Cenlle, Cambados, Cee, Mondariz, Covelo, Ortigueira, The Bridges, Mugardos and Ribeira, you'd see that these 14 centers have started them last year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u40	...both young and expanding. Your Honor, if Galicia's primary care were interested and you weren't interested in simply distorting reality, you'd know we're with 40 centers at work. You ask me to do this when we're going to increase the presence in primary care. Well, I'll go through the vault for a second. Ask yourself when you can request face-to-face consultation. Reiterrollo, the presenceal consultation irremolla increasing immediately. And in the next few days, that I don't say months, in the next few days, the Greeks through the website or through the phone will regain the chances of requesting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u42	...see presence in Galicia. We'll probably be one of the first autonomous communities in Spain. [[Applause]] That's why, Mrs. Pontón, I respect Galicia a little more and respect the truth in public health. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u43	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u44	Mr. Feijóo, you're right when he says you're very predictable, because yes, every time there's a problem instead of looking for a solution, you're guilty. And now it turns out that it's been twelve years ruling and the public health problems are the fault of the BNG, of Ana Pontón. Mr. Feijóo, this is an authentic coat of hair, and these statements are the only statements that the whale is its incapacity and are, of course, an acknowledgement of the failure of its management in the field of health. [[Applause]] And, look, we of course thank the health personnel for the effort they've made. And that's why we denounced the attacks that his government had made on them when it blamed them for the problems that were in primary care. And if you really want to thank professionals for their efforts, listen to them; because they and they are the ones who are claiming more means, who cover the casualties, who are treated with dignity and who leave out the precariousness that you installed in Sergas. That, Mr. Feijóo, is to respect and thank the public health professionals for their efforts, the rest of them -- and I'm going to use that sesudad expression that you gave us today -- it's a mackerel -- by the way, the people's always mackerel --. [[Applause]] Because, look, if the situation is so good, why do we have the country from top to bottom with protests from staff and patients because they feel helpless by their cuts in primary care? And the truth is this isn't a problem right now, because the dismantling of primary care came from afar, Mr. Feijóo. Or don't we remember the block resignation of all primary care chiefs in Vigo? Don't we remember people's massive mobilizations on the street? Don't we remember, Mr. Feijóo, your attempt to close a Parish in Verín? Do you think we forgot what he said they'd do with less? Of course, Mr. Feijóo, if today's mobilisations and protests by the health personnel -- who even denounced him through the criminal procedure at the College of Doctors in Pontevedra -- is because we have a public health problem. And to come here to tell us that it's okay to take the hair of this Parliament and -- the most serious -- to the Greeks and the Greeks who are seeing as they are deprived of a fundamental right, which is the right to health. And for that, strong public health is needed. [[Applause]] And I ask you again to take action, to recover the presence already. Secondly, a shock plan for primary care of EUR 200 million. Third, more means, because with stable contracts and non-preferential contracts, the doctors who emigrated from this country will return, Mr Feijóo. And it can expand the portfolio of primary services to other specialties, from physiotherapy to clinical psychology -- which is a good lack of impact on the mental health of people in this country --. It can do a lot more and, above all, it can rectify a policy that placed primary care in the collapse. Admit it, Mr. Feijóo, work to improve public health and stop being the best commercial in private health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question. President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u46	Mrs. Pontón, you know perfectly well that we've been asking for permission for extraordinary public job offers to prevent us from making the general government budget laws. You know it perfectly well. I asked him with the government of Zapatero, I asked him with the government of Rajoy, and I continue to ask him with the government of Sánchez -- his partners, Your Honor, his partners --. You come here to bring a problem that exists throughout Spain and to hold those we are fighting to solve the problem. It's perfect, Your Honor, your partners prevent us from having an extraordinary MIR call, your partners prevent us from taking out all the vacant squares, your partners vote but not to create an emergency service and specialty. And you come here to rejuvenate the "no" of your partners and lament it. Of course, you don't think that the Greeks don't realize their permanent contradictions. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, you have been asking for 200 million euros more in primary since 2018. The truth is that BNG's proposals are always continued over time. Well, look, obviously, the primary budget since 2018 has grown 200 million euros. Why don't you change your proposal and, for example, you add to asking for 200 more MIR squares of primary care for Galicia? That's how we'll solve the problem. Any doctor who lives in Galicia, any doctor who lives in Spain, and wants to work in a primary health care center, is hired before the end of this control session. But why do they come again to poison the Welsh Health Service when it's one of Europe's best health services? And let's see it and contrast it during the pandemic. How can we cut off Europe's best health service when it has the best ratios in Europe?Oh, my God! Your Honor, what we have been doing all these years has been strengthening the Galego Health Service in primary care, specialized care, technology, infrastructure, from a technological and computer point of view. But why don't you rejoice, why don't you celebrate, Your Honor? Are you going to ask the BNG once and for all its partners -- who governs in cities, in deputies -- who allow an extraordinary MIR to be summoned? But how hard is it? There are 6,000 people who haven't passed the last MIR, why don't we take 2,000 of those 6,000 places for primary care across the National Health System? That's the proposal we've been working on constantly and continuously. But, Your Honor, why are you talking about cuts when we're expanding the budget? There has never been such a presupposition in primary care, there has been so much presupposition in the Galician Health Service, there have never been so many people working in public health. When we arrived, when you pressed the "yes" to the Government, there were 36,000 people, now there are 42,000. This is 17% more, 6,000 more people working in Sergas. Why do you say we have cutbacks when it turns out that what we're doing is increasing the template, increasing the technology, increasing the infrastructure. We have a structural problem and, far from helping us, what they're doing is they're preventing us from solving the problem to take responsibility for that problem. I repeat again: is the lehendakari or the president of any of the autonomous communities I have just mentioned against primary care, Mrs Pontón? Is left Republican Catalonia -- its partner -- and Bildu -- its partner -- against primary care? No, I shouldn't laugh, because you go with them in the papers and rule with the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u48	They should not laugh and indeed open a reflection, Your Honor. You open up the reflection of the permanent and constant internal contradiction of the Galician Nationalist Block. Your Honor, if you thought more about Galicia and less about the UPG, we could... No, no, I know they laugh at the UPG, but Mrs. Pontón is very worried about the UPG. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u50	I say, if they thought a little more, we could, without any doubt, work a little more for Galicia. Look, in primary care, even though we don't have enough MIR squares, we took 113 more doctors than we had in the year that we started in 2020 -- the reference --. And in total, primary care in Galicia works 600 more people. That's the data, Your Honor, the rest are the answers. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u51	Thank you, President. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, as I'm interested in joining the country, and what I'm interested in is trying to work for the country, I'd like to take this last second to thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u54	...to a united government that stays united.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u55	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u56	And how for this government its maximum competence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u58	...is to rule the country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u59	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u60	...I have come to transfer to Parliament -- Mr President -- the Government's decision to give up its minutes of Members and Members to make the Government available to 100 percent. Right, Your Honor, could we have a united government? He would be incapable, Mrs. Pontón, of being incapable, Mr. Caballero, that his government could hand over the minutes to dedicate itself exclusively to the Government. And that's why I want to thank all the advisors in this last session... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u62	...and all the advisors who renounce their records to devote themselves exclusively to the Government -- except for the two vice presidents --. I am very proud to preside over a united government and a government for which only aim is Galicia, ladies and gentlemen. Galicia, Galicia and Galicia! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u63	Now we continue with a change of agenda, we move on to a question, a question by Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the lodgings for pilgrims and pilgrims while the hostels continue with the reduced occupation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u64	Whenever you want, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u65	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Vice President. First of all, I mean the verbena sector is out. Mr. Wheel, I could go hear them. Well, the health measures to try to control the progress of the fifth coronavirus strike have made it necessary to further reduce the squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u66	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Gallego. Time is not counted. Let's wait until there's some quiet so the question can be asked. Please be quiet, because if you don't, we can't continue with the full. [[Pause.]] Whenever you want, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u67	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you again. Good morning, Vice President. Well, as I was saying, the vervain sector is out there. You could go hear them, Mr. Rueda. Well, the sanitary measures to try to control the progress of the fifth wave in the coronavirus made it necessary to further reduce the squares in the pilgrims' shelters, which created a serious problem for the people who were making the Santiago Way and who wanted to stay in those shelters. During the week of July 19th, many lodgers hung up the "complete" sign, and even had to coordinate among them all to try to give shelter to all pilgrims and pilgrims who sought a place to spend the night. Thousands of pilgrims and pilgrims are coming to our land and are having serious problems staying in the shelters. Many even ask to sleep on the floor and some even slept in automatic boxes in the face of despair. In July they've already warned the government from the shelters that there were many reservations for the summer, and they haven't done anything since the government. There is a great campaign of Jacob and then the pilgrims come and have nowhere to sleep. This is a lack of total foresight on the part of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] And it's good to see you now that the same thing is going to happen, because from September 15 until October 15th, the shelters are re-reserved again. As they don't allow the shelter to be extended or they don't look for an alternative, pilgrims won't have anywhere to sleep again. The Socialist Parliamentary Group called on the Galician Union to give an urgent solution to these thousands of pilgrims and pilgrims who are making the way of Santiago and find themselves in the problem of having nowhere to spend the night, which creates discomfort and complaints from tourists. This picture is neither good for tourism nor for Jacob or Galicia; just as it is not good for those pilgrims who did not find where to eat when arriving in Santiago for the limitations of the places, and who left angry; and just like it is not good for the image of the group of travelers of Burgos, with a boat to the Cies reserved from June, that when arriving in Vigo in August to visit the Cyes Islands they find that the trip is cancelled because the coupon to the Cyes is closed. All these tourists will not return to Galicia for the bad organization, for the lack of coordination and for the null planning of their government, Mr. Rueda. [[Applause]] The self-government would have to have a forecast, a plan, in case at some point this happened. It was pretty predictable that in a pandemic like we're going through this. In the face of this problem we find ourselves, there is no alternative for the tourists who are making the way to Santiago to have a place to spend the night. What solution will the Galician Union give these pilgrims? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u68	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Gallego. So, if I understood correctly -- and I'm glad that I recognized him in his own way -- the Jacobeo is doing well. It's okay, isn't it? [[Murmurs.]] I'm saying this because I'm sure, if not, your question would be about the disaster in Galician Union, that you couldn't get pilgrims in a fundamental year for recovery, for the resurgence, that we weren't able to bring them, we misplanned, we made a bad campaign... and you said here we had a very good campaign that brought many pilgrims. And now we're going with part two. I say this because the first, in the first months, was to say that we were not doing anything, that there was no programming, that there was no planning and that Jacob was going to be an absolute failure. Then, the figures -- and I'm glad you don't discuss them -- you deny everything they said, which is all the opposite. So, I'm glad we're talking about the fundamental: that 110,000 compounds have already been delivered in the last three months -- I calculate that they will be around no less than 150,000 pilgrims -- that there have been millions of tourists and that you cite very timely cases. I'm not going in. I could explain it too, and if you like, if you ask me a question to talk about a specific case you said, I'd be glad to explain it to you so you can see that it's not what you're saying. But I'm glad they're anecdotes within the millions of people who have arrived in Galicia. That means things were good, and this is because of a lot of reasons. The first is the image of the Xacobeo brand, which, without any doubt, takes out of the country and takes out of the tourism. In the end, people are not so stupid, and I'm glad that those campaigns of "racing with Jacob" from their partners -- that you never disqualified --, first of all, people have been stunned; secondly, they laughed at you; and thirdly, they passed directly. I'm saying this because, since we're talking about Jacob, let's talk about why people come here and what their conditions are. The second reason for this success I'm sure that the first ones coming here have the true and real feeling -- with an appropriate campaign that was done in collaboration with the sector -- that Galicia is a secure destination and that, therefore, making the Way is also a safe activity. And that's why so many people come here, so many people, who might have thought of going to other places, eventually decided to come to Galicia as a tourist or to make the way. From there come those figures that you -- I suppose -- and I, of course -- as representative of the Board -- we celebrate. And this is because we did the right thing. You in your question tell me things that aren't like that. I'm sorry to tell you, but you have to document yourself well. There are no 30 % and no 50 % hostels. First, they were all 30%, then they were all 50%. And we talked a lot to the sector and we planned this. We decided not to open public hostels until the number of squares and the number of reservations had been filled in private. And we did it according to them. And we knew that at some point -- like in a year without restrictions, with more pilgrims still -- there would be peaks where it would be very difficult to accommodate people. But you know what I'm telling you, Mrs. Gallego? That we can do it, in front of some troublemakers -- and I don't mean some, which I think no one would want that --. Some were waiting, and I didn't see them very worried, that there were finally contagions on the Road, that there was some kind of problem and if it became an activity that, instead of calling more and more people, would throw many people away because there was no security. We got all that, we were responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u71	It's very easy to demagogy. You're clear that you don't realize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u72	Thank you, Vice President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u73	...of what was the reason for the success of the Way. We're gonna go the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u74	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u75	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, don't deviate from the subject. What are you going to do with the shelters? What will you do with this problem? Don't deviate from the subject. Anecdotes? Anecdotes, no; those anecdotes have made many people not return to Galicia, they are not anecdotes. It's a real problem that's happening now in Galicia. What's going to happen to people who have nowhere to sleep in the shelters? Don't deviate from the subject. If they did the right thing, it wouldn't happen, obviously. I mean, we talk to the lodgers and tell us they're going to have a problem again in September and October. What are you going to do? What's the alternative? Tell us now. What's wrong? That you in your government are in constant improvisation, in improvisation in tourism, in the hostel, at nightlife. Even today the hosts say, "We don't know what to do anymore, so we can't work." It's a constant improvisation. We have to go to get fewer restrictions on the lodges at night's leisure. At the hostel it seems that from now on the thing will be less restricted. We entered a new stage in this pandemic with more than 70% of the vaccinated population. By the way, I would like to recall that President Feijóo has said several times that he would not be in the summer 70% of the vaccinated population. And this population is vaccinated thanks to the government of Pedro Sánchez, even though you don't like it. But yes, thanks to the government of Pedro Sánchez. This is the disloyalty of Mr Feijóo's government with the Government of Spain, total, total disloyalty! [[Applause]] And the utmost disloyalty was with the presentation of the state plan of Xacobeo, which was introduced on July 29 and that neither you nor Mr Feijóo came to this presentation of the plan; a plan that you said in this Chamber again and again that would not be presented in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] He was introduced here in Santiago with the Minister of Tourism. You also said here in this parliamentary headquarters that there was no investment either. And if there is, there's an investment of 25 million euros from the Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u76	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Mr President-in-Office, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u77	Tell me not to deviate from the subject and tell me here that... [[Pause.]] Well, now I hope the time comes. I was told, Mrs. Gallego, don't distract me from the subject. And it turns out you're going to my vaccines. Thank you very much, Mr. Sánchez, for also vaccinating the PP. We are very grateful. I use to tell you. [[Laughter]] Of course, we're very grateful. [[Applause]] Look, Jacobbeo introduced himself to Asturias, and that's why we haven't been. Sounds like a lie you don't know. It is that the presentation of the Jacobean Plan was in Asturias, and then come second, third and fourth parts that are very good, but if you find that normal, we, of course, don't. And we think it's a lack of consideration for the autonomous community. And then that's also seen in investments. I'm glad you tell us it's 25. The minister said it was 120. We're downhill now. For now it's zero, for now it's zero, eh! [[Murmurs.]] If you get to 25, for something is something. And then, look, Mrs. Gallego, there are two ways of talking about Jacob: by helping out and saying the things that can be improved, by trying to improve them, or by giving them this sense of alarm. Because you finally think that Jacob is doing well, and, as Junta is pulling away from Jacob and that's good for Junta, it suits the PP, because we have to counteract all this and say that things are not going well. If you don't, you don't really understand your attitude, you don't understand your contradiction. You're from Vigo. Do you know that Vigo's municipal government is saying it's against -- because we're on a question of shelters that you make me and that it says there are few hostels and few squares -- that we open Vigo's hostel because it says it's an unfair competition with the hostel and that public hostels shouldn't exist? But what are we left with, Mrs. Gallego? Do you realize how inconsistent your arguments are? But they fall for their own weight! Hostels if or shelters aren't they? Is it as much offer as possible if or as much offer as possible? Because, if there's little offer, then it moves an image -- which is false -- and that's good for you because Jacob would not be so good, and it looks like that they're taking some benefit from it. Do you realize what this is all about? Do you realize that we have to support this among all of us? They first created alarmism by saying that pilgrims would not come, then they create alarmism by saying that they have nowhere to sleep and that everything was chaos. Less bad than the people who make the Way, the people who work professionally on this, logically say that the better I get. I don't know if they're talking to you. From now on they talk to us and tell us that security is first and foremost. And they understand the restrictions to keep that jewel, which is safety on the Way, which is fundamental to the success that we have. And, of course, as soon as possible, you have to go up. We went up from 30 % to 50 %. We are already at the level of other autonomous communities. And by the way, they have the same problems. That means that the Way also throws in other autonomous communities, and we're delighted that people passing through other autonomous communities eventually arrive in Galicia. And they also have trouble running -- some governed by the Socialist Party, which we talk to, and we try to coordinate as well --. Because, look, unlike what you're doing here, people who have government responsibilities -- socialists in other communities -- understand that what we have to do is talk about the Way well, tell the people who come, there's security, that there may be inconveniences from the pandemic, but that all this is going to be solved. We're right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u78	Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u79	It's over now, President. A few more seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u80	No, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u81	In a pilot test with the shelters...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u82	Thank you. Time's up. The interruption is already compensated. [[The Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We're still on the agenda. Now we're moving to the fifth point already, which is that of interpellations. Question by Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the naval sector of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u83	Mrs González Iglesias has the floor to formulate the interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Barriers, Vulcan and now Metalships, the three largest shipyards in the Vigo River, are in a very worrying situation. Barriers is for sale at the price of a euro, waiting for a buyer to appear who takes charge of the yard and the charges he carries with it, which are not few. Since Evrima left the yard in March to be completed at Santander, the eventual staff of the yard and all the workers of the auxiliary companies operating at Evrima are not active and the staff have made a ERA that runs the risk of becoming an extinct ERA. Barreras is without workload or demand perspective, because there is no technical office that enables them, and he has millions of debts to the auxiliary industry. With this picture, prospects are tragic. But the Barreras crisis is not a consequence of the pandemic, Barreras has been in crisis for ten years; a crisis that worsened with the landing in Vigo in 2013 of Pemex by the hands of the Galician Union, a landing that went wrong, counselor, because Pemex was a lie. He made it in that live TVG retransmitted presentation he promised two fleets, fourteen tugs, two chemists, a pond ship, a logistics base in Punta Langosteira and a second fleet announced for the Vigo River; and that this would involve the creation of 2,500 jobs, a real mana. Of all this, there were only two fleets left, one in Barreras and the other in Navantia, and one millionaire debt. Yes, what was to be the definitive rescue of the yard ended up being a bluff, a mistake, a real failure, and ended with the investigation of Pemex for corruption and the arrest of a manager. President Feijóo put the state's largest private yard in the hands of corrupts. At the end of 2019, Pemex handed over his participation from Barriers to Ritz Carlton, who took control of the company and became a client, with the sole objective of finishing the luxury cruise of his property that was being built on the yard. The debt multiplied and, once Evrima left Vigo to be finished at Santander, before it was the usual operation, Ritz Carlton abandoned Barreras leaving a consultant in charge of selling the yard. Barriers is the state's largest private yard and this new crisis seriously compromises its continuity, with a real risk of liquidation. The second leg of the bank is the San Enrique shipyard, the old Vulcan. He is waiting for the Port Authority of Vigo to allow him to use the water sheet provisionally until the invitation to tender is settled for his final concession. In July, this Plenary agreed, on the initiative of the BNG, to urge the Harbour Authority and the members of the Board of Directors of the Port of Vigo to vote in favour of this authorization and to allow the new demands for the concession to condition their adjudication to an industrial project dedicated to construction and/or ship repair. But today the San Enrique shipyard is still waiting for provisional authorization to resume its activity. And now these two yards are made up of Metalships, which is out of work and no expectation that it will have. The situation of these three shipyards puts the sector in Vigo and its region in a critical situation. Nowhere else can you find an ecosystem of assistants and suppliers such as what the Vigilized Naval Industry owns, by the number of companies and by the variety of services they offer. This industrial fabric depends to a large extent on the workload of Barreras, San Enrique and Metalships, and its disappearance will result in the loss of many jobs and impact on the city's economy. The naval sector in the city of Vigo and its region has come to represent about 10,000 jobs, and currently the employment it generates is only over one thousand, in a situation where the last active population survey finds that in Vigo there are 6,200 industrial jobs less than in 2009. In this very worrisome situation the Galician Union continues to take the lead in resolving this crisis. It's just getting profiled and looking for guilty. In recent days President Feijóo repeated his commitment to continue to accompany this industry, and he called on the Government of the State a recovery plan for the naval. Company is not what the naval sector of Vigo, Counsellor, needs at this time decided political moments that aim at a strategic sector for Vigo and for Galicia. Counsellor -- I've told you on one occasion -- you're in charge, you're the Economics, Business and Innovation advisor, and even though you forgot to include it in the title of the Council, you have skills in industry in Galicia. They face this crisis, they stop looking for culprits, they throw balloons out, they assume their responsibilities and put in place that plan that they claim for the German naval sector. As a strategic industry for our country, it is necessary for the Galician Union to master a project of which all members of the sector -- trade unions, employers, employers, universities and government --. Call the naval table to mark the course leading the Welsh naval sector to the world's top positions and can compete on an equal footing. "We must support the ship to advance, modernize and implement new technologies applicable to its processes in order to develop new prototypes." This doesn't say BNG -- as you can imagine -- says Soermar Technology Center, in Madrid. And it's very sad that a strategic activity for Galicia -- as you and the Galician Union well know -- has no reference technology in the country, that there is no stake in R & D+i in the naval sector, that there is no bet on technology to compete in the international market. The German president, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, is right when he says it's urgent to put in place a strategic plan for the German naval sector. BNG agrees with the president. Now, whoever has to put it into action is the German Government. What are they waiting for? PP has to stop sending balloons out, stop looking for culprits and get to work. The clock doesn't stop, it's urgent to trace a roadmap that guarantees the future for the Welsh naval industry, for all of our country's shipyards without leaving any trace. It's childish, pathetic, outrageous -- I don't know very well what adjective to put on -- to hear the continuing readings and discussions that keep the German Government and the Central Government. You remind me of the fights my teenage children have -- and I imagine most of them will understand what I'm saying -- when you send them to do some errands and say, "Well!, it's up to you, I went yesterday." I always go! It's your fault! Here you act exactly the same. The Galicians and the Greeks are starting to be fed up with this continuous "pim pam pum" they keep. They've left our country on such important issues as this. But despite the fact that the BNG would like to have its own sovereignty, the solution for the galley ship must come from the hand of the German Government and the Government of the State. But it's the German Government, the PP government, who promised to work for "Galicia Galicia Galicia." And it's who has to take fear and defend Galician interests in Madrid, and what has to jump for the future of the Welsh naval sector. Counselor, is the German Government already working on that strategic project that President Feijóo speaks of? What measures are you taking your advice to avoid the disappearance of Barriers? Do you discard the Galician board of participation mechanisms to consolidate the barrier yard and the naval sector of Vigo? Do you intend to encourage the creation of a naval table in the Vigo River with the participation of the Central Government and the most representative trade union and business organizations to look for effective solutions that block the continuity of the sector? I hope you answer our questions this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u85	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Advisor, Fr Francisco Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs González, I would like to thank you for bringing this Parliament a debate on the shipbuilding sector, a debate that logically has to seek solutions for the sector, solutions for the workers and therefore work to further consolidate a strategic sector that has a situation at this time of difficulty -- to a large extent also because of the changes that are taking place worldwide from the point of view of demand --. But logically Galicia will not give up on this strategic sector from the point of view of its productive fabric. And, therefore, at the heart of this debate will always be the situation of workers, the situation of companies and how we can push these measures. What I would ask you to bring this debate to Parliament is whether you better inform yourself or be brave and tell the workers, for which we have to identify these measures, the truth. This is probably a good example of how the Galician Nationalist Block maintains its contradictions from an industrial policy point of view. We've seen it before in the question with the president on health, and these contradictions are also brought about by industrial policy and by the naval sector. He knows that Navantia is a shipyard that depends solely on the Government of the State. And so all the measures, from that point of view, not only for Navantia but also for the impact they have on the auxiliary industry and also for the auxiliary industry that works in the Vigo River, because logically they depend on the government. Secondly, the Galician Nationalist Block -- and if I didn't know, I remind you -- has signed a legislative agreement with that Government that you are unable to enforce. I want to transfer to you or that I say this legislative agreement between the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Party: "A special attention will be paid to the naval industry that articulates the production of wealth and employment in the areas of Vigo and Ferrol, recovering the activity of Barreras and Vulcan, and turning Navantia into an integral industrial complex that supports its activity in the construction of civil naval". I think it's a good opportunity for the Galician Nationalist Block to assume its failure. I don't know with what kind of psychological analysis from the point of view of adolescence and how the young ones react to these types of situations, but if they started to assume the Galician Nationalist Block their failure from that alliance that they have in the naval sector with the Government they are supporting, because surely we could find solutions. Thirdly, Mrs. González, in March of this year -- we're in September -- the Galician Board sent a letter to the Ministry of Farm, responsible for SEPI. And already in March we asked the Government to commit the solvency funds that were set up in the framework of the recovery of the vault for the defence of our naval industry on an equal basis of conditions that they were making and are still doing the rest of the European countries. We also asked Sepi to resolve in time and in form the request for funding that at that time -- the month of March -- she had requested Sepi's barriers to ensure the financing and continuity of the yard. And we also asked Sepi to commit the dry dam and other necessary investments so that Navantia-Ferrol could compete on equal terms at the international level -- requests all of them, Your Honor, that we have moved in addition to all the members of the Council of Ministers with whom we had the opportunity to meet, including President Sánchez, who you support, and who have always had the same result, silence --. I don't know where it is clearly the defense position of the Galician Nationalist Block in the naval sector. The last example -- if I may -- we had it last Tuesday in the 6th Commission of this Parliament. The Galician Nationalist Bloc, which a day earlier had announced the bomb and plate a political offensive to enforce Galicia, because it did not support the construction of a BAM for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia in Ferrol. Nor is he supporting a pact of State for Ferrol, consensual to economic and social agents, so that a joint response can be given by both administrations precisely to protect employment and industrial fabric -- also looking at Ferrolterra --. The same thing happened in July and March, Mrs. González. The Galego Nationalist Block continues without supporting the viability and financing of the naval industry through the European Funds Next Generation. It remains without supporting and compromising the sector in its complaint to the European Union so that the principle of equality can be guaranteed in the aid that other Member States are providing for this sector. I believe, Mrs González, that it is clear that this Government has a desire to agree on measures for the shipbuilding sector in this Parliament. And it's very obvious the situation we have on the part of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is simply using the naval sector to confront, not to find measures or to support this Government to push those measures, which necessarily have to be shared and in collaboration with other administrations. And that's the vocation of this Government. You put the letters on the table, I must also remind you, Your Honor, that the Galician Union has acted at all times with transparency and with the highest commitment to support the sector. We made it available to the central government to work together to identify a solution. I did it myself and I transferred to the Ministry of Industry that proposal to work together on the loan that I was applying for Barreras in March. Answer? Quiet. It was done by the Government of Galician Union committing an 8 million-euro departure, which was the support, Mrs González, who requested the owner of the yard himself to Galician Union. And the only thing the Government did in this case was to apply the regulations and in no case to respond to what the yard needed. We will continue to maintain our commitment to the search for a viable exit to Barriers. It's our obligation, it's our commitment, it's our responsibility. And, of course, that commitment is unbreakable. Our offer of support continues to be open through participatory loans or through participation in capital. So we moved it from the first moment to the yard and so we move it in this context of finding a new partner. The only thing we need, Mrs González, is that there is a new project that can push a change of direction on this yard and that maximum guarantees can be reached for both the workers and the auxiliary industry. And in that work and commitment of the Galician Union, from a financial point of view, we are logically going to continue to work with the Government of the State so that it can support its mechanisms and instruments -- which have them not only for the support of the naval sector but for other sectors -- and to be able to work together. Because that's exactly what the workers are asking us to do, work together with the government of the state, with the central government, to find a solution. That engagement is not new. That's how we do it with Barriers and the naval sector. I regret that you are so vehemently and so little respectful of what this Government has done for the naval sector. I believe that honestly does not respond to reality, simply responds to your vocation to confront the Government to say that they are supporting the sector. We facilitated workload when very few were betting on the Greek naval in 2012, we facilitated the capitalization of the yard when it needed to develop and diversify its productive capacity. And we also made it easier, Your Honor, in 2017 for funding to be able to assume the construction of the fleet. That vocation is in the different lines that we are pushing in the field of training, in the field of innovation. I'm surprised you don't know the support of this government, the Galician Union, the momentum of innovation through six projects of mixed units, with 16 million euros mobilisation, and the smart factory line itself, with support from Navantia that is allowing to mobilize 10 million euros for the development of the Digital Twin. We'll keep working and we'll do it with economic and social agents. And we have the framework, Mrs González, the Galego Council of Economics and Competitiveness Industry Committee, which is where we are working with economic and social agents, precisely to consensual with them also these measures in the field of training, innovation, diversification and financing that we are going to push to find this future for the workers of Barreras, of Vulcano and of Metalships, for the workers of the shipbuilding industry as a whole, because that is our commitment and also our responsibility. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u87	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u88	Thank you, President. I think the People's Party is suffering a serious identity crisis. They're not very clear whether they're government or opposition, because really every time they get up here, they're going to oppose BNG, they're going to criticise the BNG's present interpelerations, proposals, and they're bothering them and pulling out their colors. [[Applause]] We are pleased that you have brought this matter here. You bring him here, you take him to Madrid! I do not know any initiative by any member of the People's Party in Congress to take an initiative for the Government to implement this plan. Do it! We do our job, which is to bring here and bring to Congress Members the problem of the Vigo naval sector and the problem of job losses in the city of Vigo. You're talking about taking part in loans, you're talking about helping out. At the BNG we've been saying that that's not the solution for the naval. We can't keep dropping money to fill our pockets with private businessmen. They come to be part of the Barrier Management Board, trust the buyers. Do you think this is a good thing for Barreras to go hand in hand, from buyer to buyer, without a stable project? If they're willing to have a stable project in Barreras, they go into the capital -- which they already have -- because there are loans from the Union and the State granted -- and they take an active stance. They enter and form part of that board of directors and participate in the search for a solvent project and that the buyer is someone who brings a project that takes the ship of Vigo to where he has to go. The reality is more than anything else, the reality is that you've been ruling in Galicia for 12 years, and in these 12 years, the naval sector has lost thousands of jobs, lost the best qualified professionals -- who had to emigrate and now work for Europe ahead -- and lost leadership in the shipbuilding we had in the state. With you in the Government, what's clear is that the naval sector has lost. And it's time for that to stop being like that. It's time that this project with the Government of the State, with respect to what you say you're willing to collaborate, leaves Galician Union. Don't wait for them to bring it, don't say you have to. Do it, prepare the project, go to Madrid, present it at the table and say: we want you to support this. Maybe it works, maybe changing strategy works. Of course, the BNG will continue to go to Madrid and demand the same from the Government as we demand here: that each one do his work. Because they both have to do a job to save the naval sector from the Vigo River, the Vigo County and all of Galicia. You were talking about not cooperating at the BNG. BNG comes here to transfer the petitions of the Greeks and the Greeks. For Navantia we want diversity of work and we always defend it that way. We're not going to argue that only military ships will be made in Navantia. Neither do you support our initiatives. Why can't we have diversity in Navantia? I'm not going to say anything else because I think it's quite clear that you're going to pursue the same policy as you have so far, to be accompanied, to wait for the Government of the State to present that industrial plan that you have to present and that, if you don't, it won't make the naval sector move forward. BNG will support all the initiatives that lead the naval sector to the future, but we will not support that since the Government of Galicia continues with the passivity with which they have been twelve years and do nothing to make that naval sector move forward and have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u89	Thank you, Mrs. González. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the question, Mr. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs González, of course, as I have already moved to you, I am grateful that we can talk about the naval sector, but I ask you a little bit of rigour in the proposals. You tell me about Navantia. Of course, we can fully support the initiatives of the Galician Nationalist Block. What we are not going to support, Mrs González, is a proposal by the Galician Nationalist Block that talks about supporting the Navantia naval sector in civil construction, because you obey the military and we don't. We argue that Navantia has the capacity to push civil and military construction. As long as you want to close Navantia from the point of view of military construction, we will not support these kinds of initiatives; permanent contradictions with those you want to confuse, they want to confuse sadly in that debate that you want to lead to the politician, and that the workers and the Union want to lead to the economics. I don't know what your proposal is. What are you proposing to me, nationalizing Barriers? Because that's what your proposal looks like. We are clearly in favour of participating in the capital of Barreras if the industrial partner with the ability to develop this project considers it appropriate. And we have shown our commitment to do so, and our commitment to grant loans. But if you're either proposing me the nationalization of the yard or what they did with Alfageme -- 32 million euros deeply lost knowing that there wasn't an industrial project, a failure of 32 million euros that had to pay the Greeks and the Greeks -- if you're proposing either of these two initiatives, don't tell the Galician board. If what you're proposing to me is that we work in collaboration with the yard's property, because the yard has a owner, if you're asking me to work with the owner of the yard to find, to identify, an industrial project that is solvent and gives maintenance and future guarantees to the yard, the Galician Board has already moved them to the Barreras owners that it will continue to support; it will continue to support with its financial instruments, which will continue to support with its training tools, with its innovation tools and with all those aspects that may be required. But logically, that's the way we understand that it has economic coherence, from an industrial point of view, and that it can guarantee the workers' future. And the only thing we're asking the Government for is collaboration, we're not transferring any kind of competence from the autonomous community. But it is that Sepi, Mrs González, has a solvency fund of EUR 10 billion which, in the context of economic recovery, we are asking you to apply to the naval sector on a priority basis and on an equal basis of conditions with which other European countries, such as Germany, like France or the Netherlands, are supporting their shipyards. In March there was an application for Barriers and SEPI was collapsed. Sepi is not responding, and you are supporting that government. We only call for collaboration, collaboration with the instruments that the Government has so that we can collaborate in this kind of situation. And so we're not going to shift any kind of skills. What we ask of the Galician Nationalist Block is very simple things, Mrs. González, very simple things that we think a responsible political group in the opposition, in the context of the naval sector, should support. We ask them to support the sector so they can access those solvency funds. We call on you to support the Government's ability to develop and compromise the specific PERT of the naval sector, which is designed and agreed with the autonomous communities, which compromises it. He's only engaged in the automotive sector. We ask him to compromise that of the naval sector. Help us. And we also ask you to make a clear commitment to the stability of Barriers to provide certainty. What part of these requests from the Government of Galicia does it seem to you that it is not assumed by the Galician Nationalist Block thinking of the workers? What we also ask of the Galego Nationalist Block is that it generates the right climate so that in this context we can find this industrial project. And the right climate is not only economic and business, agents and workers, it's also politicians. And the Galego Nationalist Block, that's all right, that's all right, start working on Galician industrial fabric and defending industrial employment in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u91	Thank you, Vice President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] The debate is over, quiet. Quiet, the debate is over. This debate is over! Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, the injections are for something else, let's not talk about injections now, that we might get dizzy. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Agenda change. Accumulation of two interpelerations for their joint formulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u92	Let's go with the cumulative debate of two interpellations. In this case there are the interpellations 5.2 and 5.3. In particular, one is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado; and another is at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, of Mrs. Montse Prado. Both of them are on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of primary care. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of presence in primary care Ms Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo's inquiry and the remaining eighteen Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u93	He begins by making an appeal, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. You're going to excuse me, don't take me wrong, but I wanted to dedicate the first seconds of the intervention to remember that today, during the questions to the president, Mr. Feijóo said that we are the autonomous community that fewer vaccines receive per inhabitant, along with Catalonia -- I think he quoted-- Look, I think it's very important to be decent in politics, very important, and, to be decent, one has several ways, and the first is not to lie. My personal opinion has no value in this sense, but mine with regard to the institution of the Presidency of the Council of Galicia is such that I am so relieved to hear something as crude, as bad and as miserable as that. This is the graph now made, with the latest data of less than 24 hours ago, about the distribution of vaccines per inhabitant in Spain. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows a graph.]] We're probably in the middle; a little bit above, but in the middle. And besides, almost all autonomous communities, almost all of them -- the two that see the largest are Ceuta and Melilla, which are not autonomous communities, they are autonomous cities, and which, in addition, have other management -- they are in the same data, with some variations. We are not the worst, nor the second worst, nor the third, nor the fourth, nor the fifth, nor the sixth, nor the seventh. This is the data. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela raises the graph.]] What Mr. Feijóo said, probably knowing he was lying, is from an indecency that he is not up to the institution he has, and besides, Mr. President, I would appreciate it if he had passed the report to Mr. Feijó and, if he doesn't know how to see the data, we explained to him what column they are in. [[Applause]] He showed today he doesn't know. I'd rather think you can't see them because... yes, yes, I would... I'd rather think you can't see them, because if you know how to see them, you mean you lied, and I have a feeling that the president of the board shouldn't lie. [[Murmurs.]] Neither do I, and that's why I don't lie, and the president of the board, today, yes. [[Murmurs.]] So let's go to the question, which is primary attention, which is a relevant topic. Counsellor, we've had a lot of discussion on the matter. Let me take a brief, very brief, twelve-year-old People's Party government review. In a couple of minutes talking about twelve years, I'm going to be a little short of time, but it's 1,000 professionals less. From the 2009 budget, when government Feijóo entered the 2021 budget, there are EUR 140 million less this year than that. If we do the accumulation of everything lost, it's around 2,000 million euros -- around the top of the 2,000 million euros--: 150 MIR squares of Family and Community Medicine that could be requested and that you gave up -- because you weren't aware that we needed the MIR squares, as we're going to need, in addition to, especially in the next few years, by the retirement boom--; 131 Family and Community Nursing -- you're assuming a lot of promoting Family and Community Medicine -- that we could ask, that they were enabled, and they didn't ask. You gave up asking. All this in 12 years. Judicial rulings on improper recruitment -- "fraudual," I literally read, knows that there are, and that's why I quote it, with heart pain--; block resignations from heads of service who were not able to reboot; medical schools that mark Galician Union. These days the Medical College of Ourense signs them as responsible. Today we know from the press what we've known these days by the press releases of the College of Doctors of the Province of Coruña, that they're going to warn at work and claim that someone's going to cut off their saturation problem. And legal complaint from the Medical College of the province of Pontevedra. The template does not work. Could serve another time, could serve without clipping, could serve for another contextual approach, but the model does not work. He ran out, especially because he was little supported. Primary care has a characteristic, in addition, something different from hospital care, and is that it is a care with much more will of equity and much more capillary, and it usually needs or needs -- and this is the most common -- a redistribution will in positive discrimination; let's say it needs a little more redistributive vocation. And, of course, it's very difficult to ask a conservative government for a redistributive vocation, but within it, at least it was expected that they didn't charge the system. This primary health system works for what it works, because we have some professionals that I sometimes think we don't deserve. Well, sometimes one says, something we'll deserve. But in general terms, primary professionals are supporting the system, despite managers! We've been talking about a new model for years. And we, of course, have been here for many years hearing about the new model, but one is already beginning to wonder: when the government talks about the new model, what is it? Because the new model involves making decisions, and decisions always mean some benefits, but also some costs, and for that we have to know where we're going. You can't go to all places, because you're verbalizing a lot of intentions, but in the end, the concretion is null. Today we have heard Mr. President of the Government talk a lot about the presence... but, data, none. And I want to remind you, Counselor, that you said early this year here that at the end of last year it closed with 40% of presence, and during this year, very recently and very special way, you, the management team -- that I'm going to assume that they have a joint position, and that's natural -- they say that 40% is not, that they haven't given, that the average is probably 40 percent, but that often gets less. You assume now that it's not true what they said in January. I know they don't have much to do, but it's really important that we know where the new model is going. Look, we've been thinking about her face-to-face. Where does the new model have to go? That's our question. Because if presence is demanded by the user or demanded by the professional, it's different things. What's your model? Up until now he had decided or had requested the user. Will the new model defend it as a clinical decision of the professional? We can talk about that. We can wake that up if you want. They're mostly, they have most legislation, they don't need our agreement and they can rule alone, of course. But if we want to transcend these dynamics, because there may be others at another time, it's because the system also deserves it, we can wake that up. We'll have some conditions. Mainly, if it's going to be a clinical decision -- that might be good -- they have to have a chance to do it, that professionals today have no chance to do it. And if not, explain to me this headline: "This year you will be able to request face-to-face consultation without limitations" by Mrs López-Pardo, who is now directing the general direction, and who basically takes care of the new model, of the supposed new primary care model. When he says this year can be asked for without limitation, he means that this year is indeed there; that last year there was and for now there are. Of whom? If they're user limitations, that means we're right when we say users are very limited in order. And if limitations are from professionals, that means what we say, that professionals don't have freedom to decide who's going to be present now, who don't have it, because they have limited quotas. So, actually, they're giving us the reason. You must overcome some limitations that you say do not exist. What's the model? Are we going to the clinical decision or are we going to the user's decision? And how? For setting a very paradoxical example, today, to ask for face-to-face -- and say so to Mrs. López-Pardo; something like that says -- you have to go to the health center. I mean, a person who's ill, if you want presence care, you have to go to the health center; just what we're not supposed to want to happen in a situation where we don't want agglomerations in health centers. Imagine a person infected with curfew who has serious symptoms, with a lot of damage, and has to go to the health center to seek face-to-face attention. It doesn't make any sense, it's not well organized, and we've been in this situation for a few months. But other similar things happened before. The new model: concentrate decisions or decentralize? We defend decentralization. You have so far been concentrating the model, especially the hospital, on the reform of the Health Act, but also the primary one. Why? Because they're not potentiating... we're defending some initiatives like positively discriminating the hard-covered squares, which you don't defend. More professional categories or not? We do defend that. What about you? Because that would involve meeting the needs of more workers and social workers, including social educators, around primary care. But, of course, many more physiotherapy professionals. And the link between mental health and primary care, yes or no? You voted no. We reached an agreement here, in this Parliament, in the first quarter, at the beginning of spring, on mental health, but you left that part out. We've reached an agreement on other parts, and it's worth highlighting, I think it's important, but that part doesn't make it clear. We do. Do you think mental health should be left out? We think it's necessary to bind her, and that's where she could go the new model. You, however, use the debate for excuses: that if an extraordinary MIR -- which has not yet explained how you can make an extraordinary MIR with the same resources that we have -- that you duplicate the training offer, but with the same resources and with the same tutors -- that you already complain now, with many MIRs in the same consultation; there will be consultations in which there will be so many MIRs that you will not be able to enter the user -- and, in addition, you have legislated to make it impossible. But it's something else to "save" the laws. Whether others are bad too, who is very good, or who blames the professionals. You said it, Counselor, and you know that there I can't validate it and that we are absolutely against it. We believe it was a mistake because professionals don't want 60,000 euros a year to cover a square. It's not true, you said that because of the Guard Health Center and made it a defense of the system. That contract does not exist, that offer never exists, and that offer is not real, and it also shows that it is not only money, but stability, care, appreciation, affection and respect, that even now professionals do not perceive it. So we'll have to go to that. We make proposals, like the new categories. They laughed at me in this Parliament when I defended that more administrations in primary care would defuse doctors. They laughed at me in the past legislation. I continue to argue that this position is reasonable, and that doctors and doctors do medical work, that nurses and nurses do nursing work, because they're doing cross-work, and that we have personal choice. You're talking about an emergency screening system. Let's not burden the same professionals with too much work. We put personal choice in health centers; at least we start with the big ones, so they have more work. Could be a chance. Nursing can do that job; we don't need doctors, that there's this apparent and real shortage of doctors. We can use them as nursing, and we release work, prevent the system from channeling itself in the form of embide against the optional professionals, who are hypersaturated. But your idea of the new model, in the end, are new excuses about the old problems, and if you're committed to doing this the damn account of the government's fault, we're never going to solve the problem, because, everything you say now, when the PP in Madrid ruled, they didn't ask for it, nothing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u96	So we're going to be able to understand what the new model you're proposing is. We have some proposals, but if we're really going to a new model, it's very important that we can discuss it. For now his new model is new excuses for the problems of all time, and so we don't solve anything and it goes the way it goes, it's not going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u97	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u98	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. In this first plenary session, the BNG is focusing very much on our interventions in the health situation, in particular on the state of public health, and not by chance, but because it is one of the most worrying problems facing the Greeks and the Greeks. With a lot of difference, it's one of the problems that concerns the Greeks and the Greeks the most. And the questions that we ask you and which are in the written interpellation, Mr. García Comesaña, are: what measures will you put in place in Galician Union to ensure that primary health care is normalized? What steps are you going to take to delete the waiting lists? What are you going to do so they can ask for face-to-face attention from all the people who need it? What will you do to stop mistreating professionals? In short, what we want to know, and that's why we're asking him here today, is: what is his roadmap for Galicia's primary care? He asks what we've been asking for a long time and which, of course, they haven't answered. We have to repeat again that if any lesson has left the welcome it is the need to have quality public services and to have good public health, and especially primary care. I also told him that, of course, at the BNG we thought that, after all the primary care before the pandemic and everything that happened in the pandemic, really, naively, we thought it would be useful for the People's Party to take note and correct its road map. Ingenuously we thought it would be worth it if, past the fat of the pandemic, here if we clearly said that we're not doing well here, that primary care really has to be resolute, it has to be well equipped, you have to have enough staff and we're going to work to make this happen. But the reality is that it's going right in the opposite direction. The reality is that the People's Party is taking advantage of, which has been taking advantage of the situation of the coward for 18 months to accelerate its goal of deterioration of primary care, because with a resolvative and well-equipped primary care, with quality public health, there is no increase in private health, and the goal of the People's Party is to increase private health, so they're doing what they're doing. Look, primary care must be based on contact and professional/patient relationship. Those are the premises that have to be shown in any manual or that any primary care expert says it has to be primary care. And contact, the sick/professional relationship, accessibility and immediateness have other premises, but these three are unquestionable: that accessibility, that professional/patient contact and immediateness; that anyone who needs to be cared for is the moment he needs that attention. And the next question, Counselor, is, what is left to the primary attention of these premises? What remains of Galicia's primary attention to these premises? I have to tell him he has absolutely nothing left. There's no instant, there's a few waiting lists that I'm a constant, and the point is that they're not going to be less, but they're going to be increasing. This summer was tremendous, it was chaotic, it was desperate for professionals and for the population. And I no longer say waiting lists for a part, for a recipe, for the pursuit of a pathology, for the attention to chronicity, but they are waiting lists to meet a health demand or to meet a person who is ill. Look, a few examples. At the Castro Rosalía Health Center in Vigo yesterday, a person called for a possible urine infection. She calls to see her family doctor so they can test her and prescribe an antibiotic, because obviously, at the pharmacy, they won't give her an antibiotic without this consultation. Do you know when he was given an appointment? On October 1st. And the answer is, you go to the E.R. And he says, "But how am I going to go to the E.R. for such a matter; is that I can't go to the emergency services! Well, they don't give you a choice. We can go on. Cambeds, request for an appointment, on the 14th, give it to you on September 28-29 or October 1st. The sex health center -- that center of what you said here, in parliamentary headquarters, that was not going to make cuts, that was not going to happen with the retirement of a professional, and it's going to happen! --, ask for an appointment on September 9. When do they give it to her? By September 29th. Ponteares, an appointment requested in mid-July, were attended by her in early September. Carball, a week... There's absolutely no health center in Galicia where a Welshman can ask for an appointment and give it to him in time and form. Not one! [[Applause]] No, not one, Counselor! [[Applause]] Because in time and form it's not four or five days, as you're trying to move. [[Applause]] They say four or five days doesn't take long. Yes, four or five days is a delay for a person who needs to be cared for; it's a delay. The norm in many health centers is a delay of weeks to get a 20-day appointment, in many cases to get a phone call, which will then be seen whether it is derived from a presence care or not. That's why the question is, when are you going to guarantee that attention? When are you going to ensure that even if it's telephone attention, it's done in time and form and people don't have to be hours and hours trying that phone connection? That's why it takes more professional and more lines, as we've already sued you here and how you've voted conveniently against the People's Party. Look, another of the basic issues in primary care is accessibility. There is no accessibility. The difficulties of the population to contact are more than obvious. And, of course, at the BNG we believe that there is absolutely no excuse for continued difficulty in accessing health centres, so that no presence is allowed. You can make protocols to go to the hostel, but it turns out that protocols to ensure access to primary health care services cannot be implemented. So the next question is, how long will they stop people who need it from asking for presence attention? Because, Counselor, do you really think the Greeks and the Greeks aren't able to know when they need to be seen by a professional? You think when you're feeling bad, don't you think I can tell if you need to see a professional? Is it going to reach the level of infantilization that someone has to decide whether or not they're feeling bad or whether, according to what they have, whether they are likely to be seen by a professional or not? Do you think that the Greeks and the Greeks aren't old enough to know when we're bad and to ask to see a professional? Do you think we're not able to know when we need a professional? [[Applause]] With the action they're doing, they're saying we're not able to know. [[Applause]] And from the third pillar of primary care, which is the professional/patient relationship, there's nothing left. Primary health care cannot be done the distance, Counselor, there must be that relationship; one must be able to look at the eyes, one must be able to palpate, one must be able to see, one must be able to see the color of the skin; and for that there is need for presence. Do you think a person, of any age, but above all an older person, is able to count on the phone how he really is? Yeah, to have a solvency level where what's on the other side of the phone really knows what's going on with it? What you're doing right now is converting what's a basic rule of primary care, which is face-to-faceness, except that; and that, of course, can't be. They have reduced primary care to dispatch patients with an automatic responseer, distancement and depersonalization. You, Counsellor, have the duty and responsibility to ensure that the Greeks and the Greeks have the best health care, to guarantee them quality health care; you have the obligation to protect those and professionals and that they can develop their professional activity in dignified conditions. You're not guaranteeing one thing or another, you're not protecting the population, you're not protecting the people and the professionals, and the health policy you're applying is disregarding the Greeks and the Greeks. There is no continuity in attendance, there are professionals who are one day here and another there, and with that the patients don't know how to land, they have to tell what happens one day and another to different people. Patients feel unattended, they feel like things don't work out. And with their health policy they're leaving behind the most vulnerable, Counsellor, those who have less resources, those who have less technological competences, the people who need follow-up. They're leaving especially behind all those people. They're making it impossible to detect problems in time. There have been patients who have been less than a year without an optional reference, and so many who have been more than a year without seeing their reference professional's face. That's the reality. And I ask him, how many pathologies have evolved to fatal diagnoses if they could have avoided? How many that have evolved to chronicity could have avoided? Of the 300 suicides that occurred in Galicia in 2020, how many could have been avoided if there had been enough professionals to have that contact and to skip their alarms? These are questions I'd like you to answer here, Mr. García Comesaña. And with the health policy being carried out, it's limited to professionals; professionals who are breaking up. Many professionals are breaking up because of stress, anxiety, anxiety, knowing they can't do their job in condition, because they have to spend more hours than when their work day ends by reviewing stories because they know they couldn't spend the time they needed; because they're afraid that diagnoses aren't the right ones. That's the situation in which you professionals have every day. And what do the professionals say, Mr. Comesaña? I'm going to read you a series of questions very quickly. A health-care center professional in Vigo says, "I write to make you aware of the situation we are going through in the health-care center. It's a real crazy thing. All the workers in the center are on the edge of the collapse. Today, there is an enormous workload for all professionals: a genuine avalanche of emergency patients, telephone calls, key 365 requests, vaccination certificates, deployment of the CR-M100 system... with which, instead of helping the administrative staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u100	...which makes the patients present at the health center in person, since there are no means or increase of staff in proportion to work. There are low-labour partners for stress, the PXS, doctors... finally, the final consequence of all the previous story is that we are paying with our health to very poor Sergas human resources policy." That's what a person from an administrative staff at a health center says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u102	...but they could sign hundreds of those -- finished, Mr. President --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u103	No, no, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u104	The College of Doctors of Pontevedra criminally denounces the leaders of the health area of Pontevedra...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u106	...primary care doctors in the Coruña lead to the collapse of the Emergency Service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. You can still read that later, on the other turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u108	Ourense doctors say it's not possible to recover normality because Junta doesn't have the means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u109	Please look at the time, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u111	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I respond to these inquiries shortly after the President of the Board's questions have been completed, where primary care issues have also been addressed, one of the main areas in which the Health Council has focused its efforts. It's a very much-turned subject of opposition, no doubt, but where this government always answers with information and facts. So last week -- without going any further -- in Commission 5th, the Director General of Health Planning and Reform answered their group questions on this same issue in the first committee that was held after their appearance, their own request, in the month of July, to advance the reforms planned for primary care by this government. We had little margin in this case to be able to implement the issues you announced on that date in July. And I myself appeared in this House in August to address, in addition to the situation of the pandemic, the situation of primary care. I mean, there were four shows in just a month. I insist, little margin has given us to continue with the measures we are implementing, just a month or so; a month besides, unfortunately, we had a wave that also affected -- and so I said at that appearance in August -- especially in the field of primary care, but that didn't make the Health Council stop working in that month of August -- I repeat -- to move forward in the planned and promised reforms. So they're being implemented, as announced, while working on new issues like the ones you announced just an hour ago, the president of the board. Mr. Torrado, you said we won the media war -- I heard it last week -- Well, I'm sorry to disagree, since we, in fact, don't go into any war. We are not in any war, but we are limited to administering the health care that all Greeks and Greeks want, and in this case the nearest health care, the primary care. On the contrary, you seem to want to give that war, especially when they know -- because we've moved it to them on different occasions -- that these measures are being addressed, that we're moving forward in the implementation of many of them, and that some of them also start to bear fruit. You raised issues that, welcome, because, as you know, we're working on them, even though then I'll try to stop a little more of them. Well, more than a fictitious war, there's another possibility: it looks like the hikers who still have their boss in rows and you did this month of August by some health center pretend to be a smokescreen with which to cover up other internal aspects of your party. Now, in 2021, you are asking the Board to take action in the field of primary care, but I remind you that this government started in 2018 the work to count on a plan to address primary reform as soon as possible. The 2019-2021 Primary Care Plan has made it necessary because Galicia has changed the characteristics of its population. Our community is growing older, so it increases the chronicity of patients, and we also have to deal with depopulation in certain areas. That plan has been developed with the collaboration of more than 120 professionals -- of course, we are delighted to receive it from you, Mr. Torrado, to collaborate on that plan or whatever at the moment, I would miss more! --. And short-term, medium-term and long-term measures were determined; short-term measures were set at 100 %, and medium-term measures at more than 90 %. Well, in any case, saying that we don't have a plan we're working on, because I think it's pretty simple and I think it would be demagogic. How demagogic it is to say that the solution is to hire more personal. You know, Mr. Torrado and Mrs. Prado, that there are no family doctors to hire, and we can give you the rounds we want -- then we'll talk about it, too -- but there are no doctors to hire. In addition to this 2019-2021 Primary Care Plan, a group of experts has been set up to develop a document collecting the keys to reforming primary care for the future. Again, Mr Torrado, welcome to the consensus, to the debate, to know what primary attention we want; we are totally open. It's in that roadbook; it's a roadbook that, by the way, claims the schools of doctors in Pontevedra, those in Ourense and those in the Coruña. That's the document we have to guide. I repeat, I give you a copy whenever you want, and you can see where we want to go in primary care. That document, called Primary vertebrate Care, and Plan 2019-2021 set the work and strategy to be able to implement the precise measures. It is a plan that progresses despite the months of confinement, which has prevented the initially planned steps. During this year, important steps have been taken to recover the activity of the Technical Council for Primary Care, of which we have repeatedly noted. This council was created within the framework of this primary care plan, and it welcomes professionals, trade unions, patient associations... all of them directly linked to this level of care. Just in the previous interpellation, I replied, with regard to primary care, that we were moving forward and that we were starting to put in motion what the different committees already know. Those commissions have finished and all their work and conclusions have been dealt with in the Council and will also serve for immediate action. That's where we're talking about other specialties. I'm surprised you're now telling us that there are nurses, that there are psychologists, that there are physiotherapists, because of course they're at the Primary Care Technical Council and they've developed their service portfolio, and we're implementing that service portfolio. In that interview, we also advanced our intention to start working on local health plans, a basic point in that vertebrate document. It seems to you that health plans look like an exercise of artificial fires; to us it's an important issue. We're developing it in nine health centers, for example, we're going to incorporate another four, and we believe, in addition, that's a tool for advancing the autonomy of the centers, as well as improving the distribution of workloads. We totally agree that we're overloading medical professionals too much, that we've known for a long time, and we have to... No, but we've been saying it for three years, Mr. Torrado... well, read the document. I'm going to pass the copy because, of course, I haven't read it. We're working on that line, as I said. Local health plans have to develop this and they also have to address key aspects of community care in managing, especially, prevention and chronicity. We also need to reform and give more tools and skills to health center managers so they can, precisely, develop all those aspects that the local Health Plan has to collect, and also -- I insist -- attention to chronicity. Managing all this well is fundamental to ordering demand, which is the key part of local health plans. On the other hand, the implementation of the medical quality schedules, another historical demand of the health group, particularly those of the doctors, is already practically completed, but not only that of the doctors. Well, as we also reported a few days ago, these quality schedules are practically implemented in most health centers. It's a reorganization of activity according to the characteristics of each center and it will allow for better management of optional times. Similarly, these quality schedules allow for balance between face-to-face and phone-to-face care, generally counting a 60 % allocation, but obviously not to the detriment of those centres, which, for example, reach 90 % of presence. I'm going to put myself here slightly, though not much. It's not understood that you blame the Galician Board and the Health Counsellor that there is no presence, when there are doctors who have 100 percent of their presence, Mrs. Prado. Lots of centers. Yes... Don't say no, because yes. [[Applause]] I will also give the President of Parliament the list of doctors who are over 90%. So, don't you listen to Junta? And some doctors have a percentage of presence that's around 5%. It's the doctor's decision right now. Since we're in the pandemic, it's the doctor who decides. You asked where we want to go. Well, look, when you started the non-presental attention -- of course, very much discussed and debated by all of you, by some more than by others -- it was put as a tool. You don't have to go to the doctor to give a prescription, you don't have to go to the health center. I don't know what the world lives on. You don't have to go to the health center to renew a recipe, but for other things, of course you do. The non-presenceal attention was launched in Galicia on a pioneer basis in 2013 and reached 15% of the consultations. We think it's a reasonable fact that you can even overcome, and it depends not on more, as Mrs. Prado said, but depends primarily on the knowledge of the doctor and the patient. In fact, when there were transfers, there was a significant decline in non-presental care, which was recovered as soon as the doctor knew the coupon. It's a tool that's there and will continue to be, as much as you care about. I've seen that you've been there at Galeras asking for 100 percent of presence. Well, I don't think it's wrong, it's not going to be 100 percent presence, I think it's never again, like it wasn't before the pandemic. We'll have to strike a balance. We propose that this balance, in a transitional way, is 60% of face-to-faceness and 40%, as a reference, and we work on it. And -- I repeat -- these quality schedules are going in that sense: in ordering presence and non-presenceal attention. And, of course, he'll stay. If you ask me who will decide, Mr. Torrado, because I think the ideal would have to be some consensus between patients and professionals; not just doctors, all of them. And where's the consensus? It depends on the kind of pathology, the urgency... of many aspects that are valued every day. It's very good for the patient, of course, and it's very good for the professional. We must achieve that balance, and we work on that line. Also, as I said, quality schedules want to extend them to other categories, for example, to nursing. We're working with the Technical Council to implement these quality schedules in the field of nursing in the coming months. And I also want to say that in these quality agendas you look at the times for both optional and nurses, the specific times for management, for example, or for MIR or EIR tutors, so that these agendas pick up, on a pioneer basis also in Spain, all that activity. We have to keep working and we'll address the rest of the agenda. Also at the Technical Council, we will address quality agendas for dentists, hygienists, matrons, with the same objective: reorganizing activity, reorganizing times and adapting agenda items to the needs of professionals and populations. We also advance in that explanation in an important respect: in the prescription of nursing, of which you don't speak, but for us it's an important issue. Nursing prescription is now regulated by the corresponding legislation and, of course, we must defend and defend the incorporation of community-based nurses. Thirty nurses have already joined the OPE, in the first OPE, in the Spanish State, which recognizes this category. And we will continue to insist on this category. In order to reorganize the activity of the centers, we will also publish immediately an instruction directed to all health care agencies to increase the quality of care for all those patients who attend the centers for the control of oral anticoagulant treatment, the Sintrom. This follow-up that is now taking place on occasion in the rooms will begin to take place in consultations, for better quality and better flexibility of patients and not to limit the delivery schedule, as so far. Even so, we will also extend to all health areas the model that we are already applying successfully in the areas of Ourense and Santiago, in which the nursing essentially performs control of this type of patients. So, we'll release the schedules of the optionals, taking away the time for this control. We are also moving, through a commission of work, to improve flexibility in primary care services and in the classification of demand, with the implementation of the comprehensive system of team demand management, known as Xide. You were talking, Mr. Torrado, about the possibility of incorporating triage equipment. Look, in 2018, Vigo's primary health centers had a nursing choice. I have to tell you that's already a little obsolete. What do you have to do now... There is no need to introduce the "time" variable in the emergency room. Yes, of course, I'll tell you with knowledge. In 2018 it was already done in all primary health care centers, beginning with the Doublada and ending with the Sardoma. I can give you more details when you want, but don't tell me what it isn't. Well, that was a good solution, but we have to move forward, and we believe that demand management has to do with the administrative staff. I agree with you that administrative staff have a fundamental role in health care centers, they always have, and they can keep on having it, and in that line we have to work. This measure would be one of the first to be implemented in the national territory in this sense, and we believe it is a tool of consensus. Right now they're being reviewed -- during the month of August, and this month of September too -- all the reasons for consultation to establish this automatically and consistently -- in the working group, of course, there's PSX, but there's also nurses and doctors from different scientific associations -- to have that, as I say, automated and incorporated. He said that with the implementation of local health plans, with quality schedules, with other measures directed at redistribution of tasks and, of course, with this put into operation in the coming weeks of this demand management system, we believe that we can work on the alleviation of agendas without limiting the quality of attention, thus fulfilling the commitments we have acquired, which, as you well know, have been materializing one by one. On the other hand, the beginning of the pandemic also subjected changes in health centers, of course, in the circuits we all know, which we also have to start thinking about, little by little, changing -- that I agree with you, Mrs Prado -- and also in the implementation, as we said, or in the consolidation of the non-presental consultation that -- I insist -- in Galicia we had already since 2013. I announced to the president that there is a moment that we are ready to go through that presence consultations can be obtained, in addition to the counter -- that I have to insist that there never ceases to be presence consultations, and I am sending these doctors that 98% of the activity is present-- from tomorrow morning, through the website quote and the IVR; a tool that we have to say that he used until now only 30% of the population, but, indeed, it was a demand that we had on the table with some professionals and it is going, as I say, to say, to greet from tomorrow. So we believe that this is an important step we must take, and we must continue to work. We will continue to work, and so we have the People's Group thinking about this more structural initiative of having more primary care doctors. It's fundamental. I'm going to say something that, as you say, often repeats it doesn't really become. Look, you say the family doctors are leaving Galicia. We have conducted a study of the last ten years of family doctors trained in Galicia, of which they ended between 2010 and 2021. Well, 90 percent of the doctors who lived in Galicia when they started the MIR -- 90 percent!-- work in Sergas; 90 percent, Mr. Torrado! --I'm also going to give the report to the president, with names and names, I hope you don't use it-- 90 %! [[Applause]] Of this 90%, of those doctors who work with us, of those who have been trained in the last ten years, 64% owns, owns property, 17.79%, i.e. 18%, is interim, and 10.5% is substitute, has a long-term place for a low-life, for a service commission, for a reservation... that's the reality of doctors who are trained in Galicia. Would we like it to be more? Of course we'd like them to be more. But stop saying the doctors are gone. Don't run away. Look, when we meet the health advisors, everyone asks to see that they have those who run away, because it happens to us everywhere the same thing. What we have to do is train more doctors. And what do we ask? That they let us train more doctors. And how?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u114	How do we order it? In a very simple way. First, betting. We'll put funding on it. We also have to say -- because someone like you doesn't know -- that the financing of the training of the family doctors corresponds to the autonomous communities; we formed them, we paid their wages. And well paid and I hope we can pay more. What we need is that the National Specialty Commission, regulated by the Ministry, sets up and revises, after thirty years, the conditions for being a tutor or teaching unit. I'm going to set an example that everyone will understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u116	A 62-year-old doctor can't be a tutor because in the next four years he can't guarantee he can form family residents. Is this a logical system today? We don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u117	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u118	Thank you, President. Counselor, seeing some of the things you've been dazzling about, I think it's necessary to explain something, go to two fundamental issues: to the presence and to the model as such. First of all, I'm going to explain some things that he says. If that MIR recruitment, at your level, is so, the Board is failing to comply with the lawfulness of State procurement, because it would fail to comply with the data. Yes. They hire in a stable way all that volume of MIR that they say, and they're also rewinding and hiring, exhausting the replenishment rate with other squares as they announce, if what they announce is true, they're skipping legality. I hope you don't, because I have a great regard for your legality -- not of all the members of your government, but of you, yes-- About the prescription of nurses. It's very good that you assume. Do you know what's going on? That two and a half years ago it could be done and we went to Spain's penultimate community to enable it, after we asked him here many times and voted against it. He assumes from local health plans. He knows what I am. Tell me. Maybe you don't know what I am. I'm not going to be such a loser. You know what the area health councils are, now district health councils. Do you know how many times they've met in Galicia since there's this legal possibility? You know that, don't you? I have two hands, so I have one left, counting all the districts, eh! And now you tell me that I don't understand myself, and I don't seem to celebrate that they're going to start making local health plans. Well, start with the area health councils. Of course, it's important not to be so offensive at things, because maybe they come back, you know this is like a buffalo. About the choice. I'm glad I explained it! It's not about giving the same professionals more work. From our point of view -- which can be questionable, of course -- it's that this function is so relevant to health centers, especially for adults, it must have a specific professional for that, because that ability to work in a large health center is important. I know you know Vigo's health centers, because you've been in front of that health area; I also know that you weren't able to replace the head of service, because no one wants to pay attention to primary care in your area of influence, and well, you can assume of that, but you can also assume that you weren't able to have heads of service, in any case. [[Applause]] About facelessness and modeling, it costs them a lot to take on, but, in fact, they're giving us the reason today. There were limitations and now they want to overcome them. I celebrate that you seem to have tried to announce here that tomorrow will change the model in order to be able to demand the presence already otherwise. It's okay. We think it's late, but it's okay. That's a good decision, which we applaud, with that saving we think is late, but we applaud her. If so, let's hope, therefore, that we solve the serious problem that was that, having professionals the ability to decide, as you say, whether they were present or not, they had limitations, because there were closed schedules, because they had no more capacity in many cases than to put eight or ten face-to-face appointments a day. They couldn't, they didn't have that capacity. And if not, what we can do -- and I've already thought about it here -- is to draw, between Galician health centers, ten, we're going to visit them and we're all going to ask professionals. They had that limitation. If it's even possible to understand that they could have had it. At one point it was very reasonable. We think they're getting late to break that barrier. At first, it was normal, we understand, but now we think they're late. You're going to break that barrier now, we're just now discussing whether they did it late and they should have done it before, but the thing is that you came to the position that we defended. Let's celebrate! About the model. Look, you tell me they're working on the model of that document. Let me look at two examples of what parliamentary debate means to us and one about what we understand we can build. I'm starting with the latter. That model that stands for in that document For primary vertebrate care, we've said for a long time that we feel good. Obviously, it has nuances that we don't share, but it seems to us to be a good guide. We said that a long time ago. It is a good guide, in which people who today, like Mrs. López Pardo, have participated, are in the direction of the Council and we believe that it basically supports the general model: good about the analysis of how the system is and well directed about where we have to go. Let us see if it seems so good that we have proposed that this Parliament should adopt an agreement to be able to agree on some of the measures that we consider to be more important and to open our hands so that we can include the most important ones, which were from the agreement of all and not discussed later. Do you know you voted for the People's Party? On the contrary. And you come to me with an agreement that we proposed to you and what you were against. If, in the end, it'll be that we're in favor of what we're going to do and you're against it! Counsellor, this is a little bit of... and I was saying that with regard to the parliamentary debate, because what is shown is that you try and escape this Parliament, and we defend that there are many things that we are proposing that you are doing and in which we can reach agreements. I insist, they have an arithmetic majority that doesn't make them need to wake up with us, of course. It's legitimate; we think we have to do it, but it's legitimate not to do it. But they don't tell us that we don't know, that we don't know, or that we don't seem to understand the system. We do what we can, we believe in some things we do and certainly in others, not. [[Applause]] In this we told him that the work you've done on analysis is devastating to this country's health policy for the last ten years, Demoleptic, because I've read here extracts of that work and it's demolition. And you tell me I'm learning about the report now. For five years I've been talking about primary care here, three years ago this debate came here to this Parliament, brought by this parliamentary group, and you voted against it. If you really believe now that you have to bet on that model, as I told you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u119	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u120	...the first time you showed up in Parliament, welcome, but try to respect a little that the other's opinions sometimes find that they match more than it seems and you often also have a somewhat more closed position. Because I know what was said here about that report when I brought that debate, because the same advisor who refused to implement it was what he said it was much better to pay attention to technical committees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u122	...and we think that report is good. If that's the way, we agree. But, please, if it's gonna be the way, let's remember.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u123	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u124	Thank you, President. You said, Counselor, that we give you little space to put in motion the measures they have announced. Well, the truth is, listening to you and thinking about it, we're also rushing into the BNG. You've only been ruling for twelve years; then, when you ask him to take measures and solve the health problems, just the same as you do, we're rushing and we have to give them more time. [[Applause]] Here's what it's all about -- and I know you don't like me telling you, but I'm going to keep saying why it's like that -- it's about imposing the story. Then, if so, we'll see if this story matches something about reality. But what is there is to impose the account that they are doing everything possible to solve the problem, when not true, Mr. García Comesaña. We will continue to demand answers and continue to ask for their presence in this Parliament whenever necessary until the problem is solved and primary care ceases to be in the dramatic situation in which it is. At that time, we will stop asking for explanations and ask for action. You say, please, we understand once and for all that there are no doctors. And you've given a number of data on how many MIRs end up and they're in Sergas, but what you don't say is how many are in primary care, because, of those who finished this year, only 30 of 70 are left. That's what you don't mean, and you don't want to say it because you know why you're not in primary care, and that's because you're inescapable of those working conditions that you demand. That's the reality. And then you have a responsibility; you have a responsibility to change that situation so that they do want to stay in primary care. You say there are no doctors. Cómprollo, "Fill us dust as a pet." No clinical psychologists, Mr. García Comesaña? Aren't there social workers? No occupational therapists? No PSX? No lockers? That's all there is, isn't it? Why aren't all these personnel hired so necessary and so accurate in primary care that it would solve a very important part of the problem? Why don't they? Why don't they? [[Applause]] You also said that we don't want to talk here about the fact that you put in place the prescription of nursing. But how long have we been putting up here on the table that not only the prescription of nursing, but that of physiotherapy, that of midwives, that of pharmacy, that of all these professionals can perform their professional work without guardianships to have their own schedule without being secondary! And that would improve the quality of care and the unmanagement of family doctors' schedules. We brought it here in writing and voting, and systematically the People's Party votes that it does not. Not you, who wasn't a Member; you didn't vote against, but the rest, yes. Then, please, the story above reality. The account above reality, because these issues have been demanding them here for a long time. And I'm asking you to stop blaming professionals, because you have responsibility. Look, you have to ensure that the Greeks and the Greeks pay attention when they need it. If a professional decided not to go to work, wouldn't you do anything to urge him to go to work? I suppose so. So you have to do the same thing when you recognize that there are professionals who only have 5% presence, that some who have 0% and there are patients who in a year haven't seen their professional because they haven't given you any presence appointments. Before that, you have to act and make sure it doesn't go that way. You have to. [[Applause]] You have to! I'm glad that starting tomorrow, theoretically, you can ask for your presence attention, but I also tell you that we will be careful to see that today's announcement of the President of the Board and of you is being made of that decision that you are present. To see how many hollows and how many people are able to get that presence appointment. We shall be careful; we shall be blessed, and we shall be attentive. And look, if the situation was as well as you say, there would be no mobilizations throughout the country: The Guard, The Rosal, Salvaterra, Ponteareas, Tomineño, Oia, Coia, Sexo, Baltar, Cangas, Viveiro... I could still tell you, because, besides, this is because people are not cared for, and while it is not attended, private health is fattening and professionals, as much as you say, are escaping from public health for the private and for the outside. I have to admit that you came to the Council's responsibility at a very difficult time. I'll recognize him, but, said that, if I had to put a note on him, I'd tell him that you're not progressing properly. You are not progressing properly, and your performance is not corresponding to the severity of primary care. It is urgent to implement measures so that primary care is really that vertebrate axis, so that it is the center of attention where 80 percent or 90 percent of the population's health processes are solved. That's what it takes to take socks. Some of them aren't in the German field of competence, but a lot of them are. Changing recruitment policy is in your hand, making primary care desirable is in your hand, hiring new professionals and new categories is in your hand, stopping mistreating professionals with that recruitment policy is in your hand and listening to what thousands of Galicians and Galicians have told you in the street and at the doors of health centres every day is in your hand. They're telling you that primary care is collapsed and that it's not responding to the health care needs they need. Therefore, you can do many things you're not doing, Mr. García Comesaña. And I hope that once and for all it will put in place a real primary care plan that will turn it into that real vertebrate axis that will respond to the health problems of the Greek population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u126	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, I'm glad of the tone of some of the parts of the interventions, in order to support that model that we all have. Welcome, I insist, Mr. Torrado, to that support of the vertebrate plan. That's our roadmap; the vertebrate document has been the script we have for three years. It is true that for some more than a year we could not develop what was planned, as we have already said several times here, your request and our request, because we have seen here as many times as you ask us to do, but we have also seen every time we believe that we have to come to tell you something, and at all times we move that we are recovering everything that contained that vertebrate document -- that, of course, it may have nuances-- but our commitment is to continue to inform all of you, all Members, and in particular the health spokespersons, of how it develops. And when I said they didn't give us time, Mrs. Prado, I meant that, coming to the director general in July, I think that in a month and a half, with a wave above and in August, it's hard to have more results. But still, I'm counting here, at parliamentary headquarters, that quality agendas -- a historical demand for primary care doctors -- are practically implanted in all primary care coupons in Galicia, although there may be some isolated case, that we're going to make that effort in the rest of the categories as well, and that we think it's an important step. We're working on the service portfolio with all the professions you just commented on here. Of course we're in favour of incorporating these new professions, I'd miss it more!, and we're working on that fit. For us this demand management system is very important. I told you, Mr. Torrado, that the issue of choice -- which I know well, as you said well -- has its meaning, but it is not the solution, as it has also been shown in the case of the health area, as I said before. In that sense, the demand management document we believe that yes, indeed, is an important step, and we are working hard on it, as I told you, with a group that worked in August to further define those criteria. If everything goes well, over the next few weeks, it'll be approved at some health center and, if it works well, it's going straight ahead, and also all the averages I've been commenting on. I insist, in the categories, of course yes, and I insist on the capacity of the local health plan, which, well, Mr. Torrado, I understand that you want to return the ball to the local commissions, but we talk about totally different things, and I also accept the point that the area councils do not meet. If we are able to reactivate them, through local health plans -- which if it is a matter that depends on us, not on the municipalities -- there will be no problem. But the fundamental thing is that local health plans are this exercise where all healthcare professionals, led by the head of service and coordinator, are able to adapt the characteristics of care that this health center gives to the characteristics of that center. It's not the same at the Larouco Health Center, with 300 health cards, whether a coupon in Oia or a coupon in the Guard. We fully agree, that must be considered. You were talking about mental health. I think we're making a clear and manifest effort for mental health. What we don't think is appropriate -- and there we can disagree -- is that mental health units don't depend on the psychiatry service. We believe that the model we have in Galicia of mental health units, distributed in health centers, depending on the psychiatrist, is correct. And so right we think it's that in these months we've incorporated three new mental health units in Galicia. There are 15 more professionals in the last few months, two psychiatrists for each mental health unit, one social worker, one clinical psychologist for each of these units -- who are already working, not in months, but already working, in some cases, months -- in that very close relationship with primary care, with that health center, but with the primary care service. I'm talking about Oleiros, I'm talking about Orders, I'm talking about Tui, in this case, where that mental health bet integrated with primary care is fundamental... and in that we're totally in agreement, and we're also collecting it from the Greek Mental Health Plan, which, as you know, we're developing. On the subject of wages, I never wanted to underestimate that a person hadn't taken a contract of 62,000 euros. What I was saying is that when someone tells me that we offer sad economic conditions, third-worldists and all these kinds of adjectives, and that what we're offering is a contract of three years for 62,000 euros a year, you understand that you can't keep quiet. Well, all of the family doctors, that 90% of the family doctors we hired in Galicia, which have most of them a stable place -- owners, interim or substitutes -- charge even more than that on average. I mean, we're not dealing economically or from the contractual point of view, the MIRs that end. You're right, Mrs. Prado, the MIRs this year, most of them haven't been to primary care -- and we say -- so we also insist that we develop the emergency specialty so that it doesn't compete with primary care. That's what we said on an active and passive basis, and we told the Ministry. Finally, after much insisting, at the end of this month, there's going to be a specific meeting throughout the state to talk about primary care, and there we're going to take it, in fact, to our proposal to make an extraordinary MIR. I used to say, how are we going to do it? So by reviewing with the tutors we have in Galicia, but also with the rest of the state -- because even though some people weigh, we don't want the Greek MIR, we want the Spanish primary care MIR, we want it to be globally consensused -- we believe that we have to go, in this case, to Madrid to deal with the conditions among all, the conditions of the teaching units. We can't have an MIR training system 30 years ago. The system has evolved, health has evolved and the information has evolved. We believe that we have to review all the criteria, and of course we aspire to have -- if possible -- double the square -- of the 142 we have now, double the square. But, of course, they will have to be different from what we have now. With the criteria for now, we cannot move forward in more teaching units, because the situation, the requirements that the IRM training system currently has do not allow. But, well, I insist that we continue on that line and, of course, continue on with all the incorporation of these new professions. We believe -- and we told you a little while ago -- in the role of primary nursing; of community nursing, of course, but, in particular, of all the nursing, which is what we're going to take in primary care. We bet on that prescription. You say we've been the penultimate, but you don't say that the only protocol that's in force right now is that of the wounds. So here we all have to amend. And, of course, we think it's an important bet that the nurse can develop all her abilities in a balance frame, respecting the rest of the categories, and then, of course, we're going to keep working. I'm glad the 90 percent data is clear today. I'll give you all the documentation you need and we can confirm and stop saying that people are leaving Galicia for this concept. He'll go for others, but for this one, no. And, of course, what he wants to go is we can't tie him up. And I also want to insist on some data that, on the basis of repetition, of course we know, Mrs. Prado. Of course, there are health centers that have serious problems. I said here, at my last appearance, we had an important problem with the lack of human resources. We don't have substitutes. The cases you mostly comment on me are because they're impossible to replace, because it's true that we don't have substitutes. Here goes on -- that I always say -- my appreciation for the work that the rest of the doctors do at the health centers, that when one of them is missing, the rest of them take a hand, as they've been doing years and years, before the Bipartite, after the Bipartite and every year. When a doctor takes vacations, the others help him, he'd lack more!, as I think we all do. It is true that this summer coincided with an important impulse of this wave in primary care. We tried to react the way we could to lower that pressure, but it's true this year was a year harder, because we had fewer substitutes than other years. But, well, still, last summer -- that I insist on that thanks to the professionals and also managers, who were able to cover all those things -- I want to highlight here an important question: not a single point of continuous attention from the Galician Health Service -- more than 100-- was left without a single day, not a single shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u128	And, said this, I'm going to give the data right now, on September 5, 66% of primary care appointments, Mrs Prado, go out for two days or less, 66%. Out of every three dates, two leave in less than two days, and 83% leave in less than four days. And I'm going to give you a data: in Ourense province, 98% goes out in less than two days; a province that has 60% of its one-person centers, very difficult to cover. We have to keep working, of course. We want primary care professionals to have the best conditions. We'll keep fighting for more professionals, for new functions, for new categories, but we also think it's fair to recognize the work they're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u130	...they and primary care managers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u131	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next item on the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government, we start at 7.2. Question by Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the cautious paralysis of the wind park provided in the Pena mountain, between the towns of Outes and Black
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u132	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u133	Good morning. Counsellor, the Comarcas de Barbaza e Muros-Noia are a clear example of the abusive and extreme occupation of the territory by wind companies. If you go ahead with the planned projects, the 20 existing installations could be doubled in the short term, the current power would multiply by three and be added to the nearly 400 current air conditioners; 114 more mills, but with a size and capacity to generate electricity six times as much as those that have been operating in the area for years. In particular, in the city of Outes, the planned parks, with very little distance between themselves, would turn the entire area into a de facto wind megapark with a false fractionation in the same geographic area and with lines of evacuation and other infrastructures in common in many cases, which would facilitate the installation procedure; some of them exploiting the legal minimum limit and being located just 500 metres from the numerous villages, a minimum that was planned twenty years ago for airlines with a technology quite different from the current one, when the mills were around 50 or 60 meters high. In the month of June, the resolution of the declaration of environmental impact of the Outes wind farm project was published in the DOG: 21 megawatts of total power, 7 air carriers, plus its entire associated infrastructure, distributed along the Pena Mountain, a space where the report itself of the General Heritage Directorate recognizes the existence of archaeological heritage and that the Full Outes Town Hall agreed to apply in 2019 as a protected natural space of local interest, based precisely on its natural, historical and landscape importance. At the Pena mountain, at least seven mammoths and very close are already listed, at least 8 chests. To its heritage and cultural value, it must be added to the landscape, which makes it a tourist resource of the highest importance and which should have been protected for a long time. The planned performances will deprive society in general of the wealth of Penum and turn it into an industrial paradise for the benefit of a few. We're talking about a park, Mr. Counsellor, which was part of the 2010 competition, located in an area that was the subject of litigation and of what the Supreme Court itself condemned in 2018 the annulment of the competition and ordered that the tenders submitted for that area be resumed at the evaluation stage. We'd like you to clarify if that sentence was met. For all those reasons that we have just explained, we asked you if you think it's worth paralyzing this park in the Pena Mountains and you're going to protect and value the natural, cultural and landscaped wealth of the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pérez, I would like to thank you for bringing the wind sector to this Parliament. And I thank him because we can surely share, all parliamentary groups and also the Galician Union, that our commitment to the environment is unshakeable, that our commitment to the territory, to the economic activity compatible with the development of renewable energies, the primary sector and industrial activity, is unbreakable and that, therefore, in this Parliament, the Greeks and the Greeks have to know that we are working, precisely, to ensure that environmental protection and at the same time to develop economically our country. I'm sorry that once again the Galego Nationalist Block remains as predictable as demagogic. If you were honest, you would have to explain to the families, to the autonomous people and to the Galician companies that their Greek fare, which they so promote, is incompatible, precisely, with their permanent boycott to Galician wind development. If they were honest, they should explain that if we paid attention to their nationalist vocation to isolate Galicia energetically, that would pay 30% more than they do now. And if they were honest, Your Honor, they should also explain that this lack of congruence conceals a single objective, which is simply using an economic sector to oppose the Council of Galicia, a goal that is not reasonable in the 21st century. I'll give you three data. First, last year you should know that no wind farm was approved in Galicia, none. If I were to ask, I'd tell you this year's forecast is that five parks, none of them in Barbados, and with a combined provision that doesn't reach the 70 megawatts. And if I were to ask you, in fact, I'd say that we're dealing with -- because that's our obligation -- but we're not authorizing parks that don't meet all the criteria and objectives that I previously transferred to you. With regard to the wind farm that you move me, you know perfectly well that this park is developing by the processing of an ordinary environmental impact declaration; that is, by fulfilling all guarantees and having all favorable reports, including the report of the Black Town Hall. Therefore, we will continue, Your Honor, by processing and not authorising, unless all environmental criteria are met, and we will also do so in the case of the wind park...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u137	...outs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u138	Thank you very much, Vice President. To reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, your commitment to the environment is so unbreakable that yesterday, when the Government of the State announced a timid and absolutely incomplete measure to try to lower the receipt of light, the People's Party went into the thrombo to criticize that these very timid measures were, nothing less than confiscation. That's your commitment to the environment, Counsellor. [[Applause]] But you, with a seemingly friendly tone, do not cease to disqualify the action of the opposition, for now, that BNG has in this House. And I'm telling him because, apart from telling us that we are predictable and demagogic, before, in my companion's inquiry, you said we were vehement. Indeed, for nothing is an insult, quite the contrary, because, look, we bet on this subject and on any one in the defense of Galicia, by vehemence and by passion, and we want to leave behind the passivity, inaction and, of course, the desire shown by the Greek Government, particularly with the wind theme. [[Applause]] Mr. Conde, yesterday it was clearly seen, to every holder, which is the intention of the large electricity companies: either he does as they say or, if not, they threaten the total blackout. They are able at this point -- which is raining and with the empathy that the Minister of the Environment claimed -- to threaten a government with total impunity. Well, it's not just what's going on in the Pena hill, the Barbanza district, the Nose Walls and all over the country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u141	It's over, Mr. President. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, you have the floor of Mr. Conde's second Vice-President and Economics, Business and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's interesting to refer to yesterday's Council of Ministers agreement, because I remind you -- many times the Galician Nationalist Block has forgotten -- that you have a government agreement with the Socialist Party and with Podemos. If this matter were really so relevant to you from a political point of view, today they would have to break that legislate agreement with the Socialist Party and with Podemos, and so we could talk more seriously about the different issues, and particularly about the issue of electricity tariff. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But let's go to the wind sector, because you're in the wind sector. You wear a banner permanently and leave this Chamber and go behind the placard simply to make opposition irresponsible, because you would have the responsibility as Members and as a political party, precisely, to tell people the truth and not deceive people by trying to frighten and cast false expectations. Not enough, Your Honor, to follow the propaganda of the Greek electric tariff. I've been waiting for seven years -- seven years, Your Honor! -- that the Nationalist Block of Galicia presents an economic memory that shows that, indeed, its proposal is a savings in the electricity tariff of the Greeks. We're waiting for that economic memory. Now they want a fee for areas within the territory of Galicia. I'm sure at this point, they're going to ask for an electric fee for each Welshman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u144	...but that certainly is part of his incoherence. Your Honor, we are going to continue our search for the unity of the Greek people. You're trying to break the cohabitation using the wind sector in Galicia, and we're not going to allow it, because we're going to continue moving and processing the different projects with all guarantees, defending the environment, defending the heritage and defending all culture and heritage wealth. And we will continue to defend the development of that wind sector. I'm sorry you didn't admit... you were talking to me about the ENIL statement requested by the Outes Town Hall. Your Honor, there is no file in the Council of Galicia to request that statement; none, none. I should be informed of that. In any case, since he talks to me about the different spaces, actually, I'll tell him that these spaces aren't included in the Greek network of protected spaces. I'm just asking you for a little more rigor and, above all, to tell people the truth. Processing a park doesn't mean your authorization, and we'll continue to defend the whole protected space of Barbados and continue to defend the development of the sector itself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u145	Thank you very much, Vice President. Cumulative debate on questions 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5. Agenda change. Accumulation of three questions for joint formulation Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Bloc on sanctions to the electricity companies that emptied the Greek encords Question by Marisol Díaz Mouteira and six other Members by G. P. Popular of Galicia on the notification by the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation to the Galician Union on the drastic drop in the flow level of the coroners Question by Mr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Mr. Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiation of a sanctioning file in relation to the drop of the level of the cenza and the doors below twenty percent
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u146	To put the question, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u147	Counsellor, Galicia lives, in the wild emptying of cheers that we are seeing these days, the dramatic example of a political model that robs us of the ability to decide on our own natural resources -- water, in this case -- and also overcomes the consequences of an energy model that is polishing and absolutely colonial and is designed by and for the electricians, with the invaluable help of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We see that we put the resources -- I insist, water, in this case -- that we have the environmental impact, the socio-economic impact, and that the benefits go out, and not just that, but that we're seeing today -- besides, that we're again beating a price record of electrical energy -- how these resources are used, despite the negative consequences of this emptying of frames, to speculate precisely at the price of energy. So today, cheers like The Conches or Portomarin are squeezing 30%, others, with more extreme cases like the Doors, in Vilarino de Conso, are already below 15%, and the emptying not only stops but goes further. And it goes further, among other things, not only because of the greed of the electricians, but also because of the futility of the central government, yes, but also because of the Greek Government, because that pim, pam pom between the People's Party and the Socialist Party to the electrical companies is entering by one ear and leaving by another. We insist from the BNG that there is a responsibility here that is, of course, three times: those electric companies; of course, the central government, because it acquires an important part of the competences; but also the Greek Government, also yours, Mrs Vázquez. And as this is the German Parliament, for I have already put the sale before the wound and I ask you, please don't do as the president of the board this morning, who adopts an escapist and cutre strategy, and who assumes some kind of explanation and responsibility. We asked him for explanations today, because you already knew from June 10 that this was going to happen. They didn't do anything at all, and not just that, but that, when the damage was already visible, the only thing you did and the only thing the Greek Government did was to be a month giving press rounds instead of being able to run the files already. What took you so long, Mrs. Vázquez? You have to explain that, in addition to explaining how it is now seen that the consequences of the legislative changes that you make in favor of IBEX 35 companies, what they do is they steal Galicia's ability to act. You have to explain it today, because the German Government lied, you lied, and Mr. Núñez Feijóo lied, and the consequences follow and the problem is rising instead of diminishing. And today, in addition to these explanations, you have an opportunity to rectify and say that they are willing to come to the truth, that they are willing to assume responsibilities and that they will support the proposed research commission that the Nationalist Block Galego will bring to the next plenary. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Secondly, to put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u149	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I would like to thank the Councillor at this plenary meeting for answering this question to the enormous concern -- that we are not allied with the People's Parliamentary Group -- caused by the situation of several Galician applauses for the drastic reduction in their water levels. In particular, I refer to -- and you all know it -- the emptying of the coronations of Belesar, in the province of Lugo, and Cenza, The Doors and Rooms in the province of Ourense, all of them of state competence and belonging to the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Demarcation; supplies and hydroelectric use that accused a normal and accused decrease of their water reserves. This exceptional situation has generated concern and social alertness, not only in local administrations -- we're talking about 18 mayors, 12 people and 6 socialists -- but also in the autonomous administration and, of course, also among the neighborhoods of the municipalities affected. We must highlight and remember that last year at this same date demarcation had a level of occupation greater than 70 %, however, today the concoctions of this shell are below half its capacity, with levels of unjustifiable occupation in a normal hydrological year; unjustified, repeat, unexpected and unusual for this time of year. This situation of the concordance contrasts with the situation of the concordances of the Galicia-Costa Hydrographic demarcation, responsibility and competence of the Galician Union; eleven concords with a good level of reservation, more than 60 %. Therefore, in Galicia, with divided powers, with state-dependent and other responsibilities of the Union, I wanted to refer, ladies and gentlemen, to which the law understands that it is the same for all. Their interpretation should be the same for all, as it was done until now, but with exceptionalness, as you said in a press round recently, which was this summer and the four cheers of what we are talking about. So, out of the context of the normality that came into existence until this year -- and you, advisor, I'm sure you can achieve this much better -- from the People's Parliamentary Group, what we appreciate is the irresponsibility of the Central Government and that will seriously harm our country by the risks of water depletion, by endangering the preservation of environmental values and biodiversity and by preventing or even interfering with extinction tasks in the event of forest fires. It's a lot of news in the media, but above all, it's a lot of anxiety, fear and discomfort expressed by mayors, mayors and neighbors. Counsellor, given the interest and concern of the situation and, above all, so that the Greeks and the Greeks, in particular the proximity of these concerned rallies, can you understand what is happening, would you be able to establish what the powers of the Council in this matter are? What was the performance of the Hydrographic Confederation? Was it right? Did you follow the legal procedure? Finally, has there been legal notification by the Hydrographic Confederation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Your time is up. Thirdly, to put the question, Mr Arangüena Fernández has the floor for the parliamentary group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of the statements and actions of two councillors and Mr Feijóo on the subject of emptying the choirs shows a level of falseness, irresponsibility and improbable scapability of a democratic government in a rule of law and rouses prevarication, if it does not directly interfere with it. [[Applause]] After blaming the central government -- to vary -- and that Mr. Feijóo said on 2 September that Junta had not been informed by the electrical companies, the next day two Iberdrola emails from June 10 and July 12 were published demonstrating that Mr. Feijóo once again lied to Galician citizenship, because Junta was perfectly informed of the emptying of the coroners, although it also does not need to be informed, because he has to act on his own initiative -- if you don't know it -- and he has hundreds of environmental agents forced by environmental inspection of the coronos -- thank you!-- Despite the fact that the Government of Greece took 70 days to initiate four sanctioning files for the ridiculous amount of EUR 25,000 each, and still today it has not taken the legally established preventive measures that you must determine by the River Fisheries Regulation, which obliges the Council of Galicia to tell the electricians what measures they have to take to prevent environmental damage. And Mr. Feijóo, around the press, said that "these are facts of enormous ecological transcendence that Galicia does not deserve." Literally, and adding that "it's nonsense, a manifest irresponsibility and a failure with respect to the Greek Government." And he said, "I haven't seen anything like this in the 12 years I've been president." In the face of such tremendous and categorical statements by Mr Feijóo, what he has to do is to act, because there is, not one, but three autonomous laws that oblige you to act if there are signs of environmental damage, as Mr Feijóo is saying: the continental fishing of Galicia, that of Galician natural heritage and that of Galician environmental protection, and a fishing regulation that says that the Union must authorize or not authorize the emptying of coronations. And Junta had all the information, because Iberdrola sent communication, because the Hydrographic Confederation told 112 -- which depends on Mr. Rueda -- because the Hydrographic Confederation communicates every week -- as you should know -- the level of each of its embalms to Galician Waters, and, to finish, because you have hundreds of environmental agents who, among their own competences, have the surveillance of river courses, including coronations, also those of the Hydrographic Confederation. But it seems that the first agent who stepped on a reservoir did so on August 20, twelve days before Mr. Feijóo lied to the citizenship saying they were not informed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the concern you are showing and your questions at this plenary session, because the emptying of the four embassies of the Mino-Sil Demarcation is a subject of particular concern to the German Government; it is an issue that has officially been moved to the Hydrographic Confederation and also to the Ministry of Ecological Transition. It was publicly done and we want to move it again to you. We show our concern at the severity of the facts and the repercussions that this action may have been completely irresponsible by the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, since this drastic drop in water level, apart from being a real coat of hair for the neighbors of these coronations -- a true coat of hair, therefore, for the Greeks and for the Greeks -- can bring together an important problem in the environment and also in biodiversity -- no, perhaps, now, but surely within a few months -- ; not to mention that it has already damaged fundamental work as it could be the extinction of fires at a given time. That is why, Mrs Presas, we fully agree on one thing: it is necessary to take action. And that's what the Galician board did through the competent councillor, which is the Environmental Council. It has done so strongly against the concessionaires of these hydroelectric reservoirs that have changed the reserve level of their waters in an abrupt manner. But also against the body responsible for this demarcation, which is the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, which has consented to the situation we are in today. And we should do it, in addition, because we are -- as you well say -- in the face of an unjustified and irresponsible emptying that endangers wildlife and flora, as well as other uses -- like fishing or even tourism -- and brings with it the loss of oxygen and the proliferation and the increase of bacteria. In fact, this vacuum has placed the water reserves of the cours by less than 15% in some of them, which means the least historical in the last twenty years -- because it seems that this happened in the day-to-day -- when the precipitation recorded was even higher this summer than in other summers. Faced with this, the concordances of the Galicia-Costa demarcation, the competence of the Galician Union, remain at normal levels or even above these normal levels. Imagine, that's the difference: the competence of the Galician Union and the competence of the Central Government. That's why Junta has already taken action. He opened the sanctioning files both to companies and to the Confederation, records that cover the maximum level of sanctions of the River Fisheries Act -- and he did so due to the lack of that official communication, as established by the prevailing legislation --...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u154	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u155	...some files by which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u156	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u157	...the instructor has already asked us to study and evaluate the possible environmental damage caused. And if these conditions are confirmed, sanctions can reach up to 2 million euros under the Natural Heritage Act. So, Mrs. Presas -- also Mr. Arangüena and Mrs. Díaz -- in response to your questions, Junta is taking action. It has taken steps to debug all responsibilities to the end. From the German Government, of course, we're not looking elsewhere, nor are we going to accept this kind of empty -- which is the first time that's done in twenty years -- executed in addition to in an unjustified way for us and unjustified for the rest of the Greeks. And it happens that it is done in a historical moment when the price of light for taxpayers acquires its highest level. But it seems that the central government says that this is not the case, that they get profiled and don't act, and that they even justify it. And so it is -- that they justify it -- that they make statements like this that came out in some media these past days, in which it says that "the hydrographic denies that the investigated electricians do not comply with their concessions." And they stayed so wide! On the other hand, it is true that the central government qualifications scandalous the emptying of embalms by Iberdrola to produce cheaper energy. The minister for the Ecological Transition, Teresa Ribera, says that he already investigates this practice that the electrical performs also in other areas, such as Zamora or Caceres. You agree, because both are supposed to be of the same branch. Nadia Calvino says, "We're going to clarify and we're going to put an end to the bad practices of hydroelectrics," and measures are being taken to avoid inadequate management of public conditions for purely economic reasons. Teresa Ribera, once again, says: "The situation is tremendous, with risks of all kinds, environmental to the river ecosystem and social impact, apart from the mismanagement that represents water as an economic good that is clouded when desired." From the Galician Junta, on our side, be sure that we will reach the end in the investigation of the sanctioning files, which are already open. Mrs. Díaz, you asked me if we had official notification by the Confederation, as set out in the law. The answer is clear and I repeat it again: the conca organism has never been addressed to the Galician Union -- in particular, to the competent councillor, who is the Environmental Council --. And the law states that the hydrographic confederation is the one that must authorize the maneuvers in the cours and then notify them to the Environmental Council so that it can put the conditions in relation to the fish field. That never happened. Article 83 of the Water Management Regulation: "Whereever an individual or a concessionary entity of a hydraulic use is going to cancel or empty out a total or partial body of water in which there is a cyclical population that may be affected by the reduction or disappearance of the water mass, it shall communicate it to the competent body at least one month in advance, which shall immediately notify the Agriculture, Glandery and Mountains Board of the measures to be taken to protect the said population." It's that simple, Mr. Aranguena, you don't have to turn around any more. And he keeps insisting that this was done... well, you're able to deny yourself. [[Murmurs.]] What I don't know is what happens behind this whole process. Can you, as a Member, thus stain your image because you are continually defending the President of the Hydrographic Confederation? What's behind all this? Don't go that way because it's not right. [[Murmurs.]] I'm reading the article. Don't you understand? On the other hand, I tell you, there was no communication; therefore, there was no trial and could not proceed to any emptying. Because you know one thing: if the Council didn't answer, silence would always be negative, never positive, Mr. Aranguena. [[Applause]] The Hydrographic Confederation has skipped the entire legal procedure and acted through the back door, or maybe I don't know if with the "you go and see if nobody tells us why they're on vacation." And here I would tell you to apologize to environmental agents. They do their job, they're real professionals, and they've done what they had to do at the right time. They're not responsible for the president of the Confederation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u158	Thank you very much, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the reply, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u159	Mrs. Vázquez, I believe that today, since they have done this performance of delivering the minutes of Members -- or that they are going to do it -- because they could take advantage of it and leave this board directly vacant, because for what we need... they could already do that directly. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, you came here and all he did was follow that "pim pam pum" with the central government. And the conclusion is that nothing changes and the electrics are still doing the same thing. But it's just that, above all, I don't know if you're lying or ignoring reality anymore, because you come here and doesn't explain why it took those administrative records to start, it doesn't explain why they took time to act knowing that this was going to happen -- they don't give explanations for the part that belongs to Galician Union --. And then, above all, he comes here to say such serious issues -- that you confirm -- that this affected the extinction and prevention of fires and that we trust that the rest of September will be safe and secure because it rains, not because the Galician Union acts. That's very serious, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] You also come here saying that this has never happened in our country. Listen!, let's get some information, because your colleagues in Iberdrola in 2012 have already been sanctioned by CNMC for doing this in the Sil basin. I don't know if it's worse than they either ignore or cheat and manipulate in favor of their colleagues in Iberdrola, as they do. [[Applause]] And lastly, Counsellor, of course, what is not assumed is that, above all, they now say that you normally act on your own, that you are very diligent and so on. But what happens, is it the first time the Conchas are empty and there are cyanobacteria? This happens every summer and you not only act but even mayors of the People's Party on one side allow the bathroom and the other not, because not even Galician waters act as they ought for public health in this area. So these are the issues that perfectly reflect how you're profiled. In this case it was very clear in the speech of the spokesperson in Parliament on behalf of the People's Party. They act because there is media pressure, unique and exclusively. Of course, we won't stop until there's an explanation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Secondly, for the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u161	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Counselor. I believe that from his intervention, which was clear and forceful, it is perfectly deduced that from the very first moment to the Council of Galicia has highlighted his concern for the situation of these concoctions, and especially for the possible consequences of a possible drought. And even it was addressed by letter on 25 August to the third vice president and minister of the Ecological Transition -- who is the one who has the competence in these touches affected by the hydrographic demarcation -- to clarify the circumstances in which that vacuum was produced, if he allowed them under 20 % and, if so, what were the reasons for that authorization. From the People's Parliamentary Group we are aware of the measures being taken by the Government of Greece and the relevant complaints, especially motivated by those minimal historical ones that have never been reached with the opening of the corresponding sanctioning dossiers. The fishing law is very clear, as the regulation is very clear. You said it and I insist. At the moment when a massive emptying is done in a choir or any work that may influence the field of fish or natural heritage, who is the competent body? The State Government. Through whom? From the hydrographic confederation, which has to make it known, through the legal procedure established, of the autonomous administration. It's clear, Counselor. It was also clear that there were no e-mails, that there were no entry logs of any official communications from the relevant organism -- it says confederation --. Today, Counsellor, the Confederation and its President have contacted you or the Government of Greece to show your concern about what is really happening in your demarcation? have you had any response from the minister to that letter in which he expresses his concern and addressed you? Or maybe with respect to other government members who have recognized that there is a problem, do you know that this may involve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u163	Give me a few seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u164	We're restarting the system, we'll continue in a minute. [[Pause.]] Let's see if he's going now. Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor for the replica shift. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u165	Counsellor, perhaps it was the amount of lies that came here today that took time to explain why Mr. Feijóo lied to the citizen by saying around the press that he wasn't informed by the companies when the next day emails were published showing exactly the opposite, exactly the opposite of what you say in article 83. When reading, it just says the opposite of what you interpret that says: that it's you who have to take action. And Mr. Feijóo lowered this year's electric sanctions for emptying embalms of up to €300,000 to about €25,000, a 92 percent discount on his friend, the president of Iberdrola. But besides, if you and Feijóo say that we are facing an issue of great ecological transcendence and if Mr Feijóo doesn't act and you don't act, they predict. Because there are three autonomous laws in Galicia that force them to act: fishing, natural heritage and environmental protection in Galicia, three laws. And they have to act on their own. So far the only thing they've done is to blame the central government, open up four criminal sanctions files with seventy days' delay and say they can open other files -- you told us here again -- amounting to 2 million euros. But don't open them, you can open them, but don't open them! It opens 25,000. And you don't tell the electricians what the measures they have to take to avoid environmental damage -- that's what article 83 says you read yourself but that you didn't seem to understand -- that you have to do it on your own. Therefore, on the basis of all this, will this familiar friendship be with the President of Iberdrola -- by some extent charged by the National Court for three offences -- which prevents Mr Feijóo from taking the measures he has to take legally? Is Mr. Feijóo prevaricating because he's Mr. Galán's friend? Why did Mr. Feijó lie? Tell me, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u167	Thank you very much, President. I really don't stop coming out of my wonder. Let's see, a little bit about society, a little about citizenship! Mrs. Presas, I'll tell you that the National Market and Competition Commission has opened on its day file and sanction, but not for emptying, but for altering the price of light. You understand. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, I don't know what you don't know. There are two competitions... now it's up to me, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u168	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u169	Galicia is divided between the powers of the Galician Union and the Hydrographic Confederation. Is there a problem with the concoctions on which Xunta de Galicia competes? Isn't that right, Mrs. Presas? Well, ask your opposition partners for responsibility, don't ask Galician Union. Research Commission? I'm in your favor but where it has to be at Congress. You, who are so proud of them moving, do that job, because it's there. They are competent, unique and exclusively. And if you want to be on the side of the Greeks, do it, but ask for responsibilities. What would you think, Mr. Arangüena, if suddenly a citizen on foot, a company or even a council that has to do a work, and which has an obligation -- which is the sectoral report by the Confederation -- they tell 112 that they are going to perform the work and that, therefore, as you know, the 112 that are going to do the work, the Directorate-General of Urbanism has already been notified and therefore continues the work? What would the president of the Hydrographic Confederation do? Why does he continually sanction citizens, why does he continually sanction municipalities, and why does he go hand in hand and crochet with Iberdrola, Mr. Arangüena? Who allowed the emptying, Mr. Arunguena? [[Applause]] Was it Mr. Feijó? [[Murmurs.]] But are you really kidding?Oh, my God! Who has the competition?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u170	Silence, Mr. Aranguena! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u171	Look, I didn't have much anymore, the truth, but you lost all credibility after the Vice President, Teresa Ribera, had assumed her powers. It can't be any other way. And today at 7:30 a.m., we were brought in by Rexel -- that we did open the mails, emails and official notifications, something that denies and doesn't do it out of ignorance or because he doesn't want and doesn't like the president of the Hydrographic Confederation -- and they also got their answers -- I suppose that after he's pulled out and much through his ears, because you can't do that ridiculous and get to this situation without opening any kind of file and saying that they're still investigating --.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u172	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u173	And you tell us -- that we don't have competences, because the only thing we have is through Natural Heritage all the time and when it's contrasting that there's an affection to flora and fauna -- that it takes seventy days. Look, we did what we did was open the procedure. And you know what the president of the Hydrographic Confederation did? It's been days in April! Now we're waiting for after that opening, which I've got here... well, look, we've sent him the 3rd day with the sanctions. He refused to have them. Too bad there were the corresponding "notifices". And he and the Hydrographic Confederation -- what a coincidence! -- they opened on the 7th, they waited until the 7th to open them. Well, they now have until the 21st to present the corresponding allegations. And he says he doesn't find out. Well, actually, you don't find out or you're in another world. Therefore, discrediting, after a letter from the Minister says: "The Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Retem is working on the application of article 55 of the recast text of the Water Law, which allows the regime to operate embalms when the availability of the remedy is required." You read it, and if you don't, I'll move it. Which is that this letter came on Friday and, as we have institutional respect, we don't happen to be sending the letter everywhere. But here's that letter. The Central Government therefore recognises that current regulations already allow Mr Quiroga to enforce the law. And I had to enforce the law. At no time does the minister have to say that the emptying of the state support is the competence of an autonomic organ -- it would just be missing! --, as you intend to say, that's reality. Please, Mr. Arunguena, follow the example of the minister, who seems to be the only one who demonstrates knowledge of the vigour legislation. The balance of the situation, Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Presas, is very clear and is also very graphic. The Hydrographic Confederation has done nothing and continues without it. He says he's going to investigate. Investigate what? This lord will tell us whether or not he has authorized the emptying of the frames. This gentleman will have to prove that, under the law, after having authorized them, he has transferred the corresponding notification to the Environmental Council. And how long has it taken you to investigate it? That's five minutes, Mr. Aranguena. But we're kidding here, honestly. You just threw balls out and asked the Board to assume responsibilities. And we're assuming it, I'd miss more. On the other hand, Gonzalo Caballero says there must be a country reflection on the situation of the embassies and that he recognizes that the concessionaires have a certain regime that enables them to do certain things that they may not like. That's right, he forgot something fundamental, which is Article 55 of the Water Law. Chance is that in today's day -- after a few days, after the letter had been sent to the President of the Confederation -- had entered by Rexel his letter and paradoxically recognized what the former Vice President and Minister of Ecological Transition: that the Hydrographic Confederation allowed the emptied calibre of this caliber, which in 20 years had never been executed to these limits, despite the fact that it rained longer this summer than the past. He says he's still investigating and we don't know very well what. And I'm the only one asking for today is a correction. It's just a question of how such administrative ignorance is possible on the part of a high government position, whether there really exists such administrative ignorance or what else there is to be discovered, and what hidden interests there is in all this way to proceed. Because I have to tell you that I have examples here, and I could have dozens of examples, of how the Hydrographic Confederation is doing in accordance with the law. It happens that this is the first time he doesn't do it that way. Too many occurrences. Do you believe them? Not me. And on the other hand, what do you want to hide from the Hydrographic Confederation and the Socialist Party? Madam Presas, would you like to be next to the Greeks? Read to her. There's no interpretation possible. Ask for responsibilities who you have to ask for. This isn't just about balloons out here and that the government... actually, we're going to face it, we acted -- and we were the only ones -- but it would be good if your opposition colleagues too had done the relevant replicas. The only competent and fully responsible administration for emptying the seals is the central government through the Hydrographic Confederation. That's the only truth -- and it's also recognised by two vice presidents and today also by the President of the Confederation --. Something's happening, we don't know what happened, and why there was this lack of functions. We qualify the attitude, of course, of irresponsible, fearful and intentional. Environmental agents and technicians are doing a great job. And we hope that, on behalf of the Hydrographic Confederation, your president will at least have the decency to contact the mayors and give the relevant explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u174	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the recognition of Greek internationally
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u175	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Compasses Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u176	Congratulations, Mr. President. Over the past few weeks in the BNG Parliamentary Group, we have been aware of multiple complaints from Welsh citizens who have been unable to travel to the United Kingdom in different airlines from the Rosalía de Castro de Santiago de Compostela airport. After having previously submitted and validated all the documentation required by Vueling and Ryanair companies, just at the time of embarking they were banned from accessing the aircraft, which forced them to stay on the ground with the consequent conditions in their travel plan and also in their life plan, such as the delay in their re-entry into work or studies, because in many cases they were students traveling to Erasmus stays. The reason they argued from the staff of these airlines was no other than the fact that they were written in Greek the antigen test issued by the pharmacies according to the official model of the Galician Union; a decision that was later confirmed, in conversations with these people, such as arbitrary, confusing, with excessive zeal and even ill-treatment of the client, and which showed the Board's inability to enforce its authority as well as the validity of an official certificate written in Galicia's own language, and also official. While airlines denied them the possibility of recovering the amount of tickets and even made it difficult for them to access the sheets of claims, many of them affected -- and also workers of these companies -- they publicly denounced what has been a too repeated practice: the violation of the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. So far, as we know, the Board has made no public assessment of this situation, which is clearly discriminatory. It is not clear to us that I have kept in touch with people who have been aggravated for language reasons to be interested in the consequences that this situation has caused, nor has it been made necessary, from the state of government of the country, the full usefulness of our own language, our official language, for all contexts within and also outside our country. In the face of this silence -- which we understand to be unjustifiable -- we ask from the Parliamentary Group of the BNG that it intends to make the Board to once and for all achieve the recognition of our language at the international level, before what has been a repeated violation of linguistic rights, in order to guarantee precisely that right to use, use, our own and official language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u178	Good afternoon again, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question, in which there are two well-differentiated questions: on the one hand, the subject of diagnostic tests, which is what you refer to, and on the other hand, the subject of discrimination in Greek. Last July to Junta de Galicia, with the issuance of the decree at the state level that allowed the use of antigen tests, self-tests, without medical prescription, and after warning that these tests, without health control or a proper registration system, could generate more problems than they could initially solve, since they signed an agreement with the four official pharmacy schools to enable those people who bought self-tests in the pharmacy offices and who did so before the pharmacist in certain conditions had incorporated that information into our epidemiological treatment system; fundamental to detect the positives, to know the negatives and, especially in the positive cases, to automatically request the corresponding PCR without the need for the patient to go to the health center and somehow ease the burden that the health centers had on this wave -- in that line would automatically incorporate the data --. It is also true that, with that automatic incorporation in a context that we had at that time of request or validity of the vaccination certificate, diagnostic evidence of active infection or having passed the disease, in order to access the host would the Galician Union established that this report that was prepared in the pharmacy office, at the time that these data were incorporated into the Welsh epidemiological register, could serve within the autonomous community as a diagnostic test certificate. And we did so because the European Union document establishing international travel conditions clearly left out of that regulation the self-tests. The reason is quite simple: in the self-tests, taking the sample makes the patient himself and the assurances that the sample is correct because they are more doubtful. In conventional PCRs, or in conventional antigens, it does a professional -- as we all know -- and it reaches the bottom, it does the sample. And in the case of self-tests the European Union understood that this method was not valid to issue the corresponding certificate which allowed it to fly. We have warned from the very first moment that this certificate was not for flying. We say it as active and passive, and every time someone asks us, we say it like that. It's true that some companies accepted this certificate to fly, but from the very first moment -- I insist -- we said it wasn't valid. At the moment we realized that some companies were not allowing it, because, of course, the Education Counsellor, in this case, contacted these airlines to insist on the convenience that the Greek could also be used. But the point is that the British Government, in this case, has limited only...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u179	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[The last words of the counsellor's speech are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u180	The violation of the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks on the part of Sergas is public and notoriously repeated, and in fact, he has just admitted these complaints to the People's Valley itself; which means that we are in the face of a sum of grievances that are repeated. Its intervention, which comes again to leave evidence and to testify, is the lack of correspondence between what is the Government's theoretical discourse and then its practical application and its realization in facts. You get your answer -- I think it's a non-response -- a real stalker silence again about what is the violation of the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. And deep down, it answers a policy that I think it does is to allow the progress, whatever progress, of linguistic normalization. There is clearly a portrait of what is the inability of the People's Party's Government to enforce the Welsh language, to enforce its own language and official status in our country, and also to enforce without any prejudice the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because we understand that if an official certificate of negative antigens guarantees good health, in the case of travellers, it also has to be a guarantee of the good health of the language that believes it -- which in this case is, of course, our language --. You didn't respond to any kind of effective positioning and action that took place in relation to these companies that denied the use of our language -- companies that, on the other hand, are also continuously and repeatedly receiving very substantial public funds --. You'll have to keep this in mind. Finally, the questions remain in the air, and I leave them explicit again: when you intend to act the People's Party in accordance with the linguistic mandate of the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government, the Law of Linguistic Standardization and the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek Language, what did you really do to avoid this discrimination or to resolve it later from the Council itself, from the Government itself?, do you really have a serious plan to achieve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u182	...the recognition of Greek internationally? When's the government gonna...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints, your time is up. For the Government's reply, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u184	Thank you very much, President. I insist that this certificate was not originally recognised for travel, we said -- I repeat -- for active and passive. When the pharmacy offices got in touch with us, we warned that the certificate, not by language but by the nature of the test, was not used to travel. I think we made it very clear. I thank the pharmacy offices again for that predisposition to do so. The certificate was, by default, always in English, unless the citizen specifically said he wanted it in Spanish. And when we became aware of this reality, we made contact with the College of Pharmaceuticals to continue to insist that the certificate, in any language, was not worth flying -- I repeat -- because of the nature of the evidence that was being done. And specifically, the Education Counsellor sent to the British ambassador in Spain a letter that moved him to that discrimination that these travelers suffered from those who carried him in Spanish, for example -- because some German citizen took him in Spanish and had no problems --. That discrimination did indeed move to the British ambassador, and he insisted in that writing that the documents in English, like those in Spanish, were accepted in the future. But, I insist, the nature of the certificate was never to travel, because it did not meet the European certificate requirement that it was used to travel. In any case, I thank the pharmacy schools for that predisposition to help us with this. If there was no such collaboration, none of these travelers, either in Spanish or in Greek, could have traveled. They did, and the airlines, according to their discretion, decided to accept the certificate or not. I repeat, for those who did not accept it there was a formal written by the Education Counsellor to the ambassador, in which it was insisted that, if admitted in Spanish, it should of course be admitted in Greek. Nothing else, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the impact that came into force of the Health Benefits Guarantee Act in the waiting times of the Galego Health Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u185	Whenever you want, Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u186	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, in December 2013 the Galician Parliament approved, with the popular group's votes and the vote against the opposition, the Health Insurance Act. Shortly thereafter, the Board began to develop the various aspects regulated in this law, through the corresponding Regulations 159/2014, 54/2015 and 55/2015, and finally by Decree 105/2017 of 28 September, so the system of guarantees of maximum periods of access to public health benefits is regulated. During the debate on the adoption of this law, the opposition came to make statements that I will read to them on a textual basis. Mrs. Prado said that "times that offer 60 days for surgical operations and 40 days for consultations and diagnostic tests are impossible to comply with in the current situation to which you" -- that is, the People's Party -- "have been subject to public health, and they know it perfectly." "A law" -- it said -- "which means a pure and harsh ideological choice, since response times are not going to be guaranteed. It is unique and exclusively sacrificing public health and ensuring waiting times by supporting and putting public resources into private health. It's not a law to guarantee rights but it's a law to guarantee I'm going from business to private health." And the Galician Socialist Party didn't stay short either. We listened to Mrs. Acuña's pearls like these: "It's easy to deduce that the budget of what we have today to fund the public system will be what you share, what you distribute, between the public system, the concerted and the private system. It generated differences between people, differences between rich and poor. Those who have can make use of the Law of Assurances, because they can forward the travel expenses to go to private health." Mrs Acuña was also sorry that this was a trap law that intended only to privatise and further weaken the public health system and distribute the few resources between public and private health. Counsellor, eight years have passed since the adoption of this law and three since the entry into force of the decree to develop the guarantee of maximum times, which was what generated all these suspicions in the opposition. It seems to us that it is time to evaluate the real impact of this measure. So today, from the People's Group, we want to know whether all these free assertions and these prophecys of aggressors who made the opposition to the law have been fulfilled. What can you tell us about this? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. Of course, it was more than categorical the words of the opposition a few years ago. Yeah, look, I'm gonna give you the data on how these prophecies are fulfilled. This "putting public resources into private health," of what the BNG was talking about, or that "safe trade," of what socialists were talking about, was translated into which, of the more than 150,000 patients who benefited from the Guarantees Act until June of this year, the total of zero patients were deducted from the private sector. I think it's a rather eloquent fact to show the divergence between the speech on health that keeps the opposition from Greece and the reality that citizenship lives in this country. [[Applause]] The law of supposed massive private derivation caused these zero private leads, like the reform of the Health Act, which was going to shut down the comarcas hospitals, led to the fact that we are expanding and reforming all the Welsh comarcas hospitals and renewing their technological equipment. I think it's important to remember these things, because the same ones who said this about private derivations by the Guarantees Act are the ones who are talking today about the primary situation. The credibility is the same: no -- in 2008 in primary there were almost 600 people less than the ones there are right now --. It is the same credibility with which every summer the collapse of beds is prophesied, when the reality is that every summer, as the manager of Sergas reported last week in this Parliament, the occupation of the Greek hospitals is below 75 percent of the beds. But the most serious thing, Mrs. Friend, is not what they said, but what they voted accordingly. They voted against a law that allowed in the last four years that 57,404 people had access to a diagnostic test in less than forty-five days, that another 57,485 people had access to a first expert consultation in less than forty-five days and that another 36,288 people had access to a surgical intervention in less than sixty days. We're talking about people with oncological pathologies, with aortic insufficiency, with brain aneurysms, with neoplasias, carcinomas, hydrocephalies or retinal detachments; and 151.177 people with pathologies like these had access to rapid treatment thanks to a law that the PSOE and the BNG voted against based exclusively on a lie. This is the hard reality. [[Applause]] We will continue to develop this law, we will continue to accelerate the treatment of these patients, and we will continue to keep spending on private health concerts under what these parties had when they ruled, as the reports of the Board of Auditors show each year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u189	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u190	Thank you very much, Counselor. The data that we are being moved here today show that not only did the opposition lie in the debate on the adoption of this law, but the results are excellent, because, as you said, they have benefited more than 150,000 Greeks. And they also went to the system set, as it was very accelerated thanks to this mechanism. PSOE has been talking about this summer -- as always -- that waiting lists have increased compared to before the pandemic. Of course, this was inevitable for obvious reasons, so a plan for the recovery of activity was adopted in April this year, with EUR 15 million, to be able to recover that activity which the pandemic forced to suspend. But what the PSOE does not say is that, even after a pandemic, the average June 2021 expectations, both for interventions and for specialist consultations, were all lower than the average expectations that existed in the Galician Health Service in 2009, when the health officer was the Socialist Party, without pandemic and without crisis. They forgot, that always forgets them. Look, I'm going to give you data for the House to know this data: surgical interventions in 2008 were 71.5 days; in June 2021, after a pandemic, 70.2; specialist consultations in 2008 were 60.8; after the pandemic, 42.6. But we, since the PP, of course, are not going to comply with the fact that public health works better than the Socialist Party, that leaves a very low list for us. That's why this recovery plan continues, which has already allowed us to reduce waiting times in about forty days for diagnostic tests. And in this improvement of expectations -- as we said -- they also influence those processes that are accelerated thanks to the Guarantees Law, so in this second turn we would like to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u191	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u192	Thank you. Now in the reply, the counsellor answers. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u193	Madam Friend, of course, the application of this Guarantee Law has had a positive overall impact on the waiting data of the Galician Health Service. There are parties these days that say that today we have more hope than before the pandemic. This is generally true for two reasons: on the one hand, the pandemic forced activity in hospitals to be restricted for months, but also because just before the Galician pandemic had reached the smallest expectations of its history. In part it was thanks to this Law of Assurances, but also, thanks to that Law of Assurances, the pandemic did not affect certain care processes. For example, in priority 1 surgery -- among which most of those who benefit from the Guarantee Law -- the average expectation in June this year was 14.4 days, the least expected of the entire history of Sergas since there were records and despite the pandemic. Or, for example, in the rapid pathways of cancer, which are collected in the Law of Guarantees, both for first consultations and for diagnostic tests, were resolved in 2021 in 4.4 days on average, which is also the smallest wait since they were implanted. I want to remember that when these rapid pathways were implemented, the goal of these pathways was that no patient with these pathologies would wait more than fifteen days. I insist, we're at 4.4. But another way to see the effectiveness of this Guarantee Act is to go to data compared to other autonomous communities, which are the ones offered by the Ministry of Health. The latest data is from December 2020, on the way out of the second wave of the pandemic, and there are eloquent results. For example, the percentage of patients who have been waiting for surgery in Galicia for more than six months is 3.9 percent of the waiting list. No doubt, they're too many and we'd like them to be less, but we're the second autonomous community with less. In the meantime, we see that Aragon is located in 25% of patients over six months -- I repeat that in Galicia is 3.9% --, or Catalonia in 27% of patients over six months. Something will influence our system of guarantees to have these results. By the way, Asturias -- for example for socialists -- has 4.8% of patients waiting for more than six months, which is a point more than Galicia. For things like this, it's really amazing to see PSdeG Members denouncing dramatic waiting lists at Santiago Hospital because the half-waiting time in this hospital is 73 days, when the half-waiting time in Asturias, in June 2021, according to the Asthurian Government itself, is 85.3; or to consider insumable a 51-day wait for a magnetic resonance -- which, of course, disgusts us -- when the average wait for a resonance on that same date in the Asthurian health system was 108 days. Of course, they will not rectify, as they did not rectify to the evidence that the Guarantee Law did not produce the effects that they prophesied and that you so well summarized. But at least the Greek citizenship will once again see the lack of credibility that they have when they talk about health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u194	Thank you, Counselor. Let us turn to the question of Mr. Pablo Arangüena, of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. Question by Dr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation by the Galician board of the requirement to apply for the vaccination certificate to access the sites dedicated to the hostel
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u195	Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, in August we learned from a press release from the High Court of Justice, that the Galician Union had been forcing the hostel to issue a vaccination certificate without any legal authorization. This is a serious illegality and another example of the authoritarian tics of the Galician PP after the Constitutional Court forced the Government of Galicia to set off with the mandatory vaccination of the Welsh Health Act. Only after those twenty days of flagrant illegality, and after an auto from the High Court that literally spoke of "anomaly proceeding" on the part of Junta for not applying for this judicial authorization, Mr. Feijóo decided to apply for this judicial authorization by self-employment without apologizing any kind of apology for generating a real chaos at the inn. What I know is, it's the first time in Spain that a court has to explain to an autonomous government that a restrictive measure of fundamental rights has no vigil if it's not legally authorized. This puts Junta de Galicia as the ruling autonomous administration in illegality and we are asked to obey this situation, because it may be that Mr. Feijóo wants to compete with Vox in authoritarianism, that pandemic fatigue has disrupted the German Government or that twenty-five years inhaling the leaks of the official car tapestry turn Mr. Feijóo into a politician who is considered above the laws. But someone should take responsibility, because the Board didn't even give the slightest explanation for their illegality. That's why we have to remind Mr Feijóo that the absolute majority does not allow him to rule since illegality, because only after the reminder of the High Court of Justice and to apply for 20 days a measure completely illegal for lack of authorization was when the Board applied for that judicial authorization. I mean, first they committed illegality, then the High Court of Justice took them out of their ears and then they ask for permission, creating chaos in the hostel on the way -- by the way, not relieved by yesterday's Supreme Court resolution, which says exactly that you had to have applied for that judicial authorization --. If the President of the Union does not like the laws, what he has to do is dedicate himself to something else, but he cannot unilaterally decide to restrict fundamental rights without judicial authorization, sowing chaos at the hostel, when during confinement he criticized precisely the restriction of rights and the alleged chaos that generated the measures that were then taken for the first time in the history of our country. And from there our question: how is such a serious irregularity possible?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u197	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u198	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Arangénana, you have colleagues in the group who are ill-lucky, some Members of the Socialist Group have qualified in this House as "the Bolivarian delirium, an authoritarian drift or a democratic retreat" a law that later literally copied -- points and commas included -- a socialist government -- in this case in Balearics --. That was bad luck, because they couldn't know that their party colleagues would copy the law they just criticized here. Yours is more serious, Mr. Aranguena, because you are accusing of anti-democratic behaviour on the part of the German Government for an event that has already happened to the Socialist Government of the Canary Islands. If I knew it, bad; and if I didn't, I think it's even more serious. There in the Canary Islands, on July 26, the decision to implement this certificate was adopted to reduce the health risks within the hostel without judicial authorization, and three days later, after an appeal by a host association, the High Court of Justice annulled it. Consequently, Mr Arunguena, when the same happens to us as different political governments, why will it be? Perhaps, because there is no basic organic regulation that clearly specifies what we can and cannot do. And it doesn't exist because you don't want it. They voted against this same Parliament, even though the Central Government had promised that reform of organic legislation in May 2020 and although it was expressly requested by the Council of State and the Supreme Court. Look, we're working on a clinical committee of public health experts, epidemiology, preventive medicine and other health specialties. Those people considered the certificate's request to be an appropriate choice from a scientific point of view. But we also work in the sector. And the majority associations in the host sector saw with good eyes a measure that would allow preventive measures to open the interiors that were previously closed. The chaos at the hostel didn't produce that request. Once the Government, listening to the experts and the sectors concerned, makes this decision, the juridical services of the Union must give it legal form within that uncertain framework that the Government of Spain insists not to resolve. And the legal services considered -- I think with good logic -- that if the total closure of the interiors of bars did not require judicial authorization, it should not require partial closure, which is what it was. Subsequently, the High Court of Justice considers that this measure should be subject to its discretion for affecting the right of data protection, and in this case, where it is submitted, does not authorize it. Since June we disagreed with this decision, but our order expressly specified that the host would only check those data at the time of entry, and that in no way would it preserve or create files with them. And, as we disagree, we appeal to the Supreme Court. And yesterday he gave us the reason. I expected this question to be withdrawn, at least. [[Applause]] But even if it hadn't been like that, what we'd never say is that the opposition to the Government is being exercised by the judges, as the Central Government said when the Constitutional Court ruled that they held for three months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u199	Sir, Counselor, thank you, you have another turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u200	...a state of unconstitutional alarm. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u201	Replica, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u202	Counsellor, I ask you how it is possible that you commit the illegality of restricting a fundamental right without asking for legal authorization and you are shown to be gratifying because a court has given them reason in an appeal, as if a court trial were a football game that won or lost you, which shows a great ignorance on your part of what judicial proceedings are and what is right. But that court didn't give them the reason -- as I've already told you -- in what I report here, which is that you have applied a restrictive measure of rights for 20 days without being worthy of requesting judicial authorization and causing chaos along the way. And the Supreme Court ruling we met yesterday specifically says on page 10 -- the sixth, tenth and next legal basis -- that you had to have applied for judicial authorization, which is exactly what I'm questioning you here. And if Junta is legitimized to skip the law, there will be anyone who feels legitimized to do what he wants, like not respecting the restriction or, you know, not paying taxes. That's why I find it unheard of that a public administration such as the Union violates legality in this way, sowing chaos along the way. And we fear that Mr. Feijó is so concerned about his propaganda that he loses his way in a situation that requires health measures but also about the laws and rights of citizenship, because without law there is no democracy. We remember when Mr. Feijóo said what the state of alarm generated alarm, a real nonsense. But the one who generates alarm is Mr. Feijóo breaking the laws without scrutinizing and implementing measures without judicial authorization which he must then disembark by sowing chaos along the way. We wonder how it is possible for the Union to demand that citizenship fulfil so many obligations and make so many sacrifices and not exaggerate itself or even a minimum of respect for the law. And today, the truth is, we have no other explanation than the silence and official propaganda paid with public money.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u203	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Aranguena, I'm going to stop in a statement that you're doing -- I did it before, and I did it in writing -- that I'm not going to stop being recognizant. You say that the opposition -- or you, it seems -- met through a press release by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that the Board had not applied for judicial relief for this measure. Also, some of the BNG members published on the twitter their surprise to know through the car that this authorization had not been requested. Look, since May, when the second alarm state has ended, the Official Journal of Galicia, something that we should often read, classifys measures to deal with the pandemic in two types of order: some are entitled "qualified measures that need judicial authorization", and they collect perimeter closures, mobility limitations -- in this case at night -- or group restrictions; and others, which are entitled "specific prevention measures" and which are collected by those that do not subject to judicial authorization, such as those related to the opening of the hostel. Well, the measure of implementation of the covid certificates appeared in the DOG of June 25 within the order of specific measures, and you say they discovered in August that the Board had not applied for judicial authorization. It is surprising to note that the opposition does not even read the DOG. [[Applause]] It did not act here in any spirit of concealment or obscurantism, it acted with the conviction that it was taking the epidemiologically correct measure, with the support of the affected sector and with the legal form which it considered appropriate. Here the only thing that's been hidden was a central government that's been hiding for a year to circumvent its responsibilities of providing autonomous communities with a clear legal framework to take the necessary health measures. Galicia wants to conduct itself within the legal and constitutional framework, and so I proposed a more specific organic framework adapted to the situation of the pandemic, which the Central Government did not want to accept. That's why we approved an own health legislation -- that the Central Government wanted to boycott -- and that's why we defend our health measures before the Supreme, to act within the law. And this court confirmed we did. This has indeed been devastating for some speeches that have held the opposition these days. Mr. Aranguena, we certainly regret having to act in this framework of uncertainty, but the central government of the Socialist Party is what created this situation of legal insecurity, which does not allow us to support such a measure as that of the hidden certificate, which works well and with total normality in many of the countries around us. You have pushed the autonomous communities to act without appropriate organic legislation, offering us as the only alternative solutions that we are seeing today as unconstitutional ones. Well, as long as the PSOE continues to block organic legislation in the state, boycotting the Welsh legislation and skipping the Constitution with its measures, we'll have to face it. Because the Galician Union has always defended that the pandemic must be fought with a clear legal framework and within the Constitution, just as it seems that socialists do not want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u205	Thank you, Counselor. Question by da Sandra Vázquez Domínguez and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the balance made by the Galician Union on the 2021 Summer Campaign for Youth in Leisure and Leisure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u206	You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. They'll agree with me that talking about youth is about the future. The council that you preside over offers the possibility that our youth, our youth, use their leisure time in summer by participating in non-formally diverse activities, activities of a cultural, sporting and even formative nature, which serve not only to have fun but also for personal and vital enrichment. The appearance of the coward-19 required a capital effort on the part of public administrations to continue to offer a means of conciliation for the Greek families and non-formal education for the leisure time of our young people who allow them, as they do not, to benefit from the maximum guarantees of prevention and hygiene of a leisure space favourable to their emotions and to their feelings. Many of the necessary adaptations were made in relation to limitations of maximum support in the youth facilities offered, as well as the reinforcement of hygienic-health measures and an increase in monitor/participative ratios for a more efficient service provision and with all its guarantees. Even so, in application of the principle of transversality in disability policies, and with the objective of social inclusion being a reality while favouring, as it does not, the interaction and coexistence between all youth, in this summer's campaign of 2021, the young women and young people with disabilities, depending on the limitations they presented, were able to decide on the mode of participation to which they wished to opt for the general procedure, or also on the procedure of reserved squares for such inclusion. And here, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to acknowledge the enormous work being done by the Greek monitors to promote social inclusion by always preserving the well-being of our young people. Summer camps are a different and fun way to spend summer holidays. The different activities that integrate this programming have been carried out in different shifts during the months of July, August and September. Camps give the option of choosing according to the age and activities that take place in them -- of course various activities related to the camp, such as nautical, sports, environmental, artistic or, among many others, the activities linked also to the Santiago Way --. And after this year's campaign is over, what do you balance on the summer that you deserve, devoted to youth, leisure and leisure? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u208	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u209	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The summer campaign won by its own right to be one of the most emblematic programs in Galician Union. For four decades now he's been leaving his indelible footprint in the memory of many Greeks and Greeks, who have grown up among the various shelters of the Galician Union and among the tents. Last year it's true that we found ourselves at a crossroads, which was to settle for suspending all summer camps, as almost all autonomous communities have done at national level, or to demarcate and move on with this beautiful program. We obviously opt for this second option. We learned a lot and the result was very positive. With the experience gained during last year, this year the decision was much easier. The summer campaign of the year 2021 led as the motto "The summer you deserve," and the election was not a result of chance. After a year and a half of responsibility, after a year and a half of caring for their elders, for refusing to have fun in the way that was done before, for living every day in a different way and for making many sacrifices, the young people of Greece deserved an extraordinary summer, of course, yes, but also a summer with all their senses. The summer 2021 campaign made available to young people in Galicia a very wide and varied offer, combining entertainment with caution: summer camps for the youngest in Galicia in 35 spaces different from our community, 4 more than the previous year; volunteering camps available to young people in 40 different locations, 13 new fields compared to the year 2020; setting up in different hotels in our community, with mini-camps "Known Galicia", which not only allowed the youngest to be five days at different hotels in Galicia, but also enabled the hotel sector of our community to be revitalized; or also the five exchanges with autonomous communities, such as Basque Country, Castela and León or Rioxa, which we were able to recover this year's 2021 after they were suspended last year by the epidemiological situation. In total, there were 7,800 squares for boys and girls between 9 and 30 years, a thousand more squares than the previous year, thanks to the sum of more shifts, more facilities and more activities. The summer campaign is leisure and it's fun, but it's also job creation, because, to organize and dynamize all these activities, more than 1,200 professionals in the spare time sector were hired, who actually did an excellent job. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u210	Thank you, Counselor. Replica by Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. "The summer you deserve" and, of course, that our youth well deserves, that well deserves this effort -- and not only the summer camps this year, but also the effort to keep the camps of the hard year 2020 --. Clearly, success in planning is a success, Counselor. The success of the 2021 summer campaign is beyond doubt. To coordinate activities of different themes, with young people and girls of different ages, looking for the well-being for those who need it most and in a pandemic context is the great work that has been developed since their advice, from the Youth General Directorate, Participation and Volunteering, and from the Health Council for the implementation of the protocol; but above all, it is the success of monitors, organizers and participants, who have managed to make fun, illusion and sentinel the basic principles of this campaign. From the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to thank you for the good behavior that you have maintained and maintained your youth during the year and a half that you have had with pandemics, sympathy and exemplary behavior during one of the most important stages of young people and young women in Greece. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u212	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. To close this question, the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u213	Thank you, President. Mrs Vázquez, thank you very much for your approach. The data shows that the Galician families once again trusted, one more year, in the camps that organizes the Galician Union, because it is a safe leisure offer but also that it lends itself with all guarantees, but above all also because it is a conciliation resource that the Union makes available to the Galician families and also because it is a means of encounter, fun and learning for our youth. For all this, we achieved the success of the previous campaign, but we also managed to improve it with more participants, with more facilities and, yes, with the same fun. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year the summer campaign is consolidated as an alternative of first-level leisure, but also as a state-level reference, which has a triple objective: on the one hand, to encourage the participation of all the young people of Greece in activities that also have a training component, to promote reconciliation -- as was said -- of the Greek families and also to dynamize the leisure and leisure sector, a non-formal education sector, but also to allow our young people to have a good time. I'd like to finish my speech today by thanking again for the enormous work that all the professionals who participated in the summer campaign did, because the work -- which shows me it was all over for this campaign to develop in a very good way -- was, in fact, a success. And it's not because I say so, but because they say it to all the participants who were in the different fields of volunteering, in the camps and also in the mini-camps "Know Galicia", who returned to their homes with new friends, with new friends and full of joy and illusion. All these participants also want to thank you very much for showing exemplary and caring behavior at all times. In this summer campaign it has been demonstrated once again that Galicia can say loud and clear that it has the youth it deserves. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-15-DSPG047.u214	Thank you, Counselor. It ends here the whole thing, which has no more business to deal with. Good afternoon, everyone.
