ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u1	Let's start the plenary meeting. Let's see if we adapt to the presence. [[Pause.]] Don't we have the quorum now? [[Pause.]] They already tell me there's a quorum! Good morning. Let's start. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. No more, we're on the agenda. As point 1, legislating text. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 7th, Agriculture, Food, Gandary and Mountains, on the Proposal for a Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u2	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The President, Mr Vega Pérez, has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The bill tabled by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group entered the Galician Parliamentary Register on 12 January 2021. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on January 12, 2021, admitted to its proceedings and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The bill was taken into consideration at the plenary session on January 26, 2021. The People's Parliamentary Group made one hundred and thirty-seven partial amendments, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group presented seventy-nine amendments and the Galician Socialist Group made two hundred and six amendments, which were qualified on 8 March 2021. Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Gandery and Mountains, at the meeting on 11 March 2021, appointed the following speakers: by the People's Group of Galicia, Ms María Elena Candia López, holder, and Mr José Antonio Armada Pérez, alternate; by the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz, holder, and Ms María González Albert, alternate; by the Group of Socialists of Galicia, Mr Martín Seco García, holder; and María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, alternate. The session constituted by the Presidency took place on 15 March 2021. The remaining meetings were held on 7, 9, 14, 19, 20, 21, 22, 28 and 29 April 2021. The report has been finished in this last session. The Parliament considered the proposal for a law together with the amendments tabled and prepared its report, which contains the recommendations it made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group, except transactions and pending a possible committal. The Presidency also suggested accepting an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and thirty-one amendments from the Galician Socialist Group. Seven amendments by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Galician Socialists and one by the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block have been incorporated into the corresponding amendments. It also recommended the adoption of fifty-three compromises, prepared with the corresponding amendments from the three parliamentary groups. And eleven compromise proposals remained pending for the Commission. Four amendments have been removed from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the Commission meeting on 3 May 2021. And the amendments to which I proposed to the Parliament at fifty-three compromises were approved, whose acceptance was also recommended to the Parliament, as well as a further amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, and nine compromises that were drafted with the corresponding amendments that remained pending from the Parliamentary Group. At the Commission's meeting, a majority voted in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group and the abstention of the rest of the parliamentary groups, the joint text of the report of the European Parliament, which included the amendments accepted and the compromised, with its consequent transformation into the Commission's opinion. The Commission's statement, which will be the subject of debate and vote at this plenary session together with the amendments made by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists, consists of a explanatory statement followed by one hundred and forty-nine articles distributed in eight titles. The first title regulates the administrative organisation and other subjects involved in the management of agroforestry land. The second title is related to the management of uses and the planning of agroforestry soils. The third title establishes the instruments for the mobilization of agroforestry land and develops the structure and operation of the Banco de Terras de Galicia and the Banco de Exploitations de Galicia. The fourth title sets out the procedures for the mobilization of agroforestry land. The fifth title sets out the instruments for the recovery of agroforestry land. The sixth title establishes the procedures for the recovery of agroforestry land. The seventh title sets out the instruments for the promotion and recovery of agricultural land. And finally, the eighth title sets out rules for control, inspections and sanctions. In its final part it incorporates seven additional provisions, nine transitional provisions, one single derogation provision and ten last layouts. It's all explained. Nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vega. We therefore begin with the debates. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to begin my speech by personally thanking the rest of the representatives of the groups in Phoenicia for the excellent atmosphere that reigned at the multiple working meetings and the facilities for reaching agreements that showed everyone we were there. I also want to extend this thanks to counsel Caride, who accompanied us with a lot of patients during our long meetings and gave us legal and procedural light in this process. For the Socialist Group this proposal is a very necessary legislative initiative, but it comes with many years of delay, in which the problems caused by the failure of a useful agricultural area, which directly affects the viability of our farms and the abandonment of our rural world. This proposal for a law entails a radical shift in the formulations that have so far been maintained by the governments of the People's Party, because of the multiple delays in territorial management regulations, which have also affected the lack of protection of agricultural land with regard to disordered urban uses, by the absence of initiatives on the improvement of the structures of the land, by the blockade and development of laws which at the moment made the Government of Laxe, as was the Law on Common Neighborhood Mountains, and the Government of Turin, as is the Law of the Bank of Lands, and by rejecting the multiple proposals submitted by the Socialist Group from the first legislation on Fraga governments over the Bank of Lands, on the management and concentration of agricultural land, over the Exploitation Bank, in discussions in which the People's Party has never accepted any kind of land use management, which they are now willing to do. And because of the delays and the lack of priorities in the work of partial concentration, because there are only about 450,000 hectares with partial concentration, which has been a third of what I should have done right now. A rate of work under the 8.500 acres per year, which is below those reached in the beginning of these processes from the 1960s to the 1990s. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I want to ask them to stop using the formula of a supposed bill by the People's Party to bring what is actually a Government bill to pass new legislative texts. A methodology that you're using too often. It is incomprehensible that they should do so by trying to shorten deadlines and by avoiding the preliminary reports of the Economic and Social Council, the report of the Agrarian Council, the report of the Forest Council, the report of the Legal Counsel of the Legislative Development Office. The form proposed by the PP to process the Land Recovery Act as a document of its own and not as a bill of law of the Government of Greece represents a decrease in the democratic guarantees of the legislative process, but, essentially, of the possibilities of social participation and of the technical and scientific rigor of the processes of public intervention, since not only legal reports and social participation bodies, but also restrictions the possibilities of sectoral and citizen debate on an essential topic for Galicia. In that sense, I would like to thank the work of the agricultural organizations of Galicia, such as the Agricultural Unions and the Galician Labour Union, or professional entities, such as the Montes and Forest Engineers' Schools, the Association of Agricultural Engineers, the Madeira Chain or the Galician Ecological Federation, whose contributions they made to improve this law and which we had to introduce as amendments because of this way of processing the law, which gave them no other capacity to do so. From the People's Party they present a bill without accompanying a minimal impact study, without a previous assessment of the structural situation of the territorial structure of Galicia and without a cost-efficiency analysis of the proposed solutions. Everything is again entrusted to the supposed almost magical effects of the legislative framework, which we fear, as in the 2015 exercise, with Metaga can remain in nothing and will be succeeded by others in the obvious lack of budgetary political will to solve the problems of rural Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the essence of why we abstain today from our group. Because it's not just to write the instruments that can mobilize land in our country, it's to show that the People's Party, which has been unable to do so for many years, now has the will to do so and has no budgetary support, no material and personnel means to carry them out, no schedule of actions to have credibility. Besides, in a law where we should guarantee legal certainty, it's terrible that they try to avoid reports of previously stated entities. One of the issues that the greatest insecurity and controversy caused was what you used very much in 2009 when you spoke about the Bipartite Land Bank and shared in cookies all over Galicia, who said, "Do you want to run out of your farms? If PSOE and BNG govern, they can take your land and give it to others with the excuse that you don't work it out. Can you imagine if in the debate these days this bill was proposed by us or by the BNG? What would you say, gentlemen of the People's Party? Speaking of Bolshevik hordes with horns and tail that come to confiscate the properties of the Greeks and the Greeks. I take this moment to ask you to try to act with the same responsibility as we dealt with country issues, when in the Balearic Islands for temporary expropriation of the use of fifty-six large owners, to devote them to social rent, it was qualified by the People's Party, by its leader Pablo Casado, as a "chavista expropriation". Or in Valencia, with the law of 2018 on the garden, which was the object of appeal by its party to the Constitutional Court by confiscation and unconstitutional, for providing for temporary transfers of use without affecting property ownership, with justification and all legal guarantees and forced leases in the alleged breach of the social function of the property. In the bill that they initially presented, it was stated that the rustic or rural-core real estate of those who are unsure of their title would become the title of Agader within one month of the publication of an ad in the DOG. And not only the use and enjoyment, but the dominion and the title of the good; to the point where they could even sub-attain, permutate or establish real rights upon them at the five years of the attribution of the title. After the negotiation of the Phoenicia, this situation was changed at the initiative of our group with an increase of five to ten years for the attribution of the title of the property, which, after that time, will remain in the possession of the Agader, that is, the public administration, that can not change the title and that can only assign it to the municipalities for the uses contained in this law. A substantial change of what was intended at first, fulfilling the social use of the earth in disuse that we proposed from the Socialist Group. The reality is that Galicia has a serious problem with the abandonment of agricultural land and that during the last twelve years of government of Nuñez Feijóo, despite advertisements and advertising and calling it legislatures such as the "lexislature of rural", abandonment has grown significantly. These twelve years have become lost, as Galicia has lost 200 000 hectares of useful agricultural land, more than thirty-seven thousand agricultural holdings have been abandoned in the first decade of this century and in our country we have a useful agricultural area that only exceeds twenty percent of the territory. This is one of the lowest percentages in Spain and Europe, because in the rest of Spain and in countries like Germany and France it is over 40 percent. This percentage, in addition, tracks the future of our rurals and our agricultural and livestock activities, apart from causing problems for a Galician in the distribution of funds from the common agricultural policy. From our parliamentary group we understand that it is necessary to put in place mechanisms and instruments to mobilize agricultural land and to fight against abandonment. But by many laws that we write we will hardly achieve anything without the necessary budgetary commitment that needs its put into operation. So from the Socialist Group we have been missing from the very beginning that this proposal was not a bill that had a budget accompaniment that makes it credible. Because, for example, it is very good that the instrument of partial mergers exists and that its application is regulated, but it is hardly worth anything without the political decision and the funding needed to carry it out. I say this because today we continue with too many paralyzed concentrations and many parishes and places in our municipalities that continue to wait for the possibility that they will develop in their territory. It's hard to understand the advertising and the candy and plate that make this new law or the advertising that they make of model villages when they paralyze and abandon the partial mergers for many years and throw the money in windows like the Gaiás de Sergude, who consume millions of euros from our budget. We can write laws, but another thing is that the content of those laws will soon come to light. And I'm sorry to tell you, gentlemen of the People's Party, that your credibility in this sense is minimal. When we look at our eyes that really act against the abandonment of land, we'll have no problem giving them the magic, but at the moment we'll have to wait to see if this document is useful or, once again, a wet paper for you. That's why we're asking for control and follow-up systems. To see the development of this law we have introduced amendments in this sense, with transactions that we will adopt today so that the Galician Rural Development Agency will draw up an annual action plan for agricultural recovery actions, including targets, budgeting, human resources, collaborative entities and forecasting results. This report, which will be published on Agader's website, will include at least the actions of the Galician Land Bank and the Exploitation Bank, as well as the development of the land management and recovery instruments regulated by this law. Agader should regularly submit an assessment report to the Agriforest Land Management Board, the follow-up commission and the Galician Parliament on the actions carried out on agricultural recovery. More will be established within one year from the entry into force of this law and by decree of the Council of the Union the commission to evaluate and follow up the Law on the Recovery of Land of Galicia. This is a commission that will have a plural composition and will have the presence of experts on the subject from university, academic and professional schools related to the sector, which will analyse the actions carried out by Agader in the field of land recovery, will know the economic and financial management control reports issued by external and internal control bodies, and will propose the strategies aimed at correcting the deficiencies observed in the analysis of the personal, material and budgetary resources that the Autonomic Administration must bear for the achievement of the objectives of this law, as well as its multi-annual scenario. The Socialist Party has tabled some 200 amendments to this law. Among the accepted, negotiated or subsumed are more than one hundred ten amendments that become part of this new law. Some of them -- as I was commenting -- about the control system or the follow-up of the law, or changes in property investigation. But also issues such as that it was not only Agader who was in charge of developing this law, but also the comarcasal agricultural offices and the forest districts, or the inclusion of a new instrument that did not exist in the original bill and which was added to those already known as the Land Bank, the Exploitation Bank, agroforestry polygons or model villages. I want to thank the People's Party for incorporating our party's proposal to create the agrarian spaces of experimentation. An instrument that is set up as spaces for the formation and experimentation of agricultural activities, where young people or entrepreneurs can receive training and test their business model in a favourable environment that promotes innovation and facilitates their gradual incorporation into the agricultural sector, as well as the transfer of knowledge, with the aim of facilitating progressive processes of new incorporations, particularly young people, in the agricultural sector through the following actions: the promotion of new models of generational relevance in the agricultural field with the proportion of physical space, tools and infrastructure needed to initiate new and innovative projects; the promotion of new models of training, counselling and knowledge transfer; the provision of spaces for testing new ideas and projects prior to their effective integration into the market and the assessment of their technical and economic viability; and the promotion of bioeconomics to circulate in short-market chains and agro-ecological models. It is another example of our contribution to this law, which can be an opportunity for the Greek field if to put it into effect if you put an appropriate budget to mobilize land, whether or not you are destined for Next Generation funds for this purpose. That is, if the Galician Board is prepared to set up the Council's own funds for its development, if there is an appropriate organizational chart to enable the instruments to be developed both in Agader itself and in the agricultural offices and forest districts, and if there is a schedule of actions, especially before the implementation and functioning of the catalogue and the map of uses, having as priority actions in the field of agricultural recovery, rather than other activities. There is also something that has been manifest all the time in the debate of the Phoenician Party and that the People's Party must prioritize in the execution of this law: to fight against abandonment and the inability to compete that have our exploits, in a community that we have a lot of abandoned land and we have to import a lot of forage across the Atlantic. What we're not going to support in any way, and we've stopped manifesting it on more occasions, is that erratic moratorium of the eucalyptus, which the only thing that's generating in our mountain is insecurity. A lamentable intervention in a market like that of wood, with a brutal fall in prices that our producers receive because of a wrong decision, and an uncontrolled planting of this species that is already collecting more and more the means, which will enhance the monoculture that exists in some unfortunately forest districts. It's the difference between citizens and others because of the simple fact of being one place or another, when this is only solved with planning and control, as we've often suggested, and you don't want to be regular. They believe the multifunctionality of the mountain, Mr. Counsellor, and equity in the dealings between the different districts. The solution of the mountain is that: planning, control and equity. That's the solution, not the moratoriums. The mountain must be valued, the mountain must yield productivity and the mountain must also have its social and environmental activity. If we go that way, we'll succeed and we'll really get to have a lot of productive and economically most developed rural society. On that path they will find us, in the path of improvisation and erratic decisions, not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u6	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning. I confess I have seen a rural of trees and gesta, of rye bread, of perennial mourning cloth and of straw bread, of singing cars and rolling mills, of meshes with handles and hammer with motor of a piston, and of scarce strawberries, of hooves and mud, of masters and servants. And it was as exciting as anyone who said that rural had a laughing stock, that it fed so many and so many people. That land used up to the small surface square produced the surpluses of hunger for servants, landlords and cassiers; surpluses that the owners sold while they looked from the vacation corridors. He said so to the song: "Now that the scroll comes, / joy to the gentlemen, / that they walk from room to room / to look at the farmers." That decimonic rural that used up to the 70s the Roman plow and the cattle car, that rural that was immobilized in time by the national Franco-Catholicism, begins to dissipate by walking that sixty-seventy. And the wooden blow to the back or pallet and brick it and the agrarian and the cattle it get in a supreme effort to buy the place and pass from two or three cows at ten on one open and close of eyes, and from the mouth to the free or fixed stable, with rooms of mud and cold tanks, and the milk to sixty pesetas. And light enters the kitchens of the fireplace, and the running water comes up and there is a bathroom, and the roof makes the cold of the banks and the tiles or the slates discovered. And the fruit and the meat and the fish by the doors, and the iodine salt change the faces of children and girls giving them healthier aspects. In 1992 progress and regression began. Carlos del Alamo subsidizes eucalyptus plantations also in agricultural lands; it is paid for the destruction of ancestral wealth. And at the same time, dairy quotas are beginning to set obstacles to production and run a maximum demolition in rural areas: only the big ones can be saved. How little joy in the poor's house lasts! And the money that comes from Europe is invested in this way, and the crazy cows discover the doughs and crumbs. It's all covered with money that way. And they start closing farms. And with that measure, the closing, the growing eucalyptus, also the toxus, the gesture and the carcass, and the governments are not up to the height, and the fires and the transvade of population towards the Atlantic axis. "God, so much effort to give up! - So hopeless and so lambish!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And starting this millennium, the fire gives a warning in 2006, too much chaos and too much eucalyptus. And pass the Fire Law. From the middle of the countryside it is called the struggle against this decline and the feeling of defeat, and the need to mobilize abandoned agricultural assets becomes visible. And it approves the Land Bank Law to be able to cope with the modernization of rural Galician. And they return the ready ones, those of the big business, those who don't believe in the social function of the economy, those who don't believe in the potential of this land and this people, those who defend the old masters, now holders of investment funds and productive capital. You can't tolerate Bolshevism, and they move all the machinery in the friendly press and it's not in it either. The money under the table pays everything. "One step forward and another step back, Galicia, / i the fabric of your dreams does not move. - Hope in your eyes flashes. - Aran the woods and rain." And again, silence, inactivity and chaos are decreed. And who won? Take a look at the 1992 Forest Plan and the 2016 review approved last month. The figures sing and the intentions and the facts that have been spent give light to this incognita. It wins in chaos. I know it's our destiny to find paper money for Europe to clean up...! The last indolence, the last period of incompetence began in 2009, and still lasts. The problems are there in all their cruelty; it's silence, let it do by politics. Because if they wanted to, they had the Land Bank Law, modified yes, but still helpful. But no, to see if they're going and they leave everything for four bitches and forage. But indolence is not enough. Today's businesses demand action. And we believe in the multifunctional mount and in the sossibility and bio-economics, and we launch statements of wisdom that don't shut up where they ought to be. Because practical is what's cool. And practical is another model that also uses those words, but as a justification, like the carauta that aims to put a smile where there's only ridicule. Because this bill that we are discussing today deals with this, the continuity of the forestry project started in 1992. The moratorium is a curtain of smoke to divert attention. Thirty-eight wild models of voluntary accession and the lifting of the ban on nitens in the east of Galicia and the planting frenzy. Plants are being stolen at night in recent plantations. Never seen it! In total, ten or twelve years from now, when the saturation of the market occurs, we'll look at how to blame the collapse of prices on extremists and red separatists. Let the eucalyptus take us away, that there are the BNGs and more the ecologists looking for us ruin! [[Applause]] And so, in the Paladin Roman used by the masters since the night of time, we're already preparing the next election campaign. Not a rare opportunity in modern times. The territory in the colonial business, in the brutal extraction of our resources, in the Third Worldist model that no one in Europe wants. We made an offer, amendment 105, and we proposed to them a rule that would cover the management of the masses of eucalyptus, which would enter into force immediately after the moratorium was finished. A law on the management of eucalyptus plantations which, inter alia, involves the removal of eucalyptus masses from agricultural areas, environmental protection zones and coastal forests; the removal of eucalyptus from mixed forest masses; that in areas where eucalyptus may be planted should be ordered, managed and devoting part of the surface to producing quality wood with various applications. It was studied, but it's different moratoriums. And see that our proposal was already tightening our hearts! But no. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 1 of the BNG to Article 1 of the amendment: replace the final paragraph, which says: "...in order to ensure the sustainability of the agroforestry sector, as well as to achieve the general objectives set out in Article 2", by the following text we propose: "...in order to seek the appreciation of the agricultural territory and the reorientation of agricultural production systems to make them less dependent on external inputs, acting preferably in the recovery, mobilization and value of the useful agricultural area, as well as the achievement of the others." This is language clarity and check what the object of this law should be. Because the problem of rural areas and their depopulation is the abandonment of activity by two generations of farmers, two generations long, and by the underutilization of their agricultural resources. Depending on the outside of food resources is increasing. This law should therefore mobilize the agricultural area to improve the territorial base of active holdings, establish the population where there is abandonment, facilitate the management of the territory, activate food sovereignty with sufficient quality food for the population of the country in general, gradually eliminate the dependence of exogenous inputs and foods loaded with fossil fuels and often dubious health guarantees. That's what BNG wanted in Phoenicia: a priority law for the country. A law that served as the main support for a joint government action, with the participation of other councils. A government action competently planned and guided by an integral development and management plan of the territory. A productive rural in food and essential products, with transformation included to ensure added value. Turning back to what is specifically called "empty Galicia", and we call "sadness and loneliness." And in that necessary government action for the country, the most valuable asset is the land that has a greater attitude toward farming or livestock for food production. This necessary action by the government, which will have to return to the man's dialogue with the territory and resettle family farms on foot in direct management, in small transformation, in well-sized exploitation according to the activity to be carried out. Because if you don't, this desert territory ends up eating us. Remember that on our roofs the grass is born. For the PP, the emergency is in the growing demands of the forest sectors, which are the ones that mark the priorities of the council, taking into account the interests and businesses that go beyond the reasonable. And so this law enters the bag into the Mountain Law by suppressing and reforming those articles and paragraphs that are curiously guaranteeing the agricultural use of the earth, with attitudes for such use, leaving it unprotected for its possible forestry. Our amendment 75 intended to prevent, among other things, that reform of the Mountain Law, and it was not taken into consideration. Because we didn't put any objection to the forest polygons or the firewalls. In their time, in the Land Bank Act, we conceived the joint forest management units, the Uxfors, which were so disturbing to them. Of course, there was a solution not only to enhance the small properties of the mountain; it was also the figure to order the territory, to make a possible, participatory mountain, to end chaos. We are not against the mountain, neither are we against reasonable forestry, nor are we against forestry. It's just that we don't regard it as a priority nor the rural economic development engine, because it's about this, a forestry law, because it's going to mobilize preforestal land as a matter of priority. What are these very serious accusations we're making? Yes, but the most serious thing is what hides this law. In the text of this proposal there is no reference to the repositioning of legality in illegally forested agricultural lands; these are thousands of hectares. We already know how difficult it is to dissipate. Because, on the one hand, they encouraged and convinced that the best performance to make the future was eucalyptus plantation, and even less of the pine. And they mount up in anger when this crop is questioned, and they take out the Ence and more the eighty-three thousand families who still live from the eucalyptus, and Feijóo said it was the complement of pensions. By the way, are they just looking at a pensioner's rural? [[Applause]] Look: if reasoning is economic or forestry, it has a cut-off value of about two hundred million euros a year, but it is EUR 4 billion a month to import food to compensate for the unproductiveness of our farm. The business they're proposing to us is ruinous. Not to mention the millions that carry us the fire for not ordering, for not respecting the fringes of security, for the perversion of the original mosaic. They must understand that since BNG we have a reasonable mistrust, because it was you who put the cry in the sky when the Land Bank Law, when the Uxfors, and they called us everything, played dirty and cheated. And now they want us to believe in the miracle of Saul. Saul's one happens in the Bible; that book where with a magic stick you can open paths in the sea. Well, we don't believe it. We don't believe because they didn't present economic and organizational memory; because it's not a government law supported by their party; because shortly after the text was presented -- let's say -- in society they presented one hundred thirty and one amendment; because the proposal doesn't emerge from a previous social and sectoral debate, the posteriori walked it but with a great deal of haste; because they didn't admit the so-called "hearsal of hearing" to enrich it in the Pôncia and the text of the law. Why are you in such a hurry? So it's a well-founded mistrust, and despite it, the BNG has been there. We are here negotiating, contributing and debating because we believe that the times are coming and we are ready and willing to be government. "They'll bring the roads one day / the people they've led. God is the same. / Soccer goes, juice comes, Jesus Mary!, / and all the thing will pay for his scrap." I would like to highlight the pleasant and dialogue of all the members of the European Parliament in the debates and negotiations to improve the text of this law, including Mr Caride, of course. We believe the original text has been improved. But for us it has been and is insufficient, and I think it has been explained enough. This is a law that we have seen since nationalism on its necessary day and continue to consider essential. They are not times of productive adventures and themselves of support and measures that mobilize the agricultural and livestock land, giving modern sustainability to economic activity, respecting the environment and promoting biodiversity, looking for healthy food and products with health guarantees, recovering and sitting population to recover population to prevent rural becoming an olive-green desert that calls every year by the Bible plague of the fire. That threat is getting more and more real and more difficult to conjure! We announce our negative vote. "Dissolving the meadows as sleep, / Time goes from Parga to Pastoralship. - It's going to be buried, juice juice, autumn. - One step forward and another step back, Galicia!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u8	Thank you, Mr. Cruz Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u9	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies. I also want my first words of thanks, first of all, to the services of the House and in particular to Mr. Caride, who, of course, with his absolute availability and with his immense wisdom has greatly facilitated the work that we have seen today to put to the vote here in this chamber. Of course, my thanks to the group's colleagues, the group's workers, those people who are sometimes in a background and who always warn us, warn us that everything will go well, and allow me, in addition, that in this case, to quote Carmen, always hardworking and concerned about our work going well. My fellow Members of the Commission, especially Mr Armada. I think we've shared a lot of things, because we've come from two small councils and we're that generation that probably giving up future better professionals has bet on working in their municipalities, with a project for their municipalities, and that lives in rural areas. I often hear opinions from people, because it's very easy, perhaps, from a floor in the center of any city, and I think there's a lot of sensitivity there. I could check it out too today. And also to the comrades, both Mr. Rivas and Mr. Seco, who, although today too in the debate, at least in the forms, were more conciliators, undoubtedly in Phoenicia were much more. I remember what I've said on one occasion, because without atrial or microphone, they're much more charming, and they seem to be able to put away what separates us. I believe that Galicia today writes an important page in its history or opens a page. Above, in the enunciation, we write an instrument, which is the Law of Recovery of Land. The Commission was set up on 15 March. And -- what the fellows said -- from that time on, we had up to ten long P.P. meetings, with great effort to reach agreements, although today if we heard some force it seemed to be useless. Two hundred and seventy-nine amendments have been incorporated. I think that's a mathematical data to be able to confirm that it's a law for everyone, though -- I insist -- after listening to the comrades, it seems to be a little less. Of the two hundred and seventy-nine amendments, the one hundred and thirty-seven of the group I represent, and one hundred and seventeen of the Socialist Party, of which almost fifty percent, almost one of the two amendments has been negotiated, incorporated. And in the case of the Galician Nationalist Block, thirty-seven percent practically, because it was about thirty-two percent, but four amendments were removed, and it remained to be believed that in a frankly important percentage. All the fellows defined it as a necessary law, and I also define it on many occasions as a brave law. Collect a general framework for land management, land management for livestock and forest use. Its use management seeks its recovery, trying to anticipate us to fight forest fires and work on setting population in our rural world and improving its quality of life. It was born of a consensus of the conclusions of the Ditam of the Parliamentary Forestry Commission. And he comes to complete or develop the current policy framework, culminating in that path that began the known Metaga Law, with that commitment to continue betting on the partial concentrations, which so much development have brought to our rural likewise. It has a goal: to produce abandoned or underutilized land with fully voluntary instruments, based on leases, transfers or transmissions of ownership of plots, or joint management formulas. It creates innovative figures: agroforestry polygons, model villages and joint groupings, promoting new activity to that land or providing a greater dimension for those farms to be more sustainable, and even contributing -- which I think is very important -- an economic benefit for their lease. In this policy instrument, something is also very important, which is the application of tax incentives to measures to promote its value-added position. It's important to go listing what this instrument collects, especially so that some are clear to what they're opposing. The reinforcement of the Land Bank is always based on volunteering. We locate an abandoned building and its owner -- if we have it located and if it exists -- can recover the land, can access its use or can incorporate it into the Land Bank. Three options. Only if none of them are worth it will the Galician Rural Development Agency be able to issue a resolution declaring it abandoned. And here we remember the amendments that improved Article 14.34, where they strengthened and clarified the competences of that instrument of the Land Bank, so cited here today. This regulatory tool also allows you to update the catastrophe. Something very important that people keep in mind that some group is opposing here today, which is an absolutely intense demand in our rural areas. And I believe that with that notification of the results of the property investigation that will be done by the Ministry of the Farming Union, it will make it possible to correct many shortcomings. We recover or exercise the powers of investigation. Galicia, do we oppose that? It's hard to understand some force, isn't it? After that research faculty and it's been ten years during which the owner appears, he won't have to go to a court trial, he'll recover his building. Besides, he would be given the yields if that temple had been rented during this time. There's a very important message to youth, and I want to thank the Socialist Party's contributions in that way. The figure in the Exploitation Bank and in Article 38 -- already announced in the milk strategy, I think it's very important -- you have to guarantee and promote the continuity of profitable productive units that have no relief. It has also been enriched by the contribution of the contributors, and I also want to extend thanks to agricultural organizations, to professional schools. Many of his approaches were taken into account; that is, they were heard, which is absolutely essential to succeed with this law. From the work of Phoenician I tried to list the most important, but I would also like to highlight the consensus on the regulation of polygons, to facilitate their application in those territories where there is no marked abandonment. And I want to pretend in this idea and in this proposal, very defended by the Galego Nationalist Block, which after listening to Mr. Rivas' intervention, which seems to return to Galicia... I always tell him that he's in Galicia -- before I told him -- about the cows by the rope, and the other day -- how he doesn't like to repeat it -- put another example of the four peaceful sheep -- because it matters to me the same. I want to see that Galicia of the more than ten holdings of the Devesa, which rise from a hundred heads each, as I can quote two: the Alambrero glovery or the Fondón glovery. I can quote Galicia da Pastoriza, with a SAT that recently sent us an absolutely technological and innovative video, such as SAT Lodos and Pérez, or, by quoting some of my county, the Neifra gain. That's our Galicia, that's Galicia where we live, that's Galicia that's going to take advantage of this instrument. [[Applause]] I also want to explain something important: the inclusion of the peculiarities of the neighboring mountains in common hand and of the mountain range in the recovery instruments through the Monte Service report. That's also what some political force will vote against. I think about it: did you really find any normative instrument until the date it has included an instrument of control and control? Is there any greater commitment than that? Is there any better desire not to hide anything and hold your hand in order to build a better Galicia? I recognize that BNG doesn't like it. Because after the placard that made Mr. Rivas pass, I recognize that today someone may not even be able to sleep quietly. But the truth is, all these instruments are absolutely innovative, very committed to our rural environment. And I think in my speech the greatest exercise of loyalty with Galicia is to explain that if you're voting here today, and to say that this regulatory instrument carries a control and control mechanism. That message to youth, Mr. Seco said: these agrarian spaces of experimentation calling for innovation, calling for incorporation into our rural areas, which will undoubtedly be able to fix population. The inclusion of the concept of abandonment prevention, which has been included in repeated articles before requests from opposition groups as well, so that no doubt remained. I would also like to read article 2, because in some cases I heard that the targets are unclear. It's a good thing there's no worse deaf than what you don't want to hear, or blind than you don't want to see. But Article 2, which regulates the general objectives of this law, clearly states: "Provision of tools aimed at reaching a useful agricultural area close to national and European measures, seeking that land suitable for the cultivation of agricultural products is the priority object of recovery for the said agricultural use." I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a new stage begins and, no doubt, the most important thing will be from tomorrow onwards and from what these instruments that are created today begin to apply. We are undoubtedly starting from different political projects, but what is also indisputable is that we are starting from the same reality, and our reality is Galicia. Almost that political group that wanted to desecrate this instrument and associate it with a forestry mechanism is that the political group that, for the fifteen minutes, has spent almost twelve minutes talking about the forest theme in a law where practically -- I insist -- if you don't want to understand why you don't understand it. But that last third provision was explained in detail, and must always be interpreted with the first transitional provision. It was provided with graphic and real documentation without any real lack. Even -- if I'm honest with you -- until you seem to be convinced. And I'm also going to tell you one thing: I even think you were convinced, because, in fact, in the Commission you abstained. What happens is that when they criticize us and say, it's just that the knee has passed. Home!, accepting 200 seventy-nine amendments here in this law, of course, cannot be said. It's because they're missing the truth, and when you go to ten meetings -- I insist: those of Phoenicia, because outside the Phoenicia there were even a few more -- with documentation and building bridges, you can't even walk on the subject of consensus. What is it -- that Mr. Rivas repeated it many times in his exhibition, and there he didn't miss the truth -- he said he was always going one step forward and two backwards. Then one day it seemed that this law liked her, and the next day she came looking for what she couldn't support her. That's the least important thing. What we want today to move to the Greeks and to the Greeks is that with this instrument in places where there is an important agricultural and forestry activity they will be able to have a mechanism that orders the soil, without excluding anyone. There is soil for livestock use, for agricultural use and for forest use. We also want to send a message to our pensioners: they are also represented in the political party I represent. Those people, no doubt, will also have in this instrument mechanisms that allow them to achieve greater profitability than with so much effort those generations that worked so hard for them. [[Applause]] And I always say it with that sensitivity of coming from a humble family who knows what it's like to have a ferret. I don't know why Mr. Rivas associates me with multinationals. I'm telling you with that sensitivity and I'm also telling you because the party I represent, the group I represent, the group that brought the law in this case, there's nothing to limit the activity of parliamentary groups, Mr Seco. That doesn't have to be a problem, it's to put your work in place, it's to value the work of all forces and groups to build an instrument that undoubtedly registered it by the People's Party, the Group of the People's Party. [[Applause]] But it's a tool of everyone and I think I tried mathematically to prove it. And, Counselor, you have a great responsibility that I will stress to you on the second round of words. But that same responsibility we all have, and particularly the political parties who are not the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. So I pray you are still in time not to vote against an instrument where -- I insist -- a great effort has been made on this side of this group to prove to the Greeks and to the Greeks that it is an instrument of all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The turn of parliamentary groups to define each other's amendments. [[Pause.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u11	Thank you, President. A question that attracts my attention: don't I know we have to celebrate? It really gives the feeling that when we talked about this law -- and I was saying this in my first intervention, when I was saying that success simply looks like the adoption of a law, not that it can be done with that law -- you know today that Galicia has lost more than two hundred and fifty thousand hectares of useful agricultural surface, that they have abandoned more than thirty-seven thousand farms, that there are already more than two thousand abandoned nuclei, that there are more than ten thousand villages with less than ten neighbors... and I don't know if you're celebrating this, but that's the reality of today. [[Applause]] And I'm really worried about it, because it's very good that new instruments are put into operation and that the law addresses issues that we've been dealing with since the opposition and in other years, asking on numerous occasions to be put into action. But there were already mechanisms for using abandoned land, said the BNG spokesman. The Land Bank Act existed at the time of the Bipartite and then remained in the change that you made, and they haven't drawn up anything at all, they haven't used anything at all, they don't use the partial concentration. They brush with model villages, which are small examples that are good, but they don't stop being a needle in a straw. So I don't know what to celebrate. We will celebrate the day that there is a data that says Galicia, which has no more than twenty percent of the useful agricultural surface, reaches forty percent that they have in the rest of Europe and in the rest of Spain. I think that day is when we're going to have to celebrate something. Today, what we have to celebrate alone and exclusively is to see if the People's Party will be able to use this law for something more than to put in the press and say they're doing something; that's reality. Because the feeling that it gives -- and it happened to Metaga, to the Law of Particulate Concentration -- is that you absolutely trust a text that then, by magic effect, will actually become a fact of land mobilization. But it's not true. The reality is that when there's an appropriate budget to mobilize land and there's a linked council that has the political motivation to actually make that land mobilization, because they're going to say the data if we're really about to celebrate something. I don't think we're celebrating anything today. We are precisely to worry about the number of farms that have to close on our land and the number of farms that do not have the ability to use land, and then have to come to import forage from the other side of the Atlantic. I think that's the reality. So, from our group, we are going to abstain in a law that we believe is necessary and which may be useful, but which does not have sufficient assurance, because it is not a bill, because it is not accompanied by a budget forecast, to know how the land will be mobilized by the staff that exists in the Galician Union, because today Agader has no capacity to make good use of these instruments. So we'll see if the People's Party from the Government really changes its attitude these 12 years and actually uses the tools it has to mobilize land. At that moment, we'll applaud and come here to value what the Council does. And I repeat again the importance and necessity that said the BNG spokesman, and I hope so and it was included within the law, but we will see if this law is really used above all for what it puts in its title, which is the improvement, the fight against the abandonment of useful land. I mean, to use land for our farm and livestock farms, which have a lot of need for that land, and not for other kinds of purposes that can be used and that are not priority. It's good that we also focus on acting on our mountain, but the main thing and what we should all make up is precisely equipping ourselves with our holdings of that agrarian land that they need so much. And I'm going back to the subject of the eucalyptus and the subject of the moratorium, because you say that we want to raise the topic of afforestation. No, it was you. In a law that didn't have to talk about afforestation, you, with the Forest Plan at the last moment, take out a moratorium and talk about this law on a subject you shouldn't be talking about right now, which is the topic of afforestation. You were the ones who put that moratorium and put the focus precisely on that subject. And I repeat again that the problem is not in the moratorium, the problem is that you don't plan. You give the feeling that you want to link the problem again as other groups do on the subject of eucalyptus, and the problem is in abandonment. The mountain has a problem of abandonment, a problem of planning, a problem of inability to control what is planted, an inability to put into operation a multifunctionality of the mountain that you are incapable of. They have three Galicians and each one has a different situation: in one the monoculture takes place, in the other they don't let themselves plant anything at all and it's tox and it's abandoned, and an inner fringe that is in a situation of continuous conflict. And until you plan that and actually put a multifunctional system into operation, you won't get solutions on a mountain that needs a lot of our administration and then, of course, you need to close cycles, which is one of the basic issues in order to really benefit our community as Galicia is. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u12	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Candia, stop playing with what I believe or don't believe. What I believe and my position have always been the same: to defend this country, to defend the rural we believe in the BNG. And the rural we believe in at the BNG is absolutely opposed to what you practice. We hoped that the priority of mobility and the intention and scope of this law would be clarified. We've been confirmed that it's not going that way. It doesn't go there because it doesn't have budget, it doesn't go there because it doesn't have any memory, it doesn't go there because its intentions weren't that. The mistrust arose from the contempt that you expressed from 2009 until today by the Land Bank Law, because they had the instrument in their hands to mobilize lands, they had the instrument in their hands to address the underlying problem of land operations in this country. And you know me now that modern Galicia is that of decent farms, that I don't know how many cows. Well, no, because that Galicia can't be settled faithfully in the territory, because 100 cows don't go for a walk, they can't be easily pacified. Because a hundred cows don't have room in many farms, they don't have space around the farm to be able to drive their asses -- that's what I said in the Commission --. So modernity is not in technology; modernity in Galicia is in incardinating with the earth, with the possibilities that the earth and our territory with its singular configuration gives. That's modernity. Modernity is to protect and encourage these farms, family farms, which have not appeared here for anything. Bantegal went into silence. They reformed the Bantegal Law, but they sank into silence. And the Uxfors, they sucked the Uxfors -- with forgiveness of the word, which is in the dictionary and also with all the relevance --, they spoiled the Uxfors. How many Uxfors have started working since 2009? This is a subject that we work on Commission 7th enough. They won't understand. I know they won't understand. They're going to use it as a daring weapon, because that's what they always do; that's to say, you're the magicians of propaganda, because they also have the means, they pay the media. They won't understand. When you tell me, we objected to that dictate because the lines knew where they were going, not because we disagreed with the hundreds and peak recommendations. If not, because we knew -- and we saw -- that the dictatorship gave birth to the Forest Plan, and we all saw that the Forest Plan concocted the legality of 1992. And get off with that base, that is, here's "the fact, the done, and the skins to the sea." That you always start from this day forward, you never look back. But it's necessary to look back to know where we're going and to know how much wood we can get. So it's a legal pleasure to have an anomalous situation. Time will tell us all and put everyone in their place. We distrust a law that had to be the government and is a political group; a law that has no budget, a law that leaves everything to volunteerism. Volunteerism was there. The people who wanted to pull out looked for a way of permuting and looking for life, because it's expected by the partial concentration it's on. I mean, you have to move your projects to your grandchildren, if you want, if you haven't been expelled from the field before. Believe me, I'd feel good if we were shown that this ambiguous language that leads to law would be able to take care of the agricultural sector. But look -- we always say it and we'll keep saying it -- the rural environment of this country is not a joke -- with forgiveness of the word -- ; the rural environment of this country needs an integral project of several advisors, it needs a superhuman effort from this government. Why? Because the problem is fat, the problem is that you eat us. Or we spend all the budget of the Galician board to put out the fire, or the problem is that it eats us. Either you put orders in the woods, or you're going to eat them. You order, but do it. They could do it and they didn't. What do you expect? What do we think they're going to do now for a legal text? Let's hope so. Now, really, "heated cat, cold water running." And we and the country are very warm. The evidence has it in the country's confidence in you. Trust placed on a vote like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And all of you, ladies and gentlemen, you all know how elections take place in rural areas. [[Murmurs.]] Is that true? [[Murmurs.]] Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I'm not telling lies, I'm telling half-truths, because it doesn't look right democratically telling them all, does it? It doesn't look good. But we're old dogs and we know buses, and we know the votes in our pocket, and we know all that... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u14	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u15	...and we know him, we know what we're talking about, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u16	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u17	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Rivas, was this theater necessary? I don't think so. Our country doesn't deserve it, nor does it bring justice to the entire Commission's negotiation. [[Applause]] The identification of our political project with Galicia is a characteristic and it is achieved through the human reality of the country and interacting with people. You're not better than I am, nor knows rural than I am. You're here representing the Greeks as I represent them. And more than ever likely, since the short time I've been here, you've tried to be part of this project. Mr. Seco, I don't celebrate anything, I point out that Galicia can have an instrument to build a better rural, nothing more. With total humility you well know, that, moreover, we are not at the moment of any celebration. And, Mr. Rivas, I do not judge what you believe, because among other things it is impossible to know; that is part of your reality, of your intimacy. I think what you or you do, I know him well. I've told you on several occasions that I come from a county where your political force had the mayor and four concellers, and now you have one. I know you say that when you win, you have won democracy, when you win, you win, you're dumb. That's not how it is. The Greeks choose the People's Party because they feel represented in it. And a president and a government that reaches the absolute consecutive majority that has, at least, achieved, deserves absolute respect. This law makes a courageous decision to protect us from monoculture. And precisely that demagogy you've done by explaining with half truths, which I've already told you many times that in politics they're much more dangerous than lies, they've been more encouraging to plantations than to you the text of the law. [[Murmurs.]] You've given much more prominence to the forest issue, which is fair in law itself. You are constantly and reiterating the clear example that one thing I say and when it comes to doing the opposite. That's reality, and I'm sorry. I'm sorry because the instrument we achieved among all of us, with over 200 amendments, was a positive message to our rural community. I know that you say you don't have to look forward, that you have to look back. It feels good to me, you have to contextualize and you have to look forward and backward; what you have to get out is sometimes from the past. And you in this law have already told them on many occasions that they seem to have failed to overcome the loss of government at the time. But the government can't do that. You can't do the opposite of what they said. It is not possible to vote against instruments such as agrarian polygons, instruments such as the model village, instruments such as joint management groupings. We cannot vote against tax incentives to settle agricultural activity in our rural areas. It can't be done that way, without a doubt, to get the government back. I, at any rate, regretting that change of criterion in an absolutely unjustified way, and which, perhaps, I was unable to understand, of course, did not explain it very well; I don't know if I just didn't understand it or will have the same with the rest of Galicia. It's another chapter. I repeat today that I believe that we must emphasize that our rural and our agricultural, livestock and forestry activities will have more tools to continue to improve. I do believe that innovation enables us to have a better future. Is it late? Well, others say we came in a lot of haste. What about the People's Party group and...? I think it's a law of everyone. And, undoubtedly, by ending with something that everyone has said unanimously -- it's a necessary instrument, a great responsibility, and my thanks to all the people who worked in the presentations and also to my colleagues who preceded me in the use of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. Yes, Counselor of the Middle Rural.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u19	Could you make a closure?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u20	You have the right. You can do it from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u21	Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. President. I wanted to make an intervention of closure and gratitude to the three parliamentary groups that worked on the Commission for the testing of a law that I think -- as the spokesperson of the People's Party also said -- which is a law of all. And, in addition, a law that expresses the importance of Parliament, because it has done a very great job in Phoenicia. But this law already has reason to work earlier in Parliament, which was the Committee on Forest Fires of 2018. A commission that had one hundred and twenty-three recommendations. And a good part of those recommendations gave the starting point of what was then this bill that brought here, indeed, the People's Party, but -- as I say -- it was very busy. And she's been very busy since her beginning of parliamentary processing on January 12, because it was a bill that was explained -- it's also spoken here today -- to agricultural organizations, to producer associations, to professional schools that have to do with matter. Many of his contributions have been welcomed into amendments, of course, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group or the Nationalist Block. I would like to highlight, for example, the contribution made by the Galician Labour Union and the Agricultural Unions, in order to welcome the need for the law to ensure that Galicia's agricultural area reaches the national and European average. And I would like to express my thanks to the Agrarian Unions, for its importance in the sector, for the express support it has given to the text of the law. But I also want to thank you -- and I do it here and customize it in the voices -- to the three parliamentary groups the work that was done in Phoenicia. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, although today there has been a debate on this, it is true that they have enriched the law; they have done what all of us here understand that it is what parliamentaryism has to do, which is through debate, through dialogue, to improve a text that enters the beginning. It's true that it was a bill proposal, but it came out, obviously, much improved. By making some reference, Mr. Seco, I very much appreciate the impulse you have given to the reflection we have made on the research faculty. This is the law that gives you the powers of investigation and ownership of the vacant immovables at the Galician Junta, in front of the previous position, which was the central government, and we give it to the Galician Junta. And you have made us reflect on the need to pass these five to ten years of the ban on disposal if the owner appears -- because I think it's clear, after what you've seen here, that no one wants to stay with the land of anyone -- ; if that owner appears within these ten years, we give him back even the incomes that came from that property. Or the agrarian spaces of experimentation, which are going to be mechanisms that will allow young people to try their agrarian activity with a safety net, because we can get the facilities and we can help them with their income as well. Mr. Rivas, I would also like to thank you for the strength you have made in the agricultural and forestry polygons, which is true that we thought they would be mainly used by productive agents of small and medium-sized enterprises, but you have also made us see the need to make it clear that the owners themselves can develop their activity in those agricultural and forestry polygons. And it was also very important for the two opposition groups to put the need for follow-up mechanisms on the table. We're not afraid of any of those tracking mechanisms, and that's why we welcome them through transactions. And something paradigmatic and I think we have to put into value -- also said by the spokesperson of the People's Party -- : we have created an independent commission to control the enforcement of this law. I want to finish this thanks, of course, to the spokeswoman of the People's Party, Elena Candia. I want to tell you that the Rural Council team knew perfectly how this law was developed for the intense work that she moved us and always asking for transactions, agreements, to be able to consensualize everything that was worked out in this law with opposition groups. I here, as a representative in this case of executive power, as councillor of the Rural Environment, tell them that we have no more intention than to deal with this law. This law is a toolbox -- we have many of us told it -- that it has to help us all fight the abandonment of rural areas, it has to help us all fight the depopulation and face the demographic challenge. It has to help us make our territory more resistant to forest fires and more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. I'm done. We all have the same objective, because we have to regain the life of our rurals, of course, with profitable economic activity because everyone, I'm sure, wants people to live in rurals, but for that, people have to live in rurals as well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u22	Thank you, Counselor. Voting of the legislative text We shall vote on the amendments and the Ditame issued by Commission 7th, Agriculture, Food, Gland and Mountains on the Proposal for a Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. First of all, we are voting together on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendments maintained by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the text of the Ditame, issued by Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Gandaria and Montes, on the Proposal for a Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u23	We now vote together, too, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting of amendments by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to the Ditame text, issued by Commission 7th, Agriculture, Food, Gandaria and Montes, on the Proposal for a Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against,41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u24	We are now voting on the Commission's statement. We vote. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 7a, Agriculture, Food, Gandary and Mountains, on the Proposal for a Law on the Recovery of Galician Land. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 19; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u25	The Law on the Recovery of Galician Land is therefore approved. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The debate on this first point has ended and we continue with the second item on the agenda, which is that of appearances. Comparison of the Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the incidence of the pandemic in Galicia in relation to the epidemiological and care situation and the progress made in the Greek vaccination plan against covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u26	Whenever you want the Health Counsellor, you can make your appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u27	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. We're at a key point in terms of the pandemic and its management in our country. That's why I come back today, on my own request, to value and transfer the situation in Galicia and talk about the future that we have ahead of us with regard to the evolution, in this case, of the coronavirus and, in general, of the health of our community. As for the evolution of the pandemic, as for the incidence figures, we're in a situation similar to that I moved to in mid-April, because we're continuing with stable evolution as far as the global pandemic figures are concerned. The efforts made in Galicia demonstrate the effectiveness of the model employed so far, which we intend to maintain to the extent that the deterioration of the alarm state allows. That's precisely why it's even more important to make this call to the prudence I was making a month ago, since compliance with the measures is more necessary than ever. Galicia continues to be a privileged territory thanks to the efforts of all, especially the citizens and those who saw or saw reduced the hours of operation of their business. At this point of inflexion that marks us the disappearance of the alarm state, from the Galician Union we will continue to trust the criteria of the Clinical Committee along with the epidemiologists of the Directorate-General for Public Health to continue to establish surgical measures in those municipalities where the situation is complicated -- right now, those five municipalities are in maximum restrictions -- and also to determine, where possible, more relaxed measures, once the percentage of the vaccinated population increases and further reduces the data of new contagions. So again, my thanks to all those excellent professionals who help us make decisions, with the only objective of continuing to protect us. The current incidence data accumulated 14 days continue to represent half the value in the state; our incidence is now 93.42, compared to 188.97 of the average of the Spanish State. And also in the incidence 7, which -- as you know -- we use as a reference to advance the restrictions, even now Galicia is at 46.12, being the Spanish average of 80.38. We are therefore one of the least inclusive peninsula communities, both fourteen and seven days. But we have to be careful, and although, logically, we cannot disregard the data, maximum when positive, we have to deal with them with reservations and preserve the call for compliance, because these data are not only numbers but they are translated into hospitalizations and, unfortunately, in some cases deceased. In addition to restrictions and compliance by the citizenship, to cut the transmission chain of the virus are essential for the seizures and follow-up of contacts. In the last week, with the data recorded in the Ministry's statistics, in Galicia we carried out more than sixty-five thousand diagnostic tests, and we must bear in mind that this data, although we have already formally requested it, did not include all the saliva CRP tests that are done in our community, for example, the one hundred and eighty-eight thousand that we have carried out in our mobile units, nor did we do it through the collaboration of the pharmaceutical schools, in this case of Pontevedra and the Coruña, and that continue to have an important reception by the citizen. Galicia has been along the pandemic and is still one of the communities that most diagnostic tests carry out, even overcoming autonomous communities with the largest population and keeping ourselves very above the Spanish average. In Galicia we now have an average of 2,409 diagnostic tests per 100,000 inhabitants, in the last week, and the Spanish average is 1,733. We're only overcome in this case by Navarre and the Basque Country, which -- as you know -- are clearly different from our epidemiological situation. And we were the first in trials processed on the last day that accounts for the ministry, with 411 diagnostic tests per 100,000 inhabitants. Thanks to the fact that we've always been able to increase our diagnostic capacity by putting in operation the curvature, the school suite, or also the pooling system. By giving them a data, in this pooling saliva in the pharmacy offices across Galicia we have recorded more than 30,000 evidence and 157 positives. Last week, we carried out people in the municipalities with greater incidence or with grotesqueness, as was the case of the Coruña, Laracha, Padrón, Ames, Laza, Ourense, Barro, Vilanova and Vilagarcia de Arousa. This week we have also initially planned for the realization of prawns in the municipalities of Betanzos, La Coruña, Cambados, Cerdedo-Cotobade and Cuntis, in addition to continuing with them in the pharmacies. As you see, even though in Galicia we could have lowered the number of tests, since our incidence is much lower than other territories, we want to continue to maintain that level of a high number of diagnostic tests. We want to take this moment to quicken asymptomatic cases and avoid transmission, and thus increase the decline of new infections, which is something that we are now particularly concerned about. In addition, we continue, of course, with the pencils in the residences, which allow us to quickly cut down the groars, as is the case with Chantada's residence, in which last week we were able to curb that chain. The testing was key to protecting our seniors, after priority vaccination in these centers, with the logistical effort developed by the vaccination staff. We've continued to keep all the workers, and also the residents every time they join, or -- as I said -- periodically. In the previous appearance we set a goal, in addition, to put a PCR test at the disposal of the Greeks whenever they need it. Right now we have fully developed it in the province of Pontevedra and in the province of Coruña, and in these same days we will definitely close in Lugo and Ourense. We also continue with the pilots we run at airports, started at the end of March, and those who voluntarily participate in any person arriving on a plane in Galicia. We believe that at this moment they are fundamental to increasing mobility in our country. So far, about seven thousand tests have been carried out, and last week we formally requested Aena's address the extension -- because it was linked to the state of alarm -- of at least three more months of this agreement, to be able to develop these tests in state-owned infrastructures. In addition, we have also installed a pilot test in places where transmission is being elevated, points for performing tests to which anyone can approach voluntarily. So we did it at Vigo Town Hall last week, where we installed two points of this kind in the Progress and Teis markets. And right now I have to reiterate the importance of participation in these kids. We ask the entire population to attend, because we are detecting that, in this sense, there is a relaxation and a decline in participation, which we are concerned about. We are aware that it is many months of pandemic and also of what it can be supposed to be isolated from being detected as positive. But in this sense we invite you to think of the benefit of the Community, which, if you go astray, will prevent other people from being infected. And we don't have to trust each other to think, as grandpa is already or the vaccinated parents, the situation is different. On the contrary, we must remain cautious. It's always true that we're closer to seeing the exit, and we have to keep up with that last effort. Precisely early detection will allow us to gradually return to normal. That's why we're going to maintain the full capacity of our system, using all the means within our reach, in addition to available diagnostic tests: antigen tests, nasopharyngeal PCR, saliva PCR or PCR through pooling. To continue to approach asymptomatic cases and search for the virus further, taking advantage of the fact that we now have more available capacity to have that lower incidence, we have implemented a new system that we call "backtracking." In the beginning, it's planned to do a two-week pilot test, which started yesterday. So far, when a diagnosis of a case of covid was produced, close contacts were identified taking into account the maximum communicable period, i.e. contacts from isolation to two days before the onset of symptoms, and in asymptomatic cases, two days before having a positive test. But sometimes this is not enough -- we've seen it -- because transmission chains can persist, especially obviously, in undiagnosed cases, but also as a result of the transmission by aerosols in super propagation spaces, mainly in inner enclosures. So in this project we deploy a temporary extension of the 40-hour contact study from day zero -- the first day of symptoms or positive test -- up to seven days, and besides the use of the mask. So our goal is to detect hidden transmission chains, thus preventing additional cases and cutting the circulation of the virus. As I say, it's a pilot test and we'll see the results. We have to see if this opening in the criterion produces a significant increase in evidence -- we're sure that it does -- but then it has an equally important and parallel diagnostic performance. We continue to work in this direction, since early detection and isolation are a guarantee of reduced transmissibility that will allow us to keep moving forward in the account behind this pandemic. In short, we have to attack the virus with all our strength, and now more than ever. In the same vein, we want to continue to insist on prevention measures. And that's why the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Health are continuing to develop the campaign to strengthen the enforcement of prevention measures against covid-19, which we have already started in February. So far, they have carried out a total of 14,886 visits; of them, 8,156 correspond to restoration sites, 4,197 to the food sector and 1,997 to sports facilities, among others. As you know, the objective of this campaign is essentially to advise on health measures. And although 4,116 breaches were detected in 1,230 establishments, the measures that were taken, in most cases, were given a time limit to be able to correct these non-compliances. And in only 7,7 % of cases if other measures have been established, such as requirements or sanctioning files. With regard to the care situation, we continue to maintain a stable situation with regard to hospitalizations. The ICU stays are now longer, and we have a total of 43 patients in critical beds today. The figure has grown with regard to my previous intervention, so I reiterate that we cannot neglect ourselves. In hospitalization units, we now have 147 patients hospitalized, which represents 88.5% less than we had at the peak of the pandemic in January. In general terms, Galicia is still one of the autonomous communities with fewer occupied beds, both in critics and in conventional hospitalization. However, I reiterate that any neglect can lead us to a situation that no one wants, in which hospital pressure increases. That no one forgets that every day there are still new infections, new incomes, and that -- fortunately, not every day anymore, but many of them -- there are still deaths in Galicia. Of course, our respect, our condolences and our support to the relatives and close relatives of each of these victims. [[Applause]] We're right now around 20 percent of the immune population -- data yesterday, 19.3%, in this case already with a complete pattern -- and although it's a good data, we're obviously far from that group immunity that we all crave. This pandemic has not yet ended, and conveying the message that it is already overcome is dangerous and counterproductive. That's why we've been insisting for months before the Government of Spain that at the end of the alarm state it couldn't be a final point in the fight against the virus from a normative point of view. Unfortunately, this apparent interest in the Government for transferring a triumphalist image of the end of the cycle, which is not yet real, has led to communities having to make regulatory engineering in order to be able to take our measures at the margins that allow us to apply the rules in force. After the commitment of a year ago from the Government of the State and its president and its vice president that a reform of the organic law on public health would be carried out, today we find ourselves without a state of alarm and without that reform, and in addition to an appeal brought against our law, because they do not even allow us to legislate others in this case. From Galicia we were loyal to the Government at all times in this sense, because -- as they will remember -- in October we sent to the Government of Spain a proposal for organic legislation in which we wanted to clarify which measures the autonomous communities could take, but we never received a response. Galicia had to take the initiative to draw up its own legislation, adopted in this parliament. And there they were faster in the answer: resource of unconstitutionality, without a call, without a prior communication, absolutely nothing. In view of this reality, there are some statements that aim to mark autonomic governments as disloyal. It is that the Council of State acknowledges literally: "Organical Law 3/1986 may be in need of more detailed and concrete legislative adaptation, in order to provide competent health authorities with the best possible legal framework to deal with present and future situations of serious risk to public health." It's that organic law has only four articles, and the third that we intend to regulate the whole pandemic, says exactly, "Article 3. In order to control communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive actions, may take appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of persons who are or have been in contact with them and with the immediate environment, as well as those deemed necessary in case of risk of a communicable nature." That's why the Council of State says that we have to make that legislative adjustment that brings more detail and concretion. And to the Government all that happens to solve this situation, in which neither Galicia nor the PP communities are the only ones who demand tools, is to judge the square pandemic. -- as I say -- : to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Supreme Court, which will have to make decisions on the basis of an inaccurate law. Unheard!, the governments elect us for this, to govern, and to parliaments to legislate and, in this case, to concreteize. And the government in this case is distancing itself from everything. He continues to disagree with the pandemic, he doesn't want negative data -- contagion and death -- to have to do with the government of Spain's logo. But, yes, it had the highest visibility in the vaccine boxes received, and it follows the screen in the public statements about a vaccination process that is already carried out by autonomic services. Look: Galician Union was the first ever, not only when the data was positive or positive. We've been the first in the management of the pandemic, moving forward in the management from the first moment, in the purchase of respirators, masks, gloves, in the organization of hospitals, in the execution of the PCR tests... we're not going to leave the Greeks behind, even though we have to assume political wear. The central government, theoretically, is a defender of co-governance for evil. They now support us in co-governance, but in this case autonomous communities with the judiciary. And in view of this is what happened last week when the courts endorsed the measures taken in some autonomous communities, but not in the Basque Country; with which it is not supposed to be able to apply restrictive measures in a community with an impact accumulated over five hundred. So, with this situation, in Galicia we continue to opt for the criteria of the Clinical Committee and wait for the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to allow us to maintain the rules that we published in the DOG and which came into force on Sunday night. Some people use the fact that, until now, we will always rely on the support of the Court in the measures we have been taking to minimize the problem that causes the absence of clear legislation. On the other hand, I must congratulate the judicial services of the Council of Health and the staff of the Council of Galician Judiciary for their extraordinary work in the foundation and defence of these measures, which has allowed the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to endorse its correction, despite the ambiguity of the legislation that we are obliged to use. He did it last summer in the Navy case, and he did it on the occasions he asked them to do it, and we hope, of course, that he will do it these days after having submitted the corresponding request yesterday. As for the progress of the vaccination process, we are very pleased about how it is developing in Galicia. Every week we update and vaccinate all the new workers and users who join the residences. That's why our data is never 100 percent, because they're continuously incorporating themselves into the working and new resident centers. The data referred to the ministry for the population denominator are those of institutionalized persons belonging to the homes of older, disabled, and chronic and mental health patients. In addition, we have practically finished vaccination with a full schedule of 80 years of age, with the effort I put forth for our staff to approach the homes to vaccinate all those who needed it. Galicia has a very dispersed population and half of the population nuclei throughout Spain, which undoubtedly makes it difficult to reach all points. And for this it was key to planning, in addition to the knowledge of nursing staff -- primary in this case -- both of their territory and, essentially, of their patients. Over the past few weeks, we have progressed in administering second doses to the 70-79-year-old group. And yesterday we ended the vaccination of the age group 60 to 69, logically all those who wanted to be vaccinated and offered to them. And even today we're starting to vaccinate people in the age group of 55 to 59. And we will also resume the vaccination of the essential groups that have become paralyzed -- as you remember -- following the adjustments to the criteria for the use of AstraZeneca vaccine. As for the groups we're closing, I want to point out that we're going to keep calling all those who haven't come to your appointment, and we're also continuing to schedule the homes in these groups. Last week, we mentioned 266,628 people, who came to 234,750. So we had an 88% adherence, because without being 100 percent -- that's what we'd like -- we think it's quite significant. And this week we've been quoting 187,000 Greeks and Greeks to get the vaccine. With regard to vaccinations these days, I'd like to take advantage of -- as I did yesterday -- to apologize to the people who stayed on Sunday without a vaccine and had to come back yesterday, in this case in the Sanitary Area of the Crown. It was a situation derived from the good faith of vaccinating the people accompanying the people who were quoted and who had appointments in the next few days, and who, by facilitating their process, were vaccinated, with bad luck that at last no vaccines were left for the people who had appointments. This is -- I repeat -- an act of good faith by health professionals, but we can't repeat it again. It had already happened on one occasion, well, it's true that with the first vaccines -- telling you that after someone didn't come -- there was a certain margin to be able to vaccinate these people. Of course, we can't have this situation again and -- I repeat -- I apologized to them yesterday. Yesterday they were all vaccinated, those who didn't get vaccinated, and we hope this situation won't happen again. In any case, too, all thanks to the health staff in the Coruña area, in this case, who was able to vaccinate -- last Sunday, when this happened -- more than 4,000 people. For vaccination we will continue to use the fourteen points of mass vaccination, where we enable the necessary lines of administration according to the available doses. This Tuesday we have running on these fourteen points one hundred and ten points in the afternoon and ninety-three in the morning. And on Thursday we'll have eighty-nine lines working. I would like to thank you again for the work of all the Council professionals involved in this process and the staff of Sergas, as well as the magnificent collaboration of the councils. In particular, I would like to highlight the work of Civil Protection and the Red Cross, which, with uninterested work, help the mass vaccination days to be carried out in an orderly manner. Again I want to make a call, in this case, to all the people who are called to vaccinate, come. All marketed vaccines have proven their effectiveness and safety. I want to encourage citizens to attend their appointment because, whatever vaccine they're going to administer, when it's administered, it's because the European Medicines Agency and the scientific community have found it safe for their age group. The best possible vaccine is the put vaccine. In this sense, I must regret that the Government of Spain has decided to delay, without the support of the European authorities or the vast majority of scientific societies, the administration of the second dose of AstraZeneca to people under 60 who have already received a first dose of this vaccine. Galicia voted against this decision in the National Public Health Commission because it understood that it was not supported by scientific evidence, but majority voting was in another sense. And once again, we maintain loyalty, of course, to the decisions made by the collective bodies that govern our health system and apply the rules to our vaccination process, although they make communication difficult for our population of the importance and security of this process. We've received a lot of calls, a lot of messages from people who have that first dose and who voluntarily want to put the second dose, and what we're telling them is that, in fact, it's not established this way and that even if they want to, they won't be able to get that second dose. As in the case of shrimps, vaccination is a community benefit, since the sooner we reach a high percentage of immunized people, the sooner the infection will be reduced and the sooner we can relax the restrictions. But in Galicia we're not only defending vaccination according to scientific criteria, we're also using massive vaccination to contribute to scientific progress and improved process safety. From the Directorate General of Public Health we are conducting a study plan of possible adverse effects or vaccine failures of vaccines against covid within the program of pharmacovigilance of Sergas. In addition to the study with this plan, we work towards patient safety, since we study adverse or severe reactions to vaccines, and also the lack of immunological response to the vaccine. To do this, a collection of biological samples was made that are used as control and that allows us to compare these cases, those of the patients we detected, one of the two variables above, in order to identify which are the differences. In addition, within the Galcovivac project, we collaborated with the research group on genetics, vaccines, infections and pediatrics of the IBIS, a collaborative WHO Vaccinal Security Centre, in addition to continuing studies on the reduction of positivity -- data that I brought before them in my previous appearance --. And we already have the results of this first study of the relationship between vaccination and hospitalization, in addition to how the vaccine affects the reduction of mortality. I want to point out that the study of the 250,000 people vaccinated against the covid in Galicia shows that the effectiveness of the vaccine is 88.4% in reducing coronovirus infections, 94% in single dose hospitalization and 95.7% in full regimen and, most importantly, 100 percent in ICU and deaths. These are data -- I repeat -- extracted from patients vaccinated in Galicia, in a database of 300 100,000 patients and, in particular, -- this is ahead of them -- of a study of the 250,000 vaccinated people in the first study. This study, no doubt, shows that vaccines are not only safe, but protect us from the worst consequences of infection: entry into ICU and deaths. Even so, the General Directorate of Public Health and the General Directorate of Health Care also collaborate in a vaccination study in transplanted patients to know the effectiveness of this group. So -- as Galicia was saying -- not only is she vaccinating, but she's establishing lines of collaboration in pharmacovigilance and research with staff of recognized prestige in the scientific field, such as Dr. Federico Martinón or Dr. Marisa Crespo, to whom I would, of course, like to thank you for your work. As far as the people who have passed the disease are concerned, we continue to move forward in the implementation of the poscovid units. In the first term, we carry out telematic training primarily for primary care professionals, in order to be able to know how it works and the questionnaires we have sent to patients in the last few weeks. They've seen this telematic training over 2,000 people, and it's available for those who can need it in the YouTube channel of the Health Knowledge and Innovation Agency, ACIS. On Thursday, 30 we started the referral of the questionnaire on persistent symptoms of cowardice and those people who suffered the disease at the beginning of the pandemic to progressively re-emit it to the more than 100,000 who overcome the disease in our autonomous community. In this way, primary care providers may be able to evaluate their patients, so those who think they are proposed to be given special follow-up on these units can be referred. This information sent to us by the patients will not only serve that individual assessment that we consider essential, but also to make a global assessment of which were the sequels that most of the people suffered from the Welsh and the Greeks who suffered this disease. As you see, you can see week by week that we are taking committed steps on all the issues that we are going to formulate and deal with in these audiences. We're also starting the Sergas Care Reactivation Plan at the hospital -- which I've already commented on -- with these 15 million euros. By means of this plan, there will be about two hundred and thirty thousand extraordinary assistance acts, over one hundred and fifteen thousand diagnostic tests, over ninety-two thousand consultations and over nineteen thousand surgical procedures. This additional triad, mainly directed to patients with pathologies different from those originating from the covid, aims to achieve a decrease in the number of patients waiting for a scheduled surgery, first consultation or diagnostic test. This aid reactivation, which will generally be gradual and dynamic, will also be reversible, of course, depending on the evolution of the pandemic. Over the past year, the Health Council has maintained a commitment to care for patients who need a surgery considered of priority 1, as well as pathologies related to diagnostics included in the Decree of Maximum Time of Care Guarantees, which are, in its vast majority, oncotoxic patients. The same was done for consultations and diagnostic tests on rapid pathways of cancer, giving the best and the fastest possible response to people with serious pathologies. Therefore, this extraordinary plan will allow us to re-approach to the pre- pandemic care activity. As far as care is concerned, I want to give you a little more time to talk about primary care. The Galician Union does not forget that the vast majority of the Galician and Galician people who suffered the coward in Galicia were followed and attended by this level of care, about ninety-four percent of the Welsh people who passed the covid were followed by primary care. In the peak peaks of the pandemic, with more than twenty-two thousand active cases in Galicia, about twenty-one thousand patients were overcoming their disease at home, to care and under constant supervision of primary care professionals. We know that primary care professionals, with the institutional support of the health system, have been able to meet the objectives marked every year and even in adverse circumstances. In this sense, the progressive reactivation of the presence activity in primary level was also set as a further goal for the recovery of normality in all public services. We are perfectly aware that the recovery of facelessness does not depend solely on professionals. The Galician Union took various measures to facilitate it, beginning with vaccination, of course, as it could not be otherwise, with the highest priority of primary care professionals, but also, of course, with all the population most commonly used in these centers. In addition, we are undertaking a reform process that will allow us to ease the bureaucratic burden of all professionals. In this sense, we continue to move forward in the implementation of the 2019-2021 primary care plan with the provision of more squares and more means, and in the development of the document's objectives by a primary health system vertebrate vertebrate, through the work of the Primary Care Technical Council, which is active -- in fact, it meets this same afternoon -- and with fifteen working groups close to finishing fundamental conclusions for the reorganization of tasks between categories that develop its work at this level. Contribute to the early implementation of these conclusions is one of the fundamental objectives of this month's creation of the new General Directorate for Health Planning and Reform. [[Applause]] We will also respond to the request of the professionals to empower the figures of the heads of service and nursing coordinators, elected through contests in which the local health plan project is valued with a community medicine approach. That's why we consider that the increase in immunization of professionals and patients and the beginning of the reform put us in a position to increase, throughout this year, that presenceal activity that demands the population. Of course, it's always the professional's approach, and it's compatible with telematics, which, of course, is a very valuable tool that we can't obvious. I would like to point out that Junta has at all times defined any question in this sense -- many of them expressed in this same parliamentary headquarters -- that non-presental care, always used under the professional criteria of the optionals, is a useful tool for providing adequate health care to a large part of patients' demand. The difference between other positions, from the Galician Union, we are not working to resume the past, but to move forward towards the future, defining a new health model of the hands of their professionals. This advance towards the future of the health system is faced with reforms that are accompanied by economic resources, not only by the budgetary effort that the Union has made for this year 2021, but also by the use of the Next Generation funds to continue the transformation of the Greek health system. After the last appearance of the second vice president in this parliament, you already know the complete list of projects that the Health Council incorporates into the Greek candidacy these funds, so I think it's appropriate to give them an explanation of their objectives. First, we seek to take advantage of these funds to modernize all our diagnostic equipment, both the imaging and sterilization diagnostics and the electromedical equipment of the surgeons, which will allow us to make a significant change in the methods and quality of work. Secondly, you will see that we propose funds to generate the transformation of health infrastructures, moving towards more humanized and more efficient models in the hospital, in the field of primary care and in the field of mental health. Thirdly, we aspire to what Galicia can develop, with our own means, comparable or available treatments anywhere else in Europe or the world. We want to incorporate new therapies into the Greek public system. In this line, we have a recent parliamentary mandate, precisely to develop in Galicia a personalized medicine strategy and, in particular, a CAR-T drug manufacturing centre. CAR-T allows a patient's lymphocytes to be genetically modified to make them a drug for their own tumor. Having a centre in Galicia with technology and trained staff to enable us to manufacture these drugs will not only facilitate the application of these high-impact therapies to cancer patients in Galicia, but will also allow us to have a logistics infrastructure to advance the development of personalized medicine and advanced cellular therapies for other autoimmune, neurological or even rare diseases. This is a project with very important potential transformer of health care provided in Galicia, which is carried out together with all the health areas and the three Greek universities. And I would particularly like to acknowledge the efforts of the three, especially the University of Santiago de Compostela, which was frankly generous in the planning of this center. Another innovative therapy that we want to incorporate into the Public Health System in Galicia is protontherapy, which allows using protons to apply direct radiation to tumors located in sensitive areas such as the brain, marrow or eyes. Right now, there are only two private centers in Spain that offer this therapy. So we have an opportunity to be pioneers in the public development of this therapy and to place Galicia as a reference in these treatments for the entire northwest of the Peninsula, and even for neighbouring Portugal. [[Applause]] Fourthly, we want to address the challenge of the ultimate digital transformation of the health system, generalizing the use of big data and artificial intelligence in the network to break up physical barriers and facilitate the network work of professionals. Over the past ten years, Sergas has generated more than 400 million clinical events, six hundred million drug dispensation and two million clinical images. All this information -- completely scanned for years -- so far only is used for the individual treatment of a patient. This information can be invaluable for all our professionals to work on a network with a cross-sectional concept of health center, something like the eighth health area, which is a bit the summary of this project. That's why it's necessary to create an infrastructure so that all that information, properly anonymized, of course, can be accessible safely by professionals and researchers, and also be processed through artificial intelligence mechanisms. Through this we can put in place the intelligent clinical history, in which artificial intelligence plays a key role in bringing information to the health care professional to support it in its clinical decision. In addition, we want to use this information globally for the design of health policies and for the research and analysis of trends, and even the development of predictive models and early detection of pathologies. Finally, we want to promote biomedical research in Galicia, to develop new projects and attract talent and personal investigators. We want to enhance the capacity of the Galaga Public Foundation of Xenomic Medicine, a field in which Galicia is a reference and which needs infrastructure and equipment to become a training and research pole. And already in more direct relation to the coward, we intend to implement a massive sequencing plan, which we intend to further increase Galicia's capacity for the sequencing of viruses and bacteria. Although we have made an important effort in terms of increasing our capacity, which has allowed us to quickly detect variants such as India in recent days, we believe that we must move forward in this direction to be prepared for the future and thus be able to address any unforeseen public health issues. I'd like to point out that Galicia has shown this capacity, both with the appearance of the British variant and with the sequencing of other variants of the coronavirus -- as it commented on these last days of the subvariant, in this case, India --. But this doesn't mean that in our community they circulate these variants anymore, but that we have achieved the progress needed to detect them in this case. Finally, in addition to addressing the management of the pandemic, both in relation to infections and in the vaccination plan, we want to work on the recovery of activity in all areas of care, but also to address the future with the design, planning and implementation of health policies for the reform of the Greek health system. We will look at these projects to advance towards more comprehensive health care and greater research and prevention capacity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u28	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Mr Torrado has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, from our group, we want to express our inconformity, our feeling of absolute reproach for the behaviors that have been seen this weekend, massive and absolutely disorderly concentrations of certain people in some places, and that are a problem for the control of the pandemic. They are absolutely reprehensible. We would also like to make it clear, from our point of view, that it should not serve to criminalize anyone, because they are, in fact, very minority. Most of the population is good, especially the population in Galicia; because we must not lose sight of the fact that all these great concentrations occurred in places that are not the cities or the inhabitants of Galicia. And despite the fact that from a certain point of view of the media, it's about invading the whole territory with images of the great Spanish cities, it's not what the Greek people are doing, which in very general terms, very majority, is clearly well, much better, many times, than we can think of sometimes if we see other shows. But it's not possible to make this valuation without highlighting -- and this is sad to have to say, but it's so -- that these behaviors are also a result of speeches that settle down and feed confrontation. Because the partyism used to extremes, the twisted and torturing use of concepts such as freedom, ends up causing hooliganism, and hooliganism ends up provoking this fanaticism and this hatred. And in the end, permanent confrontation encourages non-compliance. And we make a call also to those from institutions who work to live in full confrontation and with this they feed that citizenship loses the sense of legitimacy about measures, because it also leads to a lack of proper control of the pandemic, although sometimes it seems to think only in the short term. [[Applause]] You also talked about numerous questions, Mr. Counsellor, about vaccination, measures, about the care issues in which we -- for a matter of time, because we have limited time and you don't -- we can't go in. But some of the essential questions about what you announced when you came in, which are epidemiological evolution and the state of vaccination, deserve us some comments. First of all, we always defend, and we will always do so, that vaccination is a complex process, undergo a stress test to health systems and administrations as a whole. From that point of view, we believe that vaccination must be classified -- within the dramatic situation -- as a certain collective success; collective success, of no one in particular. It seems that there are governments that are more committed to using it as a tool for confrontation. In Spain there are more than 20 million people with a dose, there are more than six million people with a full pattern. More than half a million people a day are vaccinated; in Galicia, almost 40,000 a day on average in the last phases of vaccination. More than 40 percent of the population throughout Spain already has at least one dose. And besides -- and you didn't mention this, even if this didn't fit you in the confrontation speech -- we knew yesterday that the president of the government, Pedro Sánchez, said that in a hundred days -- that it's a round mark, that it's also good to announce -- we'll have achieved what's called "the flock immunity," or about 70 percent of the population. That's good news. And you should try to be glad of the good news, even if you haven't given it, because it's good news for everyone. We have to try -- as we say -- to escape confrontation. You're something else, and it seems like this didn't matter to them. And you came here to do another kind of confrontation. Because, in the end, what we've seen here is that... well, an assistance plan, but you've been practically discriminating, from the very beginning -- in addition to the initial data -- with the central government. The truth is that Ayuso here had a delegate of his policy, who was Mr. Feijóo. And let me say that I am certainly disappointed, because I didn't expect you to grab that flag as you did today, going directly to discuss everything and say that everything the Government of Spain does is wrong, and making that interpretation also torturer of legislation. The truth is, I didn't expect that swing in you, because it's not your style, or at least it hasn't been so far, and we don't consider it from our group to be your style. You used the process, too, vaccination, to confront. Remember: they argued that the vaccines had arrived in Portugal, they said they would not arrive until April, they said they didn't arrive in time and shape, and they arrived!; they said everything. It gave them the feeling, at times, that it was wrong for them to get vaccinated. It was a surprising thing, which, of course, shouldn't be like this, and we understand that it can't be. We want to thank all the professionals who are involved, all of them, and especially the health care professionals, those who are day by day, those who are in the vaccinations. Let's see if we understand that you have made a reading of what's going on with AstraZeneca's vaccine, which has to do with a European decision, basically, but you've made a transversal reading, because now you blame the Government of Spain. And he said -- I think -- : : we're loyal to the decision even though it doesn't feel right, but, as we're loyal, we'll fulfill it. No, let's not confuse. That's not loyalty, that's compliance. Loyalty is to assume and cooperate in decisions. For example, there were problems with vaccination and inefficiencies in the Coruña. Is that why you shoot this government? No, because it's complicated to manage this, and we understand it. Mr. Feijóo announced that there would be Pfizer vaccines for people who were vaccinated with another vaccine, in this case, with AstraZeneca. It's a mistake, and it's not hard to understand that citizens can also understand that it's a mistake. He won't find in us an unbridled criticism of the matter. You have, on occasion, some management errors, and that's understandable. We understand this is loyalty, because we understand it, because we're not going to make a war with it. What you're going to say is, what the government does is wrong, we protest, we like... but we're loyal! No, loyalty isn't said, it's practiced, and you're not doing this. And this is what we accuse them of. [[Applause]] We'd like to know about vaccination -- in addition to all that we say, we think it's a collective success that needs to be developed -- how much is the percentage of rejection that you're receiving. Because we have made some proposals, for example, a campaign that triggered a hilarious debate by Mrs Vispo in the committee the other day and which, within the good tone with which Mrs Vispo is always debated, we have discussed some things, but we unanimously agreed on a campaign to promote vaccination. Because we're worried because all these problems, and the confrontation you're in, feed people to start getting less vaccinated. We don't know if now the rejection process is less than there was at first, which may be; and we want to know how and what they're doing, because there are approved things that are not going on. On epidemiological evolution, Galicia is generally quite well, reasonably well within the difficulties. There are communities that are better and there are communities that are worse. We haven't shared -- we've already said it from the beginning -- to evaluate according to the average, because the average, when there's an outlier element deep, like Madrid, it's not worth anything. The averages in Spain don't... probably, if we took Madrid off the count, all the other averages would be reasonable. And by introducing Madrid, the media are statistically an aberration to take into account, but in the end... it's also true. About primary care -- it won't give me time to do everything, and we also have an initiative -- if we have a proposal: remove ADXs. Because it's very important that when they work with things that have to do with primary, they talk to primary people. That would be quite important; we believe it is relevant. And besides, because you've been saying that you've been planning what to do. What needs to be done in primary school is more than planned and more than agreed; it's left to do it. So, rather than talk, maybe you should go say things. And you came in -- and that's why I'm saving myself the last moments of my intervention -- in a matter of legality and measures. We have a debate which, in this case, comes through a GNP that proposes in this plenary the People's Party. I thought that you, elegantly, would leave that debate for then, but you entered this debate, and it is true that, until now, you had not entered with that virulence with the words you addressed. You've also got into this problem with discussing the truth. It's just that you're arguing to the Constitution! And I understand that you read the parts that interest you in the Council of State resolution, but I'm going to read the conclusion, which is what it is worth. The Council of State says, "There are sufficient legal grounds to interpose an unconstitutional remedy against its amendment of the law." This is the resolution, everything else can read what they want, but this is the resolution. And you assume that the Council of State tells you that its law is unconstitutional. And I could boast of many things, but of what they say to me that I am unconstitutional... man, for I don't see it! So to think about it, let's think about it: if we get it out of the alarm state debate, which you guys mess with a lot of ease, it might be easier. I was against -- it was very small -- but for all I know now, clearly, I am against what was the famous law of kicking at the door, of the Corcuera Minister of the Socialist Party; bad law. Why? Because it invaded private territory, invaded freedoms, invaded people's rights. And I did it without being told by law. Why? Because in order to invade people's freedoms and rights, they have to have a court order or a state of alarm. You don't like the state of alarm, but you don't like having to go to trial. In the end, what do you like? You can do what you want, without anyone telling you anything. And that's unconstitutional. The debate is over. There's no more. [[Applause]] But what is more: if you want to be the judicial avalanche to go against the pandemic, the High Court sees it possible to limit the rights, you told them. What more do they need? Ah, but this ends the debate! And you're not solving the pandemic, you're in confrontation. And, unfortunately, you also entered that debate today. So, in the end, the question is, Counselor, if you propose in the State to extend the state of alarm, are you either in favour or against? Because that's the question: please or against? You can answer whatever you want, or it depends... are you in favor or against? It's just that as you've been, in all positions, always against what's going on... you're just in favour of being against it. But about extending the alarm state, would they be either in favour or against? Your party said otherwise, and you argue as if you were in favor. Do you know what's going on? If you wanted to extend it, you'd say it's wrong. And when he retires, they say he's okay. And finally, the only thing we're talking about is confronting. And remember the principle -- I'm finished now -- : when we confront, the legitimacy of institutions is lost, and hooliganism invades the streets. And when hooliganism invades the streets -- in addition to there has to be a gale who stopped their feet at irresponsible boys, as seen on Networks. Fantastic, Chela Carballa! -- it doesn't have to be a citizen who does the work that the governments aren't doing. The governments, instead of confronting each other, and you with the central government, must be calling people into calmness and prudence. Because, in the end, what we're talking about is that these people in the streets are sending people to the ICU, and those people sometimes die, and that's a drama. Afraid of what? In most of the low level of social education for some people, but in many places for the hooliganism you preach. Resolve more and confront less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u30	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u31	For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u32	Thank you, President. Good day to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Indeed, alarm status has ended, but not the pandemic. And we have to remember a pandemic that denied the life of 2,394 Galicians and Greeks. The first thing I have to say is that in the BNG we regret that the debate about the measures to be taken to continue controlling the pandemic rotates around the legal framework, because we have quite clear that the best legal framework is what decides on itself, not what they impose on it. And that's why we are surprised at the criticism so exacerbated against the end of the alarm state in which the People's Party is installed, when it was radically against the alarm state and against the approval. A People's Party that reiterated that opposition to the state of alarm is nothing, and at the mouth of its top leaders it announced that it would vote against it if it was proposed again, considering it as a "sterile tool" -- I read textually statements by senior leaders of the People's Party. And it's surprising that you had to get a pandemic so the People's Party would realize that the autonomic framework doesn't serve to solve our country's problems, it doesn't serve to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, it doesn't give the Union powers to make silent decisions. It seems a lie that he had to arrive at the pandemic to realize that he must be at the expense of what Madrid says and that he almost never does so in favour of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. It seems to us, of course, at the BNG that the People's Party is set up in a policy of seems to want something when it really wants it. It seems incredible to us to be surprised at this reality. But what I'm really convinced about is that they already knew we had very little tools to be able to act. It's that we have such self-governance that the coup d'Decree is suspended -- as we saw in this pandemic -- or the coup d'état constitucional or the Supreme Court. That's the reality of this self-governance that we're so resourceful in what we're inserted into. But the People's Party already knew. The reality is that I knew it, but it's functional that they get outraged by the lack of tools from the board so they can cope with Galicia's problems. Because they've shown so much that they don't want skills, they don't want more skills to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, but they're useful. And we're also surprised by this concern about having no instruments to act and that they were not in a hurry to equip themselves with them. Of course, it surprises us that they have published the measures that Galicia is going to launch and in discount time, twenty-four hours before the alarm state begins. And it surprises us even more that soon they had no rush to transfer them to the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, which they still waited yesterday to transfer them, because they are so worried, because it's to have legal sources. Of course, this whole thing comes to confirm that what they're worried about isn't exactly that. And it also surprises us that, on the one hand, they show the enormous concern about how the pandemic can evolve -- the concern that, of course, we share in the BNG -- and on the other hand, they announce the possibility of concerts with 10,000 people; at a moment of still much uncertainty, where caution is being asked for citizenship, has not ended the risk or need for protection against the virus. There are still many uncertainties about how the new variants will act, the effectiveness of the current vaccines with them. It doesn't reach twenty percent, actually -- data that is hanging today on the Ministry's page -- 19.3% of the Danish population, discounting those under 18 years of age. It doesn't reach 20 percent, i.e., it's between 50 and 60 percent of that population yet to immunize. And the message from the president of the board is that he's valuing ten thousand people's concerts. Of course, we find this message surprising. By the way, a president of the board who should be here today, although we all know that it's better to go on prime time on Gallega TV as a tele-preacher, than it's highly proven that he has qualities. And I said this, Counselor, what I have to tell you is that at BNG we have a lot of concern -- and for the information that transcends, it seems also shared by the Clinical Committee -- for this abrupt opening from going from zero to 100 with the mid-morning strikes of May 9. Concern about immunization among autonomous communities and concern about how it may not even be possible to reduce this mobility to communities with a similar level of epidemiological incidence. What can happen is that all the effort made by the population and the professionals is going to waste in a few days. And I have to tell them that they were wrong at the beginning of the pandemic not to shield themselves against the most affected territories, not to shield themselves and not to ask them to close Madrid and to operate as a true fan to the rest of the state and to Galicia, and they're going to be wrong again. Control of any public health problem has two very interdependent legs: one, policies implemented by governments and the second, individual responsibility. And the BNG has to regret again that they almost do everything to that individual responsibility, and they're still installed in that strategy that all that's right is what Joine does, and what's wrong is the responsibility of others. And Junta has responsibilities, there are actions that depend on its policies. The first of these actions is to provide us with a strong health system, especially primary care. All experts continue to agree that it is essential for the control and follow-up of the pandemic. Primary care that was with a lot of problems before the pandemic, but that now with the pandemic multiplied, and essentially the deficit of professionals and resources. You here today made a whole list of issues that are under way, what you're going to do with the European Union's funds. But at no time did he talk about the fundamental failure, the fundamental problem of our country's public health and, in particular, primary care, which is human resources, which are professionals, some professionals who have saved the situation. And what does the Council do in the face of this effort of primary care professionals? To blame them for the situation and threaten them with cutting their wages if they don't solve the problem, when the problem is the responsibility of the Council. It's your responsibility, Counselor, and it's outrageous that they're responsible, they try to hold professionals accountable for the situation in which primary care is at stake. The professionals are outraged and, of course, the BNG with them for this response given by the counsellor for the situation of primary care. Because the situation of primary care is resolved with resources and more professional. And I'm going to make a proposal to you, Counsellor, for the EUR 204 million that is going to return the State Government to the Galician Council, for this undue retention of the December IV of 2017, in particular for the reinforcement of primary care. That's 204 million euros for the reinforcement of primary care, for the reinforcement of staff frameworks, for the implementation of professional service portfolios, for human resources management plans. [[Applause]] Which is what you're not doing to comply with these fundamental structural measures, beyond technology and that excellence in which you want to be installed and which is contrary to the need for professionals to have enough numbers. And I want to tell you one thing, Counsellor: the success of vaccination of what you claim is supported by the work of a staff who is exhausted, which has to multiply as cases increase, the need for follow-up and care pressure increase. I want to ask you, what's going to happen to the copper contracts that end now this month of May and that today they don't know what they're going to do with them, what's going to happen to those people who hired because of the coward and who today, mid-May, don't know what's going to happen to them? What is the plan for staff to enjoy their vacations, enjoy their well-deserved rest after fourteen months of tireless work? What's going to happen to the staff, if you have to continue with the lads, continue with the vaccination and help recovery? They're talking about a waiting list elimination plan that I don't know how many millions -- insufficient, of course -- what personal, counsellor? Under what conditions and what personnel will be able to carry out that deletion of waiting lists in these exhaustion conditions? I'd like you to make a really reference to how they're going to do it. And also what depends on Joine is to carry out a process of vaccination with transparency and rigour. And, of course, we keep insisting that there are irregularities, there are dysfunctions, there are non-compliances with criteria that you yourself have established. We'd like you to explain why people from priority groups who had to be vaccinated today are still not vaccinated. The drugdependence units, which only have the complete pattern to one third, the other third has only one dose, and the other third is not vaccinated; when it's a priority staff included in group 3, and that you have there not finished vaccination. What about high-risk people who had to be vaccinated alongside the 70-79-year-old group, and many of them are not vaccinated or know what's going to happen to them? And it would be good to explain why the sailors have not been vaccinated, though it is more than obvious that it is necessary to do so. Because they're constantly emerging because of the working situation in which they have to develop their work and the impossibility of maintaining protection measures. We can talk about grotes in Cambados or in Ribeira or other ports. Why don't they have them vaccinated today and they're just installed to see who's the vaccine, whether you or the central government? And in the meantime, the sailors were contaging...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u34	...and having problems for them, for their families, for the rest of the environment and for the economic situation. The Basque Country has vaccinated us, and you should explain why, by being able to do it and having doses to do it, they haven't. And then the next shift I'll keep asking you about the possibilities and actions that you have to put together the Galician Union and that we certainly don't think you're doing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u35	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u36	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, from the People's Group, we thank you for coming back today, on your own request, to report to this parliament on the evolution of the pandemic and how the process of vaccination is going. We thank him for the democratic exercise of accountability before the parliamentary groups and more at this critical moment that we are living in, but also because it allows us to see how we are moving forward and how the things that you, Counselor, promise here will be fulfilled in the following. Today you appear here, once again, and the opposition will continue with the fear that this government is not transparent, which is very opaque... but the fact is that the last time you were here and the groups were also questioning this transparency of the vaccination process, you promised that a specific website would be launched to follow the vaccination dates in Galicia. And today this website is a reality and it has up-to-date information every day at the disposal of citizenship. And on the coronavirus.sergas.gal/vaccination page, we can see how the vaccination process progresses in numbers, just as we know each day personally cases of people who attend the vaccination centers to receive their dose, because we're going over the various age groups. Vaccinations that, by the way, have a very high degree of satisfaction among users; they are all very pleased with the organization, the agility and the treatment they receive. Fortunately, we no longer speak of those endless queues that Mrs. Pontón spoke of at the beginning of the process, which were no more than a show of the despair of the opposition, like the cases of those who always speak. They always take advantage of that about a case. You don't see the thousands of people who are satisfied, but if you see and if you point to that case where there's some timely mistake, which, of course, always corrects. This opposition which says it's loyal, hand in hand, but which nevertheless supports the Government of Sánchez, the most disloyal with Galicia and the rest... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u37	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u38	...the government of President Sánchez -- sorry -- the most disloyal of Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities, as we're dealing with the chaos that's generating their decision not to legislate or let themselves be legislate in order to cope with the alarmless pandemic. And I remember that saying about The Hortella Dog, who doesn't even eat or lets eat. Mr. Torrado, you say the PP is inconsistent with the state of alarm. And I'm going to summarize our position again: we support it while the Government promised that it was developing a specific legislation to manage the pandemic; we abstained from giving the Government an ultimatum to develop a legislation, that legislation that it had promised; we voted against because we found that the Government was refusing to comply with that commitment, and we opposed it again when the Government re-declared it instead of approving that law that it had promised. And we're sorry now that the second state of alarm will be over again without the government's lawfulness promised before the first one. Perfectly consistent, Mr. Torrado! The problem is that you have a problem of coherence, that is, you are very stubborn and you refuse to reform organic legislation as all self-government, the Council of State and now also the Supreme Court itself, to which you have now passed the paper. And they have to read the news well, the TSJ agrees that we have to change the legislation. You have to read all the full news. Well, now it seems that neither you, the members of the Government, agree on whether to legislate or not to legislate. Get some paper, Mr. Torrado! Rectify, stop being followers of this government and be consistent with that government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez and Mrs. Carmen Calvo, who in May 2020 promised legislative reforms that they had never done before. And if the government doesn't, they're consistent with the Aragonese socialists or the Basque socialists, who support the legislation of the autonomous communities, while you're here applauding the Government boycotting the Greek law. That is disloyalty, Mr. Torrado! The disloyalty of a central government that you might have left autonomic governments without legal instruments to fight the virus, because that disease doesn't go with the government, disease is the thing of the autonomous communities. The central government is solely responsible for the cure, the vaccines. And in that coordination of the vaccination process, I want to point out that the Union is being loyal to the Government of Spain, although they make it very difficult. And today the counsellor spoke of the process of vaccination and the loyalty of the protocols that are decided at the central level. Mrs. Prado, you were talking about sea professionals. It's been months since the Government of Greece insisted that there should be a national agreement to design a vaccination logistics for this collective. And after this was formulated faithfully by the Government of Greece, at the International Council, we could hear Minister Darius say that "they will be vaccinated when they are touched and with the vaccine that touches them." And at the same time as the minister said so, Mr. Torrado and Mr. Caballero, who is even more serious, also the delegate of the Government of Galicia, say that if Galicia didn't vaccinate its sailors it was because he didn't want to, because the Basque Country had done so. In fact, you applaud, the Basque Country has done it by jumping to the rules agreed on at the Interterritorial Council and the National Vaccination Strategy. You have to tell the truth! And you, instead of pressing your government to set common standards, applaud those who skip them. That's yours! [[Applause]] Fortunately, Counselor, wisdom has been imposed and there is at last a channel of communication agreed between the Government and the Union to start this process. Congratulations, therefore, to the advisor! for being loyal to national agreements, even when the representatives of the PSOE and -- so we see here too -- government partners here in Galicia encouraged you to be disloyal. They make it very difficult, but that loyal collaboration is what's allowing the vaccination process to move forward and that we've already got about half a million totally immunized Greeks, because the Union responds to the population, and the population of Greece also responds to the Union. He responds in spite of the worries that the central government itself generates. The Socialist Group recently called for an institutional campaign to disseminate the goods of vaccination in this parliament. Okay, but it would help a lot more if there wasn't a government campaign -- you don't know what interests -- by doubting a given vaccine. And today there are about 60,000 Greeks waiting for the second dose of a vaccine that has passed all clinical trials and that has the visa and pleasure of the European Medicines Agency, and that cannot be administered because the German Government doesn't want to. And since the People's Group we appreciate that the Union has opposed this decision against scientific evidence, and we encourage it to continue to work for this criterion to change. We have an obligation to transfer to the population that all the vaccines that European pharmacological authorities endorse are safe. Anyway, I see the time's up. Of course, we're not going to doubt the German Government, because the Greek Government is acting consistently. We can't listen to everything they've told us since the opposition because, of course, we have to be with the Greeks and say all the good news, all of it. We must celebrate that we are the second in administered doses, that we are the second autonomous community in vaccinated population over 60 years. We have to thank him, Counselor, for continuing to come to the full, always putting the truth forward, with certainty, with coherence and for continuing to work so that Galicia will continue to have this good data in the control of the pandemic, which is shaking us very hard, but that with work, with rigour and with responsibility and, of course, with the indispensable help of vaccines we will go on. It's clear that we haven't won the virus yet, that we must continue to be afraid of the outbreaks, that we continue to live with the virus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u40	... -- I'm done now -- that he's there and that we have to keep acting with care. It's true that the vaccination campaign is progressing, but it's true that like a shot it's not going. There's still a lot of people left to immunize and we'll continue to be there, supporting the German Government and trying to get vaccines, how much better, because we know that the government is able to put all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u42	...the doses that are reaching our community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The health advisor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u44	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer some of the questions that have been raised here today. I'm going to start by thanking Mrs. Friend for her reference to the latest data we've entered on the website; that page that we actually promised a few weeks ago and it's a reality. A web page that works, of course, on Saturdays and Sundays, where you can see how the pandemic data evolve. Data I didn't want to use, Mr. Torrado, because I didn't want to suck. Because, in fact, I can even agree with you that this is collective work. I think in my speech, I spoke of civil protection, I spoke of the Red Cross, and I spoke of course, like, Mrs. Prado, of all the health professionals who are giving everything they have to give. Of course, from the Government too, Mr. Torrado, yes, yes; then we talk about the government, as I said before. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, first of all, I fully agree with you, with that rejection of those concentrations, which I believe, Mr. Torrado -- and you corrected me -- that in Galicia they did not actually give. So I think I'm going out here talking about concentrations in Madrid just like I didn't play. But if you do, I, of course, condemn the concentrations in Madrid in no way. I think we did things in a different way here, with all due diligence, and we managed, for various reasons, that last Saturday would not happen. Probably -- as I said before -- by acting with local police, with state security forces and bodies, and also something will have to see the coordination of the board or the work of the board in that sense; as has already been done in other moments of openness and escalation. I remember the famous weekend of the terraces, which also brought some trouble, and I think it's reconducible. And then I have to admit that it was everyone's job. What if I can't accept, Mr. Torrado, is that you say at the end of your intervention that we put people on the street. Because if you're going to let me talk about the confrontation, I can't agree with you there. I think a lot of things are taking her in the street. For example, you take contradictory messages to the street, and I'll talk after the sailors. You talk about loyalty, and I can't understand that a member of this chamber or a government delegate is publicly saying something that is clearly against what is collected in the strategy, which is the National Strategy of the Government and the Autonomous Communities. Yes, Mr. Torrado, you said Galicia could vaccinate sailors whenever you wanted. And besides, he even said that in Cantabria they were vaccinated. No, they're not completely vaccinated now. Yeah, they're halfway there. Well, I use to talk about sailors now. I think Galicia -- besides, I think we said it here at this headquarters -- since February we're asking the Ministry to be sensitive to the mariners' collective. I'm not going to repeat what you've already said because we're totally in agreement, because the sailors probably had to be set up in a peculiar way. We have set three criteria for mariners: that they were declared essential, that they are not, they are not as essential right now; that they had looked forward to vaccination when they came in tide, not at the appropriate date, and that they were given a single dose. That -- I repeat -- in the month of February. Finally, after considering it in all the interterritorial councils, absolutely in everyone, from that up until now, we have come to a solution in which, indeed, the ISM is already passing us from last Friday the lists of sailors who sail, who, curiously, have these lists of people who board, when they board and when they return from the tides, how long they last, in which port they arrive... because in that sense I think it's good that the crews of ships are not Welsh or Basques or cantabres, they usually, fortunately, be more of an autonomous community and much more of a single country. So, I believe that this issue is renewed -- and, in this case, with loyalty, Mr. Torrado -- with the Ministry of Health. More loyalty than you have to your own ministry, curiously. Regarding the data, I said I didn't want to get out of the vaccination data here because -- I repeat -- I can even consider it to be a collective success. The data this week are very good, frankly good, but it's also true that next week can be a little worse. Because we in vaccine management, in the percentage of vaccines we administer, have a precautionary principle, and until now we have always maintained a number of doses available to guarantee that second dose. It is true that there is a critical element in the vaccination process, which I hope will not go beyond what I can say now, which is not to count on that manufacturer who is AstraZeneca. With all the discrepancies that can be seen from a commercial point of view, it's a pity -- I said yesterday -- in this situation I don't have a vaccine provider that in other countries is being fundamental to the advance of vaccination and that we had problems here. First of all, there is an intrinsic problem, which is true of the reactions themselves which have been observed and which, Mrs Prado, has caused the suspension also within the National Strategy of the vaccination of the essentials of Group 3B. You can ask me to vaccinate the sailors without being on the show and you can ask me to vaccinate the 3B ones being suspended. We won't. We're going to be loyal to what's established in the Interterritorial Council, even though we disagree there. Indeed, with this amendment of AstraZeneca, Group 3B was suspended. When does it start again? As the strategy itself says: when the 60-69-year-old group is finished. We finished yesterday, and today we started with the essentials. We can't be more loyal and stricter to the vaccination plan. And he said that after that inconvenience -- obviously, the people who are waiting for the second dose -- you talk to me about a third, you tell me about irregularities in the vaccination process, because there's a third of the people who are vaccinated waiting for the second dose. Calling him irregularity is a little strong; reality is what we're talking about, that there's a decision by the Ministry of Health in a vote. Then we can talk about whether decisions on the Interterritorial Council are now made by majority or consensus as it has always been. Well, in the event of that vote, he decided to postpone his vaccination with AstraZeneca for four weeks. I repeat: we do not vote against, we do not oppose, Mr. Torrado. Once that's established, we do it, and we do it -- we do it -- with loyalty, because it's not written. And if you recover one of the records you have from the Interterritorial Council -- which I don't have, by the way, because as you once told me you had notes or records -- because if you recovered information from the last council, I asked the minister that this change not to put the second dose of AstraZeneca into a population of less than 60 was written somewhere, for example, in the vaccination plan, it wouldn't be too much. Because the vaccination plan says you have to follow the technical file, and AstraZeneca's technical sheet says you have to put the second dose at twelve weeks. So, even if it's not in writing, we're doing it. And to all the writings that come to us every day of people who have the first dose, and we ask the second one to answer the same thing: National vaccination plan. I'm going to tell them to ask you, see what you're saying; maybe do as the sailors do, i.e. tell them that Galicia can vaccinate them, if they want. It would be a very appropriate answer. [[Applause]] As far as lies are concerned, what's said about the vaccination of more than 60. Look, Mr. Torrado: we had planned to vaccinate with AstraZeneca the over 60, for using them in the population where we can use them for now, and so we moved it to the Ministry. And it was the Ministry that told us that we had to try to vaccinate in group 60-69, as the strategy itself says, with all the vaccines available. So we had Pfizer available and we changed. We were going to vaccinate 90,000 people with Pfizer last week, and we were going to vaccinate 60-69 years. That's what the president said: he's going to vaccinate Pfizer to group 60-69. Maybe you realized that all of 60-69, even himself, were going to be with Pfizer. But no, we used all the available vaccines, those of Pfizer, those of Moderna and those of AstraZeneca, and that's what was done last week, Mr. Torrado. Curious statistical theory to yours: if Madrid's data doesn't go well, I'll take them off, and then I've got another average. The averages are averages. And that's not defined by me or you, fortunately, by the statistics. When one averages the evolution of the pandemic in a state or region or continent, unfortunately, everything is put in, the good and the bad, because we could remove those from Madrid, those from the Basque Country, those from Catalonia... all of those who have bad data, we take them away. Whatever it is to say Galicia isn't doing so well. Well, Galicia, fortunately, thanks to the Greeks and the Greeks, is doing well in the pandemic. It was good, and besides, luckily at the moment, it didn't have peaks. There are communities that were very good, so they were very bad... of course, we can't say anything, that can happen to us, but for now, Galicia has always been at that low level of all the indicators. And that's positive, it's a data that depends on everyone, probably even on you, Mr. Torrado. But that's not why we're going to say, "Let's get Madrid out and get worse." You were speaking, both Mrs Prado and Mr Torrado, of primary care and ADX. Mrs. Prado, you asked for 100 percent of attendance in primary care. In front of a health center, he went there and said there were so many health centers and 100 percent presence. I've been defending in this parliament for months the presence component and not the presence of primary care at this moment. Non-presensitivity allowed many patients -- for example, all those diagnosed with covid -- from their home, without needing to go to the health center, and many other patients, chronic patients, recipes -- they did a lot of medical performances, not in the pandemic, but from before the pandemic. I remember, once again, that non-presental care was established in 2013, and when the pandemic arrived we had fifteen percent non-presentiality in health centers. By the way, there was an ADX indicator in those previous years, where primary care doctors were transferred to this target of increasing non-presentiality. The pandemic has arrived, and the non-preservation has helped in many ways, and we, of course, have not given up or escaped non-presental attention. It's true that the months are going on. Since May last year, we have established that health centers are open and safe, and health centers have been working in that context. It is true that once primary and vaccinated physicians have been vaccinated, an important part of the population, we and you and everyone alike demand more patients in presence format. What we said was that we had to look for a target to work on. And just like last year we set the target of forty percent of non-presensibility at the end of the year, this year we increased it. How much do we increase? For if in non-pandamy it was fifteen percent, we multiplied it by two and added a little more to get closer to that balance, and we fixed the non-presensibility on a forty percent as an objective by the end of this year. That's our goal. ADXs -- perhaps they don't know them in detail -- are the tool Sergas has to transfer them to health areas, first of all, their goals the following year, in terms of waiting lists, in terms of accessibility, in terms of quality, security, humanization goals -- a lot of goals; a more moving goal. And, of course, the salary of primary physicians will not depend at all on being more present or not being present; what will depend on the tools, on the epidemiological situation they have and on what is established in this case in the scenarios we have of work. In fact, -- he said -- we have a meeting of the Primary Care Committee today that should somehow close this whole proposed reorganisation of functions, which is fundamental. Obviously, the problem of primary care isn't in the pandemic, it comes from before. As you well said, it's a human resource problem, but not to hire them or to have two hundred million euros -- which, by the way, we've increased the primary care budget this year --. The problem is not just that, it's to have them, to locate them, to have them available. And we can talk about those who leave, about precarious contracts... I'm not going to talk about continuity contracts or the primary care plan with the incorporation of optionals. The problem is we don't have them, that's true; it's a real problem, and we have to keep working on it. With regard to the Health Act and the Council of State, Mr. Torrado, you do very well. The State Council report concludes that it could be institutional. Well, he also says at first that organic law has to change it. You're asking me whether we're supporters of the alarm state or not. I do another: are we supporters of modifying the organic law? yes or no? How? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, but as you ask me questions, I can ask them, too, right? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, anyway, I'll leave you the question there. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Then if you want, when you touch it, answer it. I'm about the state of alarm, if there were any acts -- because you don't have them -- we've been asking all the interterritorial councils to have tools. The alarm status gave us tools; the tools we wanted to give us organic law, and which he didn't give us or doesn't give us right now, and the tools that gave us the alarm status. The problem is that autonomous communities manage the pandemic with these tools and suddenly every day, those tools aren't. All autonomous communities, including many of their party communities, are asking for tools. I could give you the details of the communities, but as you know. People who manage every day need tools, and those tools suddenly decay. Alarm status gave those tools. If there was an alternative with other tools, perfect. The organic law, Mr. Torrado, the organic law of May, the organic law of October, the organic law that was raised here in the argumentary of the health law... the health law changes because there is no organic law. And with respect to organic law -- yes, I will agree with you, not with Mrs. Prado -- we don't want to make organic laws, Mrs. Prado, organic laws are state laws. I know you might want to make your own organic law. Maybe that's the problem, that Basques and Catalans want their own organic law. We don't, we want a state-owned organic law that establishes and reformes -- as the Council of State says -- that it needs to be reformed. So, when we have a reformed organic law, there will be no need to amend the Health Act and, of course, there will be no need to go to the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia and then go to the Supreme. In that sense, we will continue to advocate that need to modify organic law. [[Applause]] And regarding the deadlines you were commenting on, Mrs. Prado, we were still, with the last hope of the Interterritorial Council last Wednesday, to make some proposals. And in fact, there was a moment that even seemed to us to have a proposal, which pulled someone out of the sleeve the last minute, but the next minute I pulled it out. So once Wednesday there was no alternative, without delay, we called the Clinical Committee on Thursday morning. And by the end of the Clinical Committee we have transferred to the citizens and to the whole world our proposal, the proposal of the Clinical Committee. I don't know what information you have from the Clinical Committee, but I didn't see that alarm you said. Of course, all of us in the world, and particularly in Galicia, are aware of the risk and what these behaviors can generate that we are seeing in other communities, and, of course, we also have the risk of happening in Galicia, that is true. That's why, precisely, the Clinical Committee has proposed a number of measures aimed at trying not to happen. For example, extend the bar schedule, not to one, as you ask, Mrs. Prado. We were a little bit more committed and asked until eleven. It was till 9:00 and they went up until 11:00. Same schedule the restaurants had. And in the case of restaurants, pass it to one night. Why did we do that? Because, precisely, we believe and believe that there is an important effort of the hostel in Galicia and of the society itself that is enjoying its leisure in controlled surroundings, with security measures. And we didn't want to favor this kind of leisure. That's why, precisely, because this logic is reasonable and because we see a very proper behavior in the hospitality sector we broadened the schedule to prevent people from going to the squares. But, in case there was a risk that people would go to the squares, then we also proposed another measure -- pending, as it could not be otherwise, that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia would swallow it -- : we limited the meetings of non-convivors in the homes to avoid people's homes becoming parties or leisure places. That's what he did and what the Clinical Committee proposed, and that's what Galicia proposed. Let's hope -- as I say -- that, after an important effort in our legal services, to document it in the Clinical Committee, to support it scientifically and safely, and with the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia analyzing, we can have its ratification. Of course, we don't think that's the work of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia; we'd like it to have other kinds of tools and not go through. Another difference will be whether the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia rejects it, and the brilliant departure that the Government gives us is to take it to another court; to give situations like the ones that are being given now where if a court gives you a measure that you want, you say nothing, but if it doesn't give you what you want, you go to the other. With which, in the end, those differences that we didn't want to have and that we don't want to have between communities are already there; they're not going to be there, but they're already there right now. As for the contracts you asked, Mrs. Prado. First, the covid contracts end on May 31st, and end on May 31st because they are six months long. I think it's reasonable contracts, less bad that you didn't talk about precariousness. And by the end of May 31, those who need to be renewed for another six months. We have processes like vaccination at the moment under way. I just explained a moment ago the whole aspect related to diagnostic tests, in which Galicia I think it's making a very big effort, all of us, and we have to continue with them. Of course, if the epidemiological situation, especially in hospitals, in ICU or on the plant, remains, because there will be no longer any remedy to keep them. And I don't want to mix them with plans for recovery of care, which you also know what they're about. He said he doesn't remember how many millions, I say: 15 million euros for the recovery of the aid activity. Those 15 million euros, basically, are chapter I, Mrs Prado. They will go to professionals, to those who are or new, without any doubt; if we have them, of course, yes. On the other hand, he said that a very important part of these resources is going to be used for diagnostic tests, which is where we now have the greatest attraction to develop this. I will finish this second intervention by thanking you for that acknowledgement that you, and especially to the doctor, Friend, of this work that we are doing in general in the Health Council, and in particular in the Galician Health Service and in the General Public Health Directorate, for achieving data that -- I repeat -- I'm not going to fall into qualifying them or disqualifying them by saying they're data at one level from the rest of the autonomous communities, because this week they're good, but they might be a little worse next week. And, of course, I will end with something you said, Mr. Torrado, by talking about data and ads. Look, the 100-day announcement scares me, because it's not the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor the fourth time that ads are made, and then the suppliers don't provide vaccines. We learned, practically from the first day -- including the day of Portugal, Mr. Torrado, that you always pull me out -- that the vaccines until they're at our center, even until they're at the vaccination point, you can't count on them. We have frankly disappointing experiences in that regard. Look, last week I was telling you that we're calling 267,000 people, this week we're calling 187,000, why is that difference? Because last week we had 90,000 AstraZeneca that we don't have this week, and I don't think we're going to have it in a long time, beyond the problem we have to handle from the second doses of people who have the AstraZeneca vaccine. In this context, of course, I would not be in that sense as triumphalist as what the announcement did, and I would say that we must step by step, vaccinating all the vaccines that come to us, being prudent, having guaranteed the second doses and, of course, encouraging. And that's also what I agree with you and everyone that we must continue to encourage vaccination. You were asking about the vaccination data. These are good, you have to say they're good, but it's also true that all this noise with AstraZeneca, as you will understand, did not favor that people called last week came massively. They thought in very important numbers, over seventy percent, Mr. Torrado; then I'll give you the exact data. But it's true that we're noticing a decay in the people who came. However, with AstraZeneca we are no longer left for the second doses, and in this case it will not be given, but it can be done with other vaccines. We need to be very careful with the management of information. Luckily or unfortunately, vaccination is a process that is broadcast live, as if it were a massive event. That reflects that occupation and concern of the whole society for vaccination. I don't think it's a matter of campaigning right now, but I think it's a time to campaign for good information, for scientific information, for technical information. And in that sense, the Greeks and the Greeks are certain that they will continue to collaborate as they collaborate and make the vaccination process as successful as it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u45	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u46	Thank you, President. I'm going to try to start with something that isn't directly from the pandemic. And we're not going to lose ourselves in mathematical explanations, but the averages are not calculated by always putting everyone in. An external value which is very shot up or down is not calculated on an average because, if not, we would have to go into saying that when an average is given, not giving a scattering or a scattering measure, it's absurd too. I mean, we're not going into mathematical discussions, but accounting for Madrid is a statistical mistake. And besides what you say, "it's what you say so that Galicia gets worse." It is that discarding an autonomous community does not change the ordinal or relative position of any other community! Look at the way you're obsessed with what we're doing against them. No, if it's more, if they can even improve them, but in fact in this case it wouldn't change anything. But no, Madrid changes the averages, and you can't take measures or measure against the averages when there's an average that has a huge change with a data. That's a statistical question -- allow me to express myself, with an apology beforehand -- first of all statistics, first of all! But, come on, don't go there... and you know it, so the problem is that you know it. But at last... On issues of the legality of vaccination and epidemiological measures. You warned you didn't like the measure -- he said it from who said it -- from 100 days. He's the president of the government. And I don't know if they have a bet, because every time they mention Pedro Sanchez, they have to shoot him. I can say something even without a problem: it's the President of the Government who said it. And for now the things that have been said about vaccination are going to be fulfilled, and it's also good that, in a way, we can give some data of some hope. I like that you say: there's no need to give hopeful data because it can provoke frustration. He doesn't like Pedro Sánchez telling us that there are 100 days left to vaccinate us, for the immunity of seventy percent, but he didn't say anything to Mr Feijóo that he said we could vaccinate 100,000 in one day. Of course, what Pedro Sánchez did is true, and what Feijóo said we haven't checked yet, and we want to believe that yes because it's possible. But, of course, you do not reply to Mr Feijó what if you reply to Pedro Sanchez. That must be why they have those measures. And I asked him about the state of alarm, in this thing that you do when someone comes, which seems to us to be the opposition. He didn't answer me. I understand that it is difficult for you to answer if you would be in favour of extending the alarm state, which is a simple position: yes or no. The PP, in general, said no; what happens is that you sometimes like to play about... And move me: what do I think of the measures? From their organic law that they proposed in Congress, it's not; it's more: we coincided with all the parliamentary groups of Congress than not. From the law they proposed here and I had to pronounce myself, no. They propose another and we'll see it; if indeed that's what we're asking you to propose another. But, finally, do it! We don't agree, we ask them to propose another. And you say here: what do you think? I told him not to. But you guys in the alarm state, what? No, new tools and so on... This isn't a formula 1 or... are you in favour of extending the alarm state, yes or no? It's an easy question. About vaccination, I liked Mrs. Friend's triumphalist data. We're the second autonomous community -- if that's not what he said, correct me -- who has vaccinated more than 60 years -- I think he gave the data --. We are the second autonomous community that is more than 60 ten, and how they are distributed and evacuated by order and proportion, so we are the second! I'm going to give the People's Party another match for it. They may assume that Galicia is the autonomous community that more Welsh vaccine. I'm sure there's someone else who vaccinates him somewhere else, but Galicia must be the first. We'll avoid saying the things that...! Of course we're the ones who are most vaccinated because we're the ones who have the largest population. Who's going to vaccinate the larger population? Andalucía, what is the community with the youngest average age in Spain? It's just that we're in a debate that... finally. But there's one hundred and fifty thousand unpublished vaccines, don't forget, I didn't tell them in the first intervention because we understand that this is a little easier... Don't put those faces on me, it's on the website you just announced. One hundred and fifty thousand unpublished vaccines, one hundred and fifty thousand doses unpublished. Don't come to me now with the lack of stock because they're the same ones you weren't wearing when there were five hundred thousand places less. See if the stock will always be the same even if we put more people? But as we told everyone at first: it's quite right. And yes, it's everyone's credit. Mr. Counsellor said that of the municipalities to facilitate them, of Civil Protection and Emergency. Man, even if it's for a moment, the State Government too! It seems it costs them a little, it doesn't matter! It's okay. And all those involved, including the Galician Union, the Sergas particularly, but also emergency measures, the Town Councils and the State Government, the European Union... are reasonably well. And mistakes are also errors and we must understand them. On epidemiological measures, if we don't blame anyone in particular! We say issues feed the problems. For example, confrontation and hooliganism feed us. We didn't tell them this government would get people out of the street, but if we think there are opinions that make it difficult. You, Counselor, say, "When the weekend of the terraces" -- which you called it, it's a good name, so let us identify it -- you now say, well, we'll have something of merit in which things go well. On that weekend, it was the burden of the lodgers and the citizens. And at Christmas it was the citizens' fault; Mr. Feijó said so. And now it's the responsibility of people not to go out too far into the street. Well, you'll also have a good responsibility for people not going out the streets. But look if we're consistent, if you now have a good part of responsibility, that's all right; in the things that were wrong, too. Because we are not mistaken, because this is going to debate who points the merits and who carries the problems with others. And there you know that they are the champions of the world, there is no one who can do anything to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u48	So what we ask is that, in addition to confronting so much, they solve a little more, that the thing is good. And it's true: you have to be careful and with lead feet. But the thing is reasonably well within the drama. And it's important to give some hopeful news. We are left with that in a hundred days we may have seventy percent immunized. We think that's good news. We hope Sergas can keep doing things the way he's doing them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u50	...to keep the vaccination volume the same. And we wish them, as far as the measures are concerned, to be more loyal and a little loyal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u52	...even if it's sometimes wrong. They're a little wrong and they're loyal. You'll see how it's gonna get better! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u54	It was evidence that the People's Party is not in favour of having instruments to act. Clearly, she's not in favour of Galicia having the laws she considers to be useful to her; rather, she decides Madrid. But then Madrid decides how she wants, and these things happen. That's just the problem. When you don't want to be held responsible and when you don't want to have instruments, then you can't complain that others decide with the instruments we give them. You can't complain! Even if they are decisions, of course, that we consider erratic and wrong. But what's not worth saying is, we don't want them to decide there, but then when they decide, we don't like them, because it's very functional. [[Applause]] BNG is not against that Galicia has its own laws, and is against that the Government of the State is pursuing laws that pass this parliament, of course, even though they are laws with which we disagree, as this case is. What, of course, is not very reasonable is to let others make the decisions, but then to say that those decisions are not the right ones. Counsellor, you in the Vaccination Strategy and in the Greek Vaccination Plan are priorities that have not been met before AstraZeneca's application was suspended. Some groups had to be vaccinated and not vaccinated. I've given you a number of examples, such as drug addictions. But there are others, like, for example, dentistry students, who, when they're not vaccinated, suppose they lose a year; they lose a year because they can't practice. And that's your responsibility at most responsible for vaccination, because they were on a priority that you didn't carry out. And he spoke again about the health personnel who are giving him everything, but what he didn't talk about, what he didn't say is how to strengthen it, and how to increase it without saying anything. He's saying they're doing an impressive job; what he doesn't say is how to do so they don't have to be exhausted and what he's going to do to increase that number of professionals. And he doesn't accept BNG's proposal to allocate 204 million euros that he has to return the state to the EVI to target them for primary care. He says that's not the problem. But how is that not the problem? The problem is that you say it's not professional, it's about having them available. Of course, what concerns me, Counselor, is that they don't want to spend money or change their recruitment policy. He says the problem is having the professionals available. Look, this May month, the MIR, the EIR and so on. There's a very general comment that a very important part of these professionals will not stay. Why do you think they won't stay when they're so needed here? Why do you think the professionals who accept that continuity contract one year later don't repeat? What do you think, you don't like being in Galicia or working in Galicia? Or will it be as a result of your employment policy, which only offers you precarious contracts and without stability? Rather, I think it will be the consequence of that question. You don't like us talking about precaution, but you say that there are 60 hired people who have been awarded the contract at the end of this month and you say they're going to hire the required ones. When are you going to tell them? And what are necessary, Counsellor, to continue the vaccination process, the process of redeployment of activity, and the well-deserved rest that staff have to have? What were they needed? Do you think these aren't gonna be necessary? Are you going to tell them on the last day? He's upset and he doesn't like us talking about precaution! What is more than precaution having them so in definition until the last moment, not knowing what they can do about their lives, whether they're going to work for the next month or not? What do you call that situation in which professionals have? I call it precariousness and don't have the slightest consideration with them. Well, I told you before, in fact, there are issues that don't depend on the Greek Government, but that neither the German Government nor the People's Party want them to depend on. But there are other things you can do. The first one is to act in staff policy, which is obvious -- and today it's going back to showing -- that it doesn't want to act on that issue. The other thing is to carry out this process of vaccination with transparency and rigour that, of course, there is more than one pond. And the other one is to put in place measures that allow you to anticipate and act and go ahead of the virus; and one of them is an axile and efficient tracking system that we saw you claim at the BNG from the very first moment, as a fundamental part of fighting the virus, in order to be able to anticipate. Of course, we regret that you're still announcing here that you're putting in place that retro-strand plan to expand and strengthen that trace fourteen months after the pandemic has begun. Of course, we regretted it because we told you from the very first moment that there had to be an axil program, endowed with resources and expanding those tracks. And you're still doing a pilot test. Just as we demand the early isolation of positive people, without delay, the protection of these positive people, see if they have any possibilities and conditions to make these isolations, and the review of the quarantine periods, because the new variants are contagious longer... we still don't know how they're acting in that field. Perform PCR at the beginning and before the end of the quarantines, which are still not done systematically, but leaving them a little bit to volunteer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u56	...or the creation of a public system of epidemiological alerts equipped with stable personnel, where follow-up and sentinel points, tracking equipment, monitoring of waste water... There are many things that, of course, may be doing the German Government, which depend on the Greek Government and which is not doing them, of course, either with the speed or intensity that a pandemic of these characteristics or those that may come in need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u58	And it's very good to hide -- finished, Mr. President -- behind what others won't let him do, but it would be good if those who rely on the Greek Government would do it promptly and with agility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u60	Good morning again. Thank you very much, President. Again, thank you, Counselor. We cannot but celebrate the progress of this Sergas Assistance Reactivation Plan in the hospital area, with those 15 million euros, which we have already heard and today again put into value. Also from the People's Group we value this commitment to move towards about 60 percent of presence in primary care, which you announced in the past full and which is contained in Sergas' management agreements. And, of course, we don't understand the artificial controversy that certain groups want to build on this goal; especially because the same protesters now said nothing when we heard Mrs. Pontón claiming a week ago that that presence outside of 100 percent. We defend the professionalism of primary care staff always. Not only when it's appropriate to use them as an electoral weapon. In the past legislation, when they protested and had to make changes in primary school, Junta sat down with them looking for solutions, there was a primary plan, there were resources and there were commitments. And now, after the pandemic, of course, they will continue with the reforms. We praise the creation of this General Directorate for Health Reform, which will be able to have the necessary time, while the rest of Sergas' positions occupy their time in the pandemic, to talk to the professionals and design the set-up of those reforms in the functioning of the primary. So this group always argued that telephone care didn't in any case mean that the primary professional didn't work or that it didn't provide health care adjusted to the population. And we know that we have professionals on our side. Whenever the patient requires it, the appointment will be present. The patient calls, has a problem; if that problem is solved with the phone, it is done, and if not, it is quoted for presence. This isn't an important subject. Since 2013 he's been working this way. And these professionals had to do their job in tremendously difficult conditions, tremendously unimaginable, but Sergas gave them resources to do it. And this councilman and this group always defended them, while you defamed non-presenceal attention, which presented it as outrage. Mrs Prado, I ask you to be a little more committed and to be a little more respectful, because you can't talk about precariousness with continuity contracts of more than sixty thousand euros a year. We have to be committed to a lot of people who are suffering from it and are living in precarious conditions. Now there's a shared goal between administration and professionals to advance the recovery of that professionalism in cases where necessary, but of course not in that absurd hundred percent proposed by BNG. It's just that it's an insult to the work of professionals. Of course, it is absolutely ridiculous to make any insinuation about the lack of commitment by the Board to the wages conditions of the health personnel right this week, in which the first payment of the second degree recognition of the professional career that makes the Galician Health Service in three years is being received. A process that was maintained this year in spite of the pandemic and which is an investment of EUR 10 million this year, and another 10 million next year. This is a commitment to the working conditions of the health care staff. Just like the creation of these 300 sites committed to the 2019-2020 Primary Care Plan, which have been the more than 100 million euros invested in primary care infrastructures since 2009. The budgets of the Board this year doubled the investment of the Board in primary infrastructures, and when the advisor came to explain them, you questioned these investments. But a week ago, in the Health Committee they had to swallow their words because the manager of Sergas gave a review of how they are implementing each and every one of the commitments made in these budgets. And beyond the budgets, we also thank the advisor for the explanation of the next generation fund projects. In fact, some of us knew them already, because the economic advisor had them exposed, but the opposition said they were not transparent, because they didn't include those projects led by private initiative. In the case of the Health Council, they do appear, because all these projects are indeed of public initiative. And I'm done. Thank you very much, Counselor, for showing us once again a government that goes forward, a government that manages and works everywhere to fight this pandemic, not forgetting the other health challenges, because here we are the misfortune of suffering an opposition that has been paralyzed for many years, as if it were hypnotized with the same expired speech. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. García Comesaña has the floor for the doubling round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u62	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying that I didn't want to enter the data, but I won't be quiet when the right data isn't given. Look, here I have the report yesterday, the report of May 10, which corresponds to the data of May 9. Vaccines delivered in Galicia: 1,460,000; Vaccines administered in Galicia: 1,429,000. This is not the first statistic, Mr. Torrado, this is the first math. Here, if you do the rest... these are the official data. [[Applause]] Now you'll say, of course, but on the board page there are 100,000. Sure, because a hundred thousand vaccines arrived yesterday, Mr. Torrado. You think, of course, we can put them all on the day running, don't you? Of course, of course. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u64	Look, speaking of that, I hope we soon have the situation of having to vaccinate 100,000 doses a day. Yes, arriving a couple days earlier, Mr. Torrado, not arriving on the same Monday. But if they come, don't worry, we'll use them. Last week we put more than 50,000 vaccines a day, because that's how we put the two hundred sixty-six thousand I told you earlier. We have the capacity and we want to vaccinate everyone who can come. What I was saying, Mr. Torrado, is that that gentleman -- that I have no problem calling him -- President Sánchez, he should have learned from what it is to say one thing and then something else happens to you. Because it turns out the vaccine factories are closing. Go to FDA and shut down Janssen's factory in the United States. That's too bad! Then it will be Janssen's fault or the FDA, of course. Or he makes a contract with AstraZeneca that finally looks like -- we found out yesterday by the press -- that he's going to suspend the European Union. And it can happen with other vaccines. It was expected that the Novavax vaccine, the Purevax vaccine... vaccines are a very difficult process to develop, although some people seem to think that simply removing patents is arranged and we all do vaccines anywhere. Well, despite that, it's a complicated process. And it's unwise -- from my point of view and from the experience of these months, and also from the general medical experience -- to say that something is going to be like that, with that continuance. I wish, we'll be delighted to put a hundred thousand vaccines or two hundred thousand a day; we won't have any trouble with that. Regarding the subject of the alarm status, I already told you, Mr. Torrado, I will answer you as the People's Party did: alarm status, yes, if it's a pre-step to modify organic law. If organic law doesn't change, alarm status, no. It's pretty simple. And if I agree with you that citizenship is responsible. I don't think at any time I told you people hadn't come out the other day thanks to us. I think it was thanks to everyone, thanks to the way we're leading the situation in Galicia. I want to say thanks to the role of the inn, which was finally incorporating that speech that we all have to add and we all have to tell a person who is without a mask that has to put it on. And, of course, to the local police, and I also told the state security forces and bodies, that among all of us we were able to move the importance of measures. And to the Clinical Committee and the Galician Board, by facilitating those measures in which -- as we said before -- the hospitality was gradually opening up, with a series of measures and conditionings -- which, of course, made us refer to nationally -- how to incorporate the topic of air quality into the restoration sites, which we will extend to the rest of the premises and not only of the hostel, but also in other areas. Because this seems to us to be a line that will not only come well for the coronavirus, but will generally be positive for interactions in closed sites. And in that sense -- I repeat -- I think it was everyone's job. And so it has to continue, we have to keep working on moving forward in that difficult balance of economics and health. I used to ask someone about the concerts. Well, we'll have to move forward in certain normalization of processes. For example, people between health centres are being cared for when professionals and patients consider it appropriate, if they can have sports events and concerts as well. So what we have to fix is the conditions, work them and authorize them in this case for public health. Of course, we can't live in the bubble permanently, we have to go out, but we have to go out with care and with rules and with instructions and with regulations, which is what we don't have right now. In that sense, we're working with the sectors, with the nightlife sector, with the hospitality sector. Today we have a meeting with the hospitality sector to continue to advance in that increase, which, of course, will always be conditional on the epidemiological situation. Today with the situation we have, we have to keep moving in so that the hostel sites can be more open. Set the conditions. And that, no doubt, will avoid such situations that were seen in other autonomous communities. Probably here -- it said -- they didn't see each other, among other things, because our bars that day were open until 11:00 p.m., in security conditions that -- I repeat -- the lodgers are moving. Vaccination, as it has become clear here, progresses. Even you recognize it's going well. That's great. And we, of course, are delighted that it is. We put all the means, those contracts that we're making on a permanent basis so people can be vaccinating. We put everything we do, not only in the vaccination itself, but in the vaccination centers itself, in the logistics itself to send the doses... and in that sense, of course, there can be small dysfunctions there; I was already commenting on the first intervention last Sunday. But what we're not going to admit is that there are irregularities; not consciously, of course, and if we detect them, we correct them. To say that in a process of vaccination of the essential groups that was open, I hope we could vaccinate all the essentials in one day! but it could not be done, Mrs. Prado, and the essential groups were coming. We had a list of dentistry students, but when they were going to play that week, vaccination was suspended. You're the one who wants us to continue to vaccinate the same way. Yes, yes, Mrs. Prado. The groups were in progress. There's some SAF of some council that got interrupted by that process, there's some school that just starts tomorrow because we didn't have the lists. Of course, there were groups that were interrupted, but what we weren't going to do -- I repeat -- is with the vaccination of essentials suspended by mutual agreement in this case by all autonomous communities and the Ministry of Health making exceptions. Because that would be -- I think -- counterproductive. And with regard to continuing contracts. Well, Mrs. Friend has already said so, thank you for your words. The Galician Union is making an important effort in primary care. Probably not everything you have to do because it's impossible. We can't train family doctors from day to day, we can't address that availability of family doctors. What I'm telling you is that we're going to try and get all the family doctors who finish their specialty in Galicia this year to stay with us. Offering them what? By offering them stable contracts. A contract of up to three years' duration and a gross salary of EUR 62,000 per year, which involves two guards in the CAP. This may seem precarious to you, no doubt, but to me you have to let me express my opinion that precarious does not seem to me. It may seem to me very little, very much, depending on how it compares, but of course not. We haven't had this before, it's a tool that's been put in place a little while ago, that's working out and that people take these contracts; not everyone, of course, but I don't think it's because of precariousness, you'll have to see other reasons. And with regard to the nursing, well, you, when you talk about nursing, it's obvious that this disease was contracted in April or March last year and it goes on with us, and the pandemic, since April and March last year, fortunately, has gone down; it's also true that many times it's been up. None of the contracts of the professionals established in March last year ended. The pandemic has passed an important peak in January. We're in May, and none of the professionals who were in January are with us now; and I don't say the professionals, I say the jobs. Professionals have a system of arrival at these posts, which, of course, we respect, and the lists are used, as it couldn't be otherwise. But the posts that have been established, the contracts that have been established after the pandemic, have not changed. We don't know what's going to happen with the pandemic. I wish we had a magic bowl and we could say: June 10 doesn't need us. But no, as we don't know if we need it, for now contracts have been extended until May 31st. And I've just told you that contracts that are necessary, because, of course, we, at the moment, have to look after the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and not spend the money that is not necessary. We have a lot of recruitment needs related to the pandemic, but also, of course, related to the delayed care activity, to primary care -- which you yourself named -- or, as you said, to the holidays of health professionals. Well, depending on all that, it will be established in each health area if these contracts are kept as a cod when necessary. Right now we're talking about palm needs like vaccination, about the 45 people who are still in the ICU or about the 150 people who are still hospitalized on the plant, and all the evidence is being done daily, and, by way of comment, we can talk about evidence, PCR or antigen tests at airports. All of this consumes a lot of human resources. You don't get to this by taking Madrid from the statistics, you get to do a lot of tests, you make a lot of effort, and of course, you hire a lot of people and you don't need it when you don't need it. You were talking about tracking. It's just to talk now that in Galicia the tracking is bad, well... that 76% of the follow-up of the cases we have must be also casual -- by the Apostle you said you've been-- Look, the tracking system in Galicia is very good, it's a very good follow-up, and what I just moved there is a moment ago -- at best I didn't explain it very well, it might be -- it's not that tracking has worked badly and that we're going to update it after fourteen months, Mrs. Prado, but what I said is that, taking advantage of the capacity we have right now and the low incidence of cases, we're going to do a pilot test to trace not two days back, which is what marks the National Protocol, but seven days back. If this seems to you to correct and resolve after fourteen months of pandemic, perhaps you didn't understand anything. This is to take advantage of our diagnostic capacity, our good tracking system, of which we are frankly proud, that work -- I mean -- it's not a person of two or 200, it's a work of the whole collective. You're talking here about primary care and how important tracking is, that you have to put personal tracking, but now it turns out that tracking is not primary care. For all that tracking work I keep defending him; I think the tracking work in Galicia was commendable. Obviously, it's not easy to call a person and locate the contacts he has, to do the diagnostic tests... I think diagnostic tests are being made with an impressive speed in Galicia, ever since, and, except at some point in peaks of maximum incidence, it's a characteristic of the situation in Galicia. And what we're telling you now is that this condition will change. You've already asked the other day about the rise in quarantines. Look, the rise in quarantine -- I explained it that day, and I didn't do it before, but I updated it -- it's still as it is. The Ministry of Health considers that there is insufficient evidence, scientific evidence to increase quarantine to more than ten days, and we are doing so, because, of course, in Galicia we are not going to expand IT unilaterally. In Galicia we think it's 14 days of IT now and we put them on, we're also loyal here. And speaking of tracking, I really think this is an interesting test, which will give us information. So let's put on a variable that up until now wasn't put on, which was whether there was a mascarilla or not a contact mask, let's do the test and see if this excess of back-test produces an important diagnostic performance or, on the contrary, it produces an important performance of the unresponsive evidence in the detection of positive cases, which is a hypothesis of work that we're going to put on now. But that's not why I'm going to allow it to be said that the Joint finally modifies the tracking after fourteen months. No, that's not it, Mrs. Prado. It's a specific initiative that I told you, just like I told you about the effectiveness of the vaccine in vaccinated people -- nothing further than that. So I'm done, of course, thanking you for listening to this up-to-date information on both the pandemic situation and other aspects that we also consider important, because, in the end, it's not all coronavirus. Chronic patients, emergencies, time-dependent pathologies and cancers continue to produce, and the Greek health system is strong, and it continues to look after us all, and we believe that -- and so we say -- it's also taking into account the situation derived from the pandemic in a more remarkable way. Of course, playing with the data... I'm telling you that we vaccinate the population of more than 60. We're number two. It's funny, but number one isn't the autonomous community that has more than 60. You have to look at and review those statistics and math classes, too. I end -- I repeat -- thanking health workers for the effort they're making, and the whole society. I, in that sense, do consider that this situation we are living in is a fruit of everyone's work, and I highlight in particular the attitude of the host sector, so punished by the pandemic, of course, that it is at this time being also an important part in that progressive opening, always based on the epidemiological situation and trying to make those scenes that we all were upset in Galicia not produced this time either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u65	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to the third point of the agenda, motions. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact of the curfew-19 on hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u66	There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u67	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u68	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are proceeding with this motion arising from the interpellation of the previous plenary session, in which we asked the Social Policy Council for the following: first proposal, to prepare a detailed study with the corresponding research on the occurrence of major residences during the pandemic, as well as to make public and deliver to the parliamentary groups of this House the data on the number of deaths due to the fact that there is a large house in the homes individually individualized by each centre. This is not a whim, ladies and gentlemen. This week, all parliamentary groups in this House received a letter from Maria, the daughter of a woman who had died in a nursing home. Mary received a letter from the Galician Council in which she was claimed a pending debt with the administration for undue charge of 25 euros a February day in which her mother had already died. And today I want to serve as a speaker for Mary's sensitence by quoting her words, which make sense to request more than ever the data of deaths for cowardly per center. And I quote, textually, "I make them come, as such, the amount of 25 euros with 97 cents, corresponding to one day of February 2021. I want to inform you of the profound discomfort and sadness of this letter received from the Board when it came to my hands. The reason is not economic, as they may suspect, is a question of empathy and generosity. I comply with my obligations, just as my mother would do and so many older ones who left their last breath in this pandemic in the residences of Galicia. I could be the mother of any of you, but that doesn't count, because, in the end, the dead were just numbers and they're still being, as this bureaucratic missile proves they send me. Humanity and compassion seem to be not enough values in the policies of the Union to thank our seniors for a lifetime of effort, commitment and democratic values. If we're all where we are, it's thanks to them. You had more than a record of my mother's death in the Cegadi in Santiago, where she was transferred on February 1 by coronovirus infection, to finally die isolated in agony, like so many others and so on, without the heat of no child's farewell, on February 19 at 6:00 in the morning. The one who has no record is I, like any citizen, of no official record, with names or without names, of the people who died in the Welsh residences, and I don't even know if their friends and other residents who shared their lives with her for years are still alive or are no longer alive. I don't know, I don't know the official number or the record that my mother would hold on the extensive list of deaths in Galicia by coward. It's enough to die in such a cruel way as to bury them in the forgetfulness. No more, health." These are the words. Although she herself recognizes the correctness of the requirement and thus fulfils it, she also requests that the Union fulfil its obligations by providing the data that the families deserve, of course in the memory of the people who died in the residences. [[Applause]] It's the story, ladies and gentlemen, of the families of the older people who left their lives in houses for cowardice. We have 790 reasons to draw up a research report on what happened in the homes of older people during the pandemic, as well as to know the number of cases and deaths centred at the center, for two reasons mainly: for the memory and dignity of the deceased and their families, who have been claiming it for a long time, and, two because it involves a transparency exercise that would provide valuable information to work on the improvement of residential care centers, and, above all, to be more pre-prepared to a hypothetical similar situation in the future and armor the largest in Galicia. The data is in the hands of the German Government. We have asked him in every possible way and in accordance with the rules, and they are obliged to give them to the representatives of the citizenry or to report on why they do not. It is important to note that the reporting of autonomous communities to the State was cases of positive deaths in covid confirmed by PCR and deaths with compatible but no diagnostic symptoms; therefore, the Government must provide the data of deaths by copper centre to centre and deaths with symptoms compatible with covid but without diagnostic proof. Second proposal: to design a preventive protocol for specific infectious diseases for the homes of older people where a protocol for the evacuation of positive cases is explicit. Ladies and gentlemen, in the interpellation of the past full the social policy advisor the feeling he left in his speech was as surprising as it was because if you were talking about this subject, when in residences at that time there were no contagions that then, after a few days, unfortunately, it turns out that it is. And I wonder: Is it a good time for the German Government to want to run a quick run to see you about the 790 people who left their lives in residences without analyzing what happened in detail in the residences in Galicia? [[Applause]] But it was significant, in addition, the fact that the adviser assumes that the data were less bad than in other autonomous communities, referring to the data produced by the Higher Council of Scientific Research, the CSIC, and it is striking that in the same way that it refers to the CSIC data, it does not refer to the main conclusions of the report, institutional and organizational management of the residences of older persons of covid in Spain, difficulties and learning, elaborated within the framework of the project covered by the CSIC. In the same way, in October of last year, it was recommended -- and I quote textually-- that: "Derivation of patients covered-19 to other third-level centers. It should be noted that this measure has been considered by the interviewees in this study as one of the most relevant to contain outbreaks in residences. In addition, this measure allows the rest of residents to make a life more normal, which is very important to maintain their physical and mental health." In addition, in November of last year the State Secretariat, in the report on the reception of residences, indicated that --textually-- "Difting those affected by covid infection from residences to intermediate care centres is a strategy that has shown high effectiveness. So both the studies and the experts in the field, for example the Galician Society of Hieria and Xerontology, repeated over and over again that in Galicia all the positive old residences had to be evacuated for a public health issue and to avoid massive and abrupt strikes. Why didn't it be done in all cases with resources in Galicia? It's more obvious that the advisor avoids taking on the responsibilities he has to bear, preferring to blame him for not deriving all the positives of residences from the clinical criteria of doctors, in the words of his own counselor in the previous plenary. It seems regrettable, cowardly and totally irresponsible at the moment. It wasn't done when it was most necessary, and so we proposed from the beginning of the pandemic, without any listening. Therefore, we now propose that a preventive and specific protocol be developed for residences in cases of infectious diseases or in epidemic situations. Third proposal: significantly increase the social policy inspection teams to monitor the proper functioning of the centres until within two years, at least the average of Spain. There's a saying, ladies and gentlemen, "There's always an eye that sees everything." In the case of residences, the eyes they should see are those of the Social Policy Inspection, which, unfortunately, the Greek Government has without a sufficient staff. In fact, we can say that it is very poor, because, according to state data, it is the second autonomous community that has less technical; in particular, only seven to oversee the total residences in Galicia. And then, the best effort the advisor makes -- which, by the way, is counseling by second legislation and previously CEO of Majors -- is to come here and ask for a applause from these professionals, those of residences; when the curious thing is that Galicia is the second autonomous community with less personal inspection for the homes of larger and fewer percentages, curiously, of public squares that manage everything, comparing it with the rest of the state. The German government's mathematical formula is: the most privatization, the less inspection. This formula is equivalent to: free will in compliance with the regulations; detected, as if detected, the Board of Auditors in the famous report it transmitted in 2018. Fourth proposal: that it be prepared before the end of this year 2021 the new model of residences through a specific plan which is debated in Parliament in Galicia so that all the political forces that we have in the House can present our own approaches. We are concerned that there is so much secrecy about the advisory committee for the new residential model, when it's a central issue right now for our country. The citizenship we represent has the same right to participate in an approach of proposals vital to the new residential model and care that needs the elderly or dependent. These are coherent proposals, ladies and gentlemen, just, necessary; we cannot close our eyes and say that it has passed without more. We can't run a stubborn view, as the Greek Government intended through the Lady Counsellor's interpellation the full past. We didn't lose a minute without working to clarify what happened in the old residences, gentlemen. We do it for the older people, their families and all the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u69	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u70	Thank you, President. Good morning. Let us therefore support this proposal put forward by the Socialist Group. In many respects, some of the proposals included in this have also been gathered into initiatives that we have recently defended since our group. And to me what I would like -- to defend our position and above all support for the proposals on this motion by the BNG -- is to stop me in three aspects which I think motivate, justify or reason the vote in favour and make it quite difficult to argue against. Three aspects said: one is transparency and the right of access to public information, which is a fundamental right; the second is the right of participation -- of something of which Mrs Ortega was already speaking in her intervention -- and, thirdly, compliance with the obligation -- which is not a matter of will, but of obligation -- of the Administration to exercise this control and control work; and more importantly, in a context such as Greek, where 87% of senior residential squares are or are in the hands of private companies. He spoke of transparency and the right of access to public information, which is a fundamental right; and therefore of the publication of these data disaggregated by centres of evolution, of the complete sequence that left the pandemic and the cover-19 in our country, and, in particular, in the older Welsh residences, which concentrated -- as everybody knows -- 34% of the deaths in Galicia by or with a coward. It's data that only a week or fifteen days ago -- if I don't miss my memory -- we'd also defend ourselves from BNG in a non-law proposition that we've led to the 5th Commission: whether they've made public not only for the Galician Nationalist Block or the whole of the House, but as a fundamental right of the entire society of this country; first, for the media, which also have a function of control over their own governments, but also for the whole of the Galician and the Greeks, and, in particular, for the families and users who are still living in the largest centers in our country. The answer -- and now Mrs. Ortega also said it -- on the part of the Galician board oscillates between absolutely pilgrim arguments that you cannot supply or provide, through the Transparency Act, these data disaggregated by residential centers because Sergas would have to re-make the data with what it counts -- is an argument like anyone else to tell you that it is not and to give you the door in the locks, among other things, because it allows you the Transparency Law, the things as they are -- and, secondly, arguments no longer peregrine, but I think insulting when it is said in parliamentary headquarters, in response to a group and a Member, as was Mrs. Ortega, who -- as the advisor said -- "Go to Google, look for the data and add." Telling this to a parliament in which -- I insist and I won't get tired of saying it -- the national sovereignty of this country resides is an insult; it's an insult, but it's also a more evidence of your consideration in this House. [[Applause]] Go ahead, I hope, Mrs Ortega, that you have -- with all sincerity -- better luck at your initiative than the last one we have presented from our group, or that the answers you yourself have received from article 9, which you have requested. When someone insists so much on vetoing access and the right of access to public information is because he wants to hide something or because he doesn't want something to be known. Because, if everything is great, if there's no problem, if everything is done so well and there's nothing to hide, there's no reason to veto again and again not only the initiatives brought to this House, violating the rights of parliamentary groups, but also seeking under the stones arguments and justifications to prevent journalists, that the media -- who are a democratic right of this society -- also access by the Transparency Law. This, in addition, is one more example. I will not tire of repeating the course of obstacles that we had to go through the Parliamentary Group of the BNG and, in particular, my fellow Iago Tabares and I will be able to access the information requested through Article 9, as was the consultation of a very small part of the sanctioning files and inspection records, which are also public information because they have to do with the treatment of people, human beings -- not a road, people -- in residential centers in our country in its vast majority supported with public funds. And then you talk here and you're going to knock yourself out that in a law you include organs of control and participation as if, I don't know, it was the party of democracy. I was laughing at myself listening -- and then I'll stop more on this issue, too -- because you're going through the triumph of those participation and control organs. And to show, a button, this country's Public Audiovisual Media Act, first additional provision, with the creation of audiovisual authority. They'd be there for six months. They're almost ten years old and we're still waiting for her. And also the Social Services Act, which we are talking about now and which provides for the Galego Council of Social Welfare to be the space, the body of participation, in which the deliberation, debate and collective analysis of the society as a whole are the social policies of our country. I'm calling this, we were talking about transparency and participation, because -- Mrs Ortega said -- we're worried about the lack of information about that socio-sanitary committee that created Galliza ad hoc's board, aside from the law absolutely; she said she was concerned about the lack of information. We too are concerned, but the justification, the argument and the reason why things are done so we know them well because it's the water brand of the People's Party governments. When one pulls out of the sleeve an organ that does not have to do with legislation is to be able to give the debates in a teledirected manner and above all to decide who sits and who is not in the spaces where public policies and their results should be analyzed, and also to decide who sits and who is not when designing a new model of residences that the People's Party and Galician Union has already designed; that is, it's absolutely designed. It must have been about October 2020 when we brought this issue, among other things, the debate in this plenary, and we said so. The goal is to make it happen, but simply change some things so that everything is practically the same. It is this Galego Social Welfare Council which is provided for in Article 20 of the Social Services Act the higher consultative body and participation of the Greek social services system. And it is within it that debates and analyses must be given and proposals for the future, not only for the new model of residences, but for the new model of care for the elderly and the care we should put into effect in this country. Wanting to get the debates out of those organs -- I insist -- that's provided in the legislation has only one goal, which is that whoever sits on the table gives them reason, or, well, sit or silence them by answer and at least do not oppose a new model that -- I insist -- you have already designed. I was talking about transparency and participation, so thirdly, inspection. I'll go back to what I said at first. It is not a voluntary decision by any government but a legal obligation to comply with this task of supervision and inspection of public institutions and, in general, of all public services. But even more in a context like the Greek, where the old residence squares at 87 percent -- and we're going to talk a lot about this whole -- are private. It is therefore a matter of ensuring, with these inspections, the proper functioning of the centres, residences, and above all the scrupulously compliance with the rights of the people who reside in them. That's where the Inspectorate's role in the Social Policy Council is key. And that inspection and control work is not guaranteed when there are only seven inspectors for the entire area of dependence, not only for senior residences. It's seven people all over the country, for all the centers that depend on the area of older and dependency of the Galician Union. There's only half the way out, ladies and gentlemen, against the number of old residence squares. Only senior residences give an average of 2,788 squares per inspector or inspector. I insist, only in senior residences, that they have to inspect not only senior residences, but all services linked to that area of dependence. Only seven persons, only seven, make it materially impossible to comply with the supervisory obligations that the Board has and that inspection services must develop. And keeping these services like this, absolutely scalable -- if we talk about staff and workers, it's a political decision. Of course, then, what happens, which is impossible to maintain the necessary control, not only about the fulfilment of the conditions of administrative contracts and the most basic regulations on the care of older persons who reside in them, but also about ensuring that the irregularities detected are addressed. Of course, if an inspection finds that there are not enough direct attention personnel, that the ratios set by the regulations are broken, but then the Administration does not go through there in three years, then it is doing the work, which is an obligation -- I insist -- of the Administration itself to ensure the right attention and fundamental rights of the resident people? We've already told you since the BNG that you didn't. And this is something that the Board of Auditors finds in its 2018 Report. We're not talking about a shoe that's more or less worn out because it's been washed a lot, we're talking about direct attention staff that's directly linked to the conditions in which people living in senior homes live. I'm done saying what we've said so many times since BNG: we can't get out of this crisis through the same door as we go in, we can't do it. It's an obligation no longer political, but -- if you allow me -- ethics and morals, and all we see is that the Government and the People's Party are trying is that they go through the page, that there are no debates, that what we do -- as Mrs Ortega said -- whether we run a crazy view, as if nothing happened here; but what we've been living in the last 14 months in this country is not to cross our arms and make as if nothing happened. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u72	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. I want to start by thanking the permanent offers of collaboration that your lords make to improve the functioning and model of residences in Galicia, and I sincerely appreciate it. What I must regret is that your actions do not correspond to those words and that you insist permanently on questioning the performance that the Galician administration has developed in residences during the pandemic and that it has turned Galicia into the autonomous peninsula community with the best results of survival. It has been stated in the previous plenary that the explanation of this is that the coward arrived late to Galicia, and all this for denying that Galicia was the one who anticipated to fight the coward; he anticipated declaring the emergency health, buying respirators before he collapsed the market, hiring more personnel and creating interdepartmental commissions weeks before the coward arrived. Galicia was a pioneer -- and it seems that it bothers to count it -- in the creation of integrated residences, to which the infected move -- by the way, as well as hospitals -- following medical criteria exclusively. She was a pioneer in creating protocols that were subsequently updated, because we must remember that we were in the face of an unknown virus that we still don't know all of her behavior. And it must be remembered when the World Health Organization itself or Dr. Simón denied the contamination through aerosols, which was subsequently shown to be one of the main ways of infection. We were pioneers in the detection of the virus by analyzing waste water -- pioneers, by the way, in the whole of Europe -- as well as we were pioneers in the establishment of periodic crows, antigen tests and PCR tests, making the first permanent provision of residences and making weekly PCR seizures in these facilities. And we were also pioneers setting up intensive audit programs to ensure compliance with the protocols and protection measures in residences. The Board held 100 percent of Galician residences and intervened in those who lived in critical situations, following always healthy criteria, and 14 centres intervened. I have to regret that the professional and professional criteria for the transfer of residents to both intermediate centres and hospitals are being questioned because, Your Honor, all, absolutely all, the experts who came to the Reactivation Commission said that decisions should be made individually, taking account of the circumstances of each of these contagions in each of their residences. And you keep questioning that criterion, putting yours on the professional, and he says he defends the workers while attacking his decisions. To me, Your Honor, it certainly seems embarrassing. Look, while you're demanding all sorts of research and data in Galicia, they block out where they have responsibilities for any attempt to know the truth of what happened during the pandemic. A commission of inquiry was proposed in Congress, a commission in which the responsibilities of the Government of Spain, all the autonomous communities and the residence managers could be cleared. She's been locked up. They were asked for an independent audit by hundreds of professionals on the management of state and autonomous communities and agreed to the Interterritorial Commission, as Prime Minister Illa and then Minister Darius first announced. Do you know anything about that independent audit? In this same Parliament, in this House, we ask for the comparative data of residences in the various autonomous communities, not because we are interested in what they have done, but for the knowledge of this House. Maybe you know them, I don't have the data yet. It was the only document we asked the State for and we haven't been provided yet. But the truth is, in spite of this ignorance, of the facts if known if it can be learned that the Welsh residences had a better behaviour than those of the whole of Spain and Europe, without alarming, without triumphalism, simply being consistent with the data. We've had a percentage of deceased people compared to the number of existing squares that is the smallest in Spain. In Galicia 4 %, compared to 10 % of the rest of the Iberian peninsula. We are better than France, than Austria, than the United Kingdom, than Sweden, than the United States and the Netherlands. 34% said Mrs. Rodil of the victims of the coward were residents in Galicia -- or 33% I had-- In Spain there are 5 points plus 5 points plus 5. We are the community with lower mortality in Peninsula residences. And I told him, the lowest excess of mortality, just behind the Canary Islands, which, we'll all understand, has an exceptional situation. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a chart.]] You think this is random fruit. I read a fragment of the report that explains this data the other day. I read again today: "These excess mortality variations in residences between autonomous communities are a reflection of the management of the pandemic within and outside the residences. Many deaths could have been avoided if there had been a clear objective of reducing the likelihood of invasion of the virus in residences by protecting the larger population with a high risk of mortality in the event of infection. Spain was the least protected country for people over 70 years of age and for people whose home was a health centre. The lack of protection has caused preventable and premature deaths in all Spanish communities, but there are great differences between autonomous communities that distinguish the good from doing evil." Your Honor, these are not our words, they are the words of the experts, and they distinguish between doing good and doing bad. I think in view of the graphics they bring, the good thing to do about Galicia is simply indisputable. But, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia will continue to work and advance on the escalation of the pandemic prudently, taking into account the recommendations of a professional who in Galicia are known, of recognized prestige and who have been showing their worth for months. We were among the first communities to immunize residents, and this allowed us to take more permissive measures and depending on the positive progress of epidemiological data. Progressively, in fact, today you are authorized to leave 5 days a week and up to 4 hours each exit and also displacements to the home of the family, family members, with a minimum of 5 days, and return to the center, prior to PCR. Ladies and gentlemen, the vice president said it, and we share it: they have to go back to their kisses, they have to go back to their embraces, but what they have to stay is also prudence. Prudence cannot be abandoned, and in Galicia it is becoming a flag of prudence. The parliamentary group that represents most of them held their hand; they held their hand to build together a new model of care for our elders. I'm sorry to have to say that you confused this sincere offer with an empty check for demagogy; I'm sorry. You ask for a debate on the new residential model. We created a commission for that. At that commission to Junta, the Social Policy Council, sent a first report, a report on general lines of the new model of residences where three pillars were marked. Well, you'll find the report better or worse. I ask, how many contributions have you made regarding this report? None, absolutely none. Press rounds, yes; contributions in Parliament, no. You ask us to reach half the inspectors. I'm not saying there's no need to improve the inspection service, but don't say there are seven inspectors for the entire Social Policy department... No, no, no, seventeen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're seventeen inspectors and you can therefore consider it to be better, I'm not discussing it, I'm sure it's better, everything's better; but they're not seven, they're seventeen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're asked to do an investigation of what happened in the residences. It's agreed upon within the Interterritorial Commission, and it has to do the Government of Spain. Do it. If also they are included in that report necessarily all autonomous communities! Why don't they do it? But what is more, in that report that you haven't made any progress, if you inform them that Junta is, together with the University of Santiago de Compostela, making a report on the behaviour of cowardice in residences during the pandemic. I ask: there is a study that has to be conducted at the national level and another one that is being done in Galicia by the hand of the USC. Which one doesn't deserve their trust? Which one of them do you think will not fit the reality of what happened in the residences? Look, and the last thing is to ask for information. What the counselor told her was that she had already been facilitated on a daily basis, given the public interest throughout the pandemic. So what I wanted to translucent the counselor was that there was no will of concealment. Now, I have told you, too, in that debate that we had in the Commission, that in order for this data to be provided in a systematic manner, a number of procedures must be carried out, including deadlines and resources for third parties concerned. And you're the one who told me that man! because they paralyze him third parties. It's a legal obligation! But what are you asking, not to comply with the law? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because we have to comply with the Transparency Act and we must also comply with the Data Protection Act. And so that's what needs to be addressed. And they're told, when it's settled, they'll make it easier. And I've already told them and I've already told them that if anyone has to resolve the last decision, it's the Galician Union that will have all that data, because I told them then and I'll tell them today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u74	... -- finished already, president --. When all this is done, when this study is done, we'll see what each of us has done and each of us will report. I have the personal conviction based on all the data we know that Galicia will be well stopped from that examination and that the Greeks will be quite proud -- that we will never be satisfied -- of the behavior that we've all had during that tough pandemic, that we'll soon get over it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u76	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u77	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to exercise empathy and put myself in the position of the People's Party representative because it has to be a real role to have to go out here to defend the indefensible. It has to be a cardboard! [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that it is not true, that the data is in the hands of the Greek Government and that it has to bring them; that it is your duty and that it has to provide them. When a citizen's representative asks for them, the duty as a Government of Wales is to provide the data; otherwise, he is missing his duty. You know it perfectly well. I don't know how he can get out here and say the words we just heard. He said Galicia was a pioneer in the integrated residences. Of course, that was a good measure. But why were they not used in all positive cases in Galicia, lords of the People's Party? Why? And they've got a face to blame the doctors once again, just as the advisor did. What medical criteria are you talking about? It's a political decision-making responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It's a political decision! They don't hide behind professionals. [[Applause]] Because of responsibility, they stop impersonating professionals to get rid of guilt, because it's irresponsible, indecent and cowardly. If Galicia did the right thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why don't they bring the data? why don't they bring the data of deaths and the data of people in senior residences who had symptoms compatible but without diagnostic evidence, who are in their possession and who had the daily report of all the centers? Why don't you pass that data, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Coherence and decency, please! And he was also talking about the state. I'm going to remind you of something that's obvious, but it seems like they have no other way out, because they have to argue how they can. The Autonomous Community of Galicia -- the same as the rest, but in particular that of Galicia -- in accordance with Article 27.23 of the Statute of Autonomy for Galicia, in accordance with Article 148.1.20 of the Spanish Constitution, has exclusive competence in the field of social services and therefore the residences before, during and after the reception of the People's Party. Therefore, the investigator's report has to come from the hand of the Greek Government, which is who knows perfectly what happened in residences, which were the restrictions, whether the restrictions were to close older people inside their rooms or not, how much time a day and how many days, among other matters, if they were derived, how many cases, and how many did not result from integrated residences or hospitals remaining in residences. That information is in the possession of the German Government. So they have to do a research report to which Greek citizenship is entitled. I don't know what's funny about them. We're talking about a serious issue, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I don't think it's a cause for laughter. [[Murmurs.]] The counsellor's speech the past full agrees with the representative of the People's Party, who is now laughing. It was an unfortunate and sad attempt to run a tupido to see what happened in the residences in Galicia, trying to forget and pass the page, without even getting out of the pandemic and having no data on what happened in them. I told him and I repeat today: the coldness and pre-power to send Google to search for data that does not exist from a citizen's representative is not good for directing the social policies of this country, lords of the People's Party. This week we live new infections in residences and, fortunately, there have been no serious cases, and that also vaccinates the success of vaccines arriving in Galicia. But the Council's modus operandi has not changed. The German Government continued to act the same way. In fact, we had to relive the restrictive measures again, very hard, for example in Chantada, for not carrying out an evacuation protocol for all the positive ones that could prevent this confinement in people's rooms. It must be borne in mind that we are talking about the first core of immunized population that has been confined to residences for more than a year, and in recent months with very limited visits. From the first immunized core we expected, because, according to the media, the Association of Residential Workers in Galicia textually indicates that when they said that the Greek residences were 100 percent vaccinated, it was a lie. They need to clear this up. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] In my first speech I read the writing that sent us to all groups Mary, the daughter of a woman who had died in a nursing home. He spoke of empathy and generosity, but I added duty and responsibility. He spoke of the need, as a affected family member, to obtain the data that happened in the homes of older people to avoid relegating to forget the victims of this pandemic. It's a necessity and a duty we have with Greek citizenship. We need a research report, we need data from each centre, we need a preventive protocol, we need more personnel on inspection teams, we need to evaluate the consequences of restrictions on residents, we need more staff in residences and we need to scrupulously comply with the regulations, we need empathy, we need to put ourselves in place of families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u80	...two of the biggest residents in the centers. Ladies and gentlemen, one in three people who died throughout Galicia because of cowardice did so in a residence. We have to prepare ourselves so that it won't happen again, we have to shield the older people. They don't ask us to calm down because we're not going to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u81	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. About the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u82	...we won't get tired of insisting, because that won't happen. We'll continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u83	About the BNG amendment...? Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u84	Yes, we accept, Mr President, the amendment because it enriches our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u85	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the improvement of primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u86	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u87	Thank you, President. Well, we keep talking about primary care. The BNG brings here today a motion that derives from the interpellation made in the previous plenary to the Health Counsellor on the situation of primary care; an interpellation in which the advisor, as he has done today again, persists in giving due diligence to a primary care plan 2019-2021 which I have not assumed at all any progress, with an insufficient budgetary allocation before the pandemic, 2019, and, of course, far more insufficient yet. And the evidence that it's insufficient is that waiting lists are a constant, with times of waiting that in many health centers exceed two weeks, with waiting lists for presence care and waiting lists for telephone care; primary care with limitations to presence care and staff failure, when, precisely, primary care had to be characterized by accessibility and continuity. Restricted the present demand in health centers, it was a response to the pandemic for safety, to avoid infections, but also a consequence of the precarious human and structural resources due to the insufficiency of staff to respond and that we, from the BNG, consider that it cannot persist indefinitely, as much as the People's Party insists that telephone attention comes to stay, thus pretending to cover up the lack of professionals and attempting to replace this need of professionals with the telephone consultation. So at the first points of the motion that we present today, what we demand is that presenceal attention, 100 percent of the presence care of all those people who need it, 100 percent of the presenceal attention of all people who think they need that direct contact with their professionals, and to establish clear and unified protocols of application to primary care for all of Galicia. We believe that it is necessary for all the Greeks and all the Greeks to know under what conditions they can apply for presence attention and for uses to be restricted to telephone attention. We believe that it is necessary for a good quality of care and that it is necessary not to be confusing the population and that there are no difficulties and inequities that exist at this time to access that presence. And we believe that we need to guarantee telephone attention in time and form, and for that we need to increase the number of professionals needed to get that phone attention and that increase of telephone care, from phone calls to health centers -- there is a multiplicity of calls: call to request an appointment, then call for the doctor to make the appointment, call again to make a new appointment... if they get better. Obviously, and that's why you need new lines, better lines, and you need more professional ones, so that the population is being cared for. Because, as much as they try to turn questions around, the responsibility of resolving delays and the presence, in primary care, is that of Sergas; it's not a responsibility of the professionals or the professionals. And the lack of faceliness is not solved by imposing percentages or threatening staff to charge less. The presence is being taken care of by making resources and more personal. That's how it's guaranteed to do it, and not to blame professionals. And the Council has to guarantee this presence and remove that waiting list for both the presences and the telephones, because I insist that there are delays of up to two weeks at this time for a consultation to be held by telephone. And we have to solve this with plans for the recovery of face-to-face activity, with real agendas, not infinite or unpredictable, with agendas that allow people to be cared for by professionals with the time needed for that attention and with the resources and resolution capabilities needed to solve the problems of people who attend the consultations. The waiting lists in primary care, for face-to-face or telephone consultation, are not the fault of the professionals, they are consequence, as I said, of this increase in pandemic-related activity and that they have been added to previous needs; they are the consequence of saturated professionals working in conditions of uncertainty generated by care pressure; they are the result of the critical situation in which primary care was found before the pandemic and now multiplied; they are the result of having to direct a very important part of the already scarce existing resources for pandemic control, of having to respond to everything they had before, to the chronicity and all demand, increased by slaves, by vaccination, by the assistance of all people who go through the reception in their homes; they are the result of the policy and management of human resources of the Health Council, which is precarious to the working conditions and the obligation to march the professions of family medicine, pediatrics or nursing, which we have no collective concerns. He said the counsellor at the show that they can't form more professional, and what they do is put on a red carpet for those who have and are trained to march, so they can leave with the conditions they offer. I, of course, have been listening to or reading this new argument that introduced the new People's Party that family doctors are offered a contract with wages seems to be astronomical. I don't know if what the People's Party wants to say is what they have to work without charge; that is to say, they do their job without charge, because I can't find any other explanation to which the salaries of the professionals are publishing. In addition to the instability, it would only be necessary to be here today and tomorrow on the other side, if you don't know, to hire them from Monday to Friday, to do all this series of issues, which above all they want to work without charge! [[Applause]] Of course, it seems quite inexplicable. I've asked you before: if you think the conditions are so good, why do you think the staff is leaving? I'd like you to explain to us later, Mrs. People's Party, whether you're the one who will come to intervene in this motion, why there's not a huge majority of the professionals we train with money and resources from the Greeks and the Greeks, and whether you think it's about tourism or you don't know what things are. Of course, I insist, I think it has more to do with the working conditions offered by the People's Party since Galicia. And, of course, waiting lists are a consequence of non-replacement of missing professionals and that it continues to happen that a professional has to make substitutions and attend the consultation of several professionals. Of course, we believe it is urgent to implement a strategy that allows for normalizing primary care, which is not the same as returning to the situation prior to the pandemic, of interminable agendas and massification, but rather it is necessary to take means for primary care to have these professionals, resources and decision-making ability to meet the demands of the population, and to do so it is necessary, first, to have a diagnosis of what the situation is. That's why we demand in this motion a report to pick up the situation of the health centre, what is all that demand, all the professionals who are not replaced, all the professionals who are missing, all that effort that the professionals are making, what is the real time of delay to attend the consultations, but also the analysts and to meet the relationship of professionals who have not been replaced. Such information is needed and a human resources management plan is needed. It is necessary to know what we are dealing with, what is the situation of professionals, how many are going to retire, and when it is necessary to know that structural squares are covered with fixed personnel or any staff, what kind of eventuality, what kind of contracts to be able to take action in accordance with that situation. And the People's Party continues to insist, it continues without giving that information either at parliamentary headquarters or, of course, to the representatives of workers and workers, because there is a high percentage of hired people in public health. In some services, it's more the prospective and hired staff than the staff did; that's the reality of many places. And we've found that in the coming years, a lot of retirements will take place. For example, in the matrons, in the next four years, 75% of those in public health will be retired; in the next five years there will also be 30% of the existing doctors; and in nursing there is also a very important number of these staff who are going to retire. And for all that, you have to know what planning is going to be, as if you're going to restore that staff and the additional squares that need to be implemented by increasing demand. That's why we're calling for a plan to improve primary care that starts by modifying the Decree of Health Areas. Yes, we continue to demand primary care with budgetary decision-making capacity and resources, with our own leadership and with our own agencies. Because in order for primary care to be the backbone of the health system, as the People's Party says, it cannot be secondary to hospital health care, it has to have decision-making capacity, it has to have capacity for action, and for that it is also necessary to budget, it is necessary to increase budgets up to that 25% that all experts say it is necessary to have primary attention with these conditions of resolution. That's the budget. And, I insist again, they target the EUR 204 million of the return of EVI in full to primary care to put in place measures that solve the problems of primary care, because they are very well advertised, but ads that are not then supported in resources and measures are headline ads and then they don't sympathize with reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u89	It is necessary to increase the number of professionals in all categories, including cleaning staff; it is necessary to incorporate the portfolio of primary care services with essential categories to provide quality care and it is necessary to increase clinical psychology, since 30% of primary care consultations are mental health consultations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u91	You need to increase these professionals and set up the service portfolio of those professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u93	...so they can act independently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u95	...to visit the family doctor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u97	I look forward to voting in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u98	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I start, let me comment, and I can't help but talk about what we've been discussing this morning. A few minutes ago, Mr. Counselor said here and rebuked that the president of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, had said something like this, that in three months we would get the anticipated 70 percent vaccination figure; and he said -- because you can't be making cheerful announcements. Just in those very moments, in those very minutes, Mr. Feijóo was publicly announcing that he believed that in less than two months we could go without masks on the street. You're going to look very bad what Pedro Sánchez says, but it's going to look very good what Mr Feijóo says, and that's because you live in an unbearable hooliganism. And you need the comment to say that I wish you both were right. [[Applause]] With regard to today's motion on primary care, well, we're going to be in favour of today's motion on BNG, as we're usually in favour of all the measures proposed here for the improvement of primary care. It's true, as BNG knows, that we share a good part of the diagnosis. In some things we may have some questions of nuance, but that nuance we may have on this motion, in terms of concretion or orientation, does not have the entity enough to support it or even without an amendment. Because we believe that the defense that BNG makes of primary care, in general terms, is linked to what it comes to doing a lot of citizenship and a lot of professionals. And, of course, we believe that some of the objective issues are also collected there. We have our proposals, in some of the more concrete things, other more mature things, as we say, but in general, we share it. Why? Because primary care is probably right now the central problem we have in our health system. And we say the central problem because, necessarily, the most powerful level of care should have, because that's probably what most problems suffer from Sergas' management. And it's not from now on, but it was already prepandemic; it was prepandemic for many years; and now we simply see the things we've been announcing for a long time. In the pandemic, in addition, primary care played a key role. It was absolutely resolute, it had to face a situation of uncertainty; of uncertainty for professionals. And, finally, citizenship comes or tries to consult first of all its primary health care doctors or doctors and health care professionals. And these were seen -- often without tools -- with the first squabbling plans that they were thought to have to do, but without consulting them, and with decisions that Sergas made about the health centers in which they were not consulted either. In the end, they looked out of decision-making, but having to run some questions that they or they themselves posed as very difficult but for which no one actually heard them. Fruit of that, for example, are the management agreements, the bad ones called "management agreements," because you know the term "management agreement," and the last thing you think is that it's not an agreement -- this is a curiosity; the euphemism of words is fantastic -- Management agreements are called, but they are drafted in the Council and sent to professionals, who cannot negotiate them; they are a management tax. And what we were thinking, first of all, is that the last mismanagement agreements that were proposed are removed. Why? Because they're blaming professionals for their problems, and that's not acceptable. Primary professionals do commendable work, all of them, and it's not enough to say it here; what we have to do is put fewer flowers and more chapter I. This is the reality of management. Why? Because if, in the end, what we're moving and what we're moving -- or trying it out of the Council or Sergas -- in this government Feijóo is saying there's not as much attention and presence as citizenship wants because professionals don't want it, what they're doing is throwing the ball on their roof, and that's unacceptable. Primary care has problems, but, in view of the possible solution or possible referral of some ideas, some new models, we've been listening to the system reformulation for years. And the truth is that system reformulation is like the wolf's story: if we talk about reformulation so much, but it never comes, maybe one day there's a change and nobody realizes, because, in the end, the reality is that for years we've seen how documents are prepared and working groups convened. You know what about: If you want something to go wrong, create a commission. Sergas created fifteen -- it's not a random data -- fifteen at a time. If you want something not to work, call a commission; and when you call fifteen, it's a statement of intent too. In the end, it's all written. The question -- that they transfer it to the professionals, and to Sergas they also transfer it, but the problem of Sergas is that he wants to delay the solution -- the problem, he doesn't know what to do. We all know what to do with primary care, but the question is about it. It's natural in a conservative party to preserve, but just as in this case there had to be a little less conservative. What's the problem with primary care? The problem with primary care is that no one has answered it in recent years how it deserves primary care to pay attention to citizenship as it deserves. And where's the problem? The problem is that it's an attention with a medically "centred" level, absolutely "medicine-centred" level. The doctor or the doctor does: screening staff -- because it's the first person to contact people and you have to decide who they belong to -- you have to coordinate the hours of the rest of the team professionals, you do administrative work, you do a lot of accompaniment work, follow-up work, you do on many occasions mental health work -- you don't have to -- you'll end up asking the doctors and doctors to clean the health center and those who open the door, because you're asking them so many things that the last thing they can do on many occasions is clinical. What is the real model of primary care? It's a model -- as the documents you already have -- a document, that exists, developed; a system analysis for primary vertebrate health care. That's what we shared and said here, from the very first moment, that we shared. Our group and I, as a health spokesman in my group, had the opportunity to bring this Parliament and say that we would support any primary care planning that would shift the current situation to a future situation that would lead to that path, to that path that would produce a document, a model or a work that we have said a lot, a long time: that we need a specific primary care address with budgeting and management capacity, not none, as it has been at any time, or non-existent, as it was until recently. We need primary care addresses that have budgets and management capacity. For what? So they can make decisions based on primary needs. What do we need in the health centers? We need multidisciplinary teams. This is a fantastic term, it goes for everything: "multidisciplinary teams". Everyone repeats it, but what does it mean for Sergas? -- which looks like Sergas needs fifteen commissions to find out --. So it means that doctors and doctors do clinical work on medicine, but nurses and nurses develop their entire training -- which is a lot, which is very broad -- to do a huge job, that they can do; that we have a real number of physiotherapy squares in health centers; that we have a connection to mental health services, because they are an element, a decisive factor, in the ability to solve problems that affect and that by somatization end up in mental health problems or in primary care problems. Because of the symptomatology or the sensations that patients have, they're not as easy to detect on many occasions as whether they're mental health or not. And we need administrative. Here, in the past legislation, a public party health spokesman almost tried to underestimate that I had said one of the solutions was the administrative. Of course I am. I'm talking about administrative staff trained in the management of the health system. Why? Because almost 30% of the work of doctors and doctors is in bureaucratic areas: it's computerized, it's passing data... If we release them from that job with professionals who know how to do it perfectly, we're making 30% of the work of our doctors and doctors. So we need a model, really, with professionals of choice -- the figure of the professional of choice in health centers is necessary -- and we really need more personal. Why? Because if we have more personnel in primary school, we multiply the resolution capacity, and by multiplying the resolution capacity of the primary school system, we defuse hospitals, which can be more clearly dedicated to solving the problems that need specialization and not to shed it with their work and their emergency capacity and day to day. We need to take care of the emergencies, but we need the system to meet something more than the emergencies. We're going after needs. In the end, this system is reacting well to professionals, but in spite of their leaders. This can't happen again; we already have possible solutions. Of course it's a question of more resources, but it's also a question of better organization, of training facilities, of extending the possibilities of requesting diagnostic evidence and of primary professionals having the ability to decide, which they don't now have, because they don't have everything they deserve. The health centers can't be inundated bags where everyone goes, and finally the one who decides at some point, who goes to the hospital, and there we'll see. Health care centers are not bottomless bags, we can't work that way. We can double shifts, but we have to work well with the professionals, pay them right. We need more professionals, and for that we might well have occupied all the MIR squares that we had the opportunity to occupy in Galicia. You know what's going on? Since 2009 there have been 150 MIR squares for Family and Community Medicine in Galicia that have not been covered, that could be sued and not covered. Why? By a political decision, because this government has decided not to call all. And in the accumulation there are 150 primary doctors and doctors who today could have been trained in Galicia and who are not. What happens next when they form? It does not reach 20 % the stable recruitment of primary physicians and doctors. Because five years after the end of primary IRM only 20% at most -- depending on the year -- they're hired in a stable way in Galicia's public health system. The rest, or 80%, where are they? Out, repeating the MIR, or working in private. This system is not acceptable where we have a shortage of professionals when we are disparaging professionals, moving professionals and sending them out with contracts that are not acceptable. Because it's not possible to talk about stability with one year's contracts, it's not possible to talk about stability with contracts that don't tell you where you're going to work tomorrow, and it's not possible to talk about stability when the system needs professionals, there are professionals, and the system doesn't hire them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u101	So it's written what we need in primary school, you just have to get started, but there Sergas has shown -- and this government Feijóo has shown several times -- that, knowing what to do, he doesn't want to do it, and that's not a technical matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u103	...it's a political decision, your political decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u104	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u105	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Twelve years have passed since the People's Party took the rents of public health; twelve years of management, improvement and growth. We're still growing, despite the fact that the economic situation was very critical and complicated in the last few decades -- we're talking about the year 2009 -- and also at this moment, with an unthinkable situation. We never imagined that the arrival of this pandemic would change our lives in all areas, both social and economic and health. In recent months, they have made it necessary to modify all the forecasts and organisation in the field of health, and there was the Galician Union. Nevertheless, in Galicia this year we have an budget that has increased in primary care by 11.2 % and which accounts for 31.2 % of the overall budget of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets are public. Get that old mantra out of the cuts already. EUR 100 million has been invested in primary care infrastructure since 2009. Mrs. Prado, your motion asks for plans. We have a board that deals with and cares about the problems and tensions that arise in health care. Already before the pandemic, in 2019, under the management of the former advisor, problems were detected in primary care, and solutions were sought. He worked on a plan for primary care, a plan that was agreed with primary professionals, and the objectives were agreed with them. This plan responds to the need to modify the forms of work of the organization, to increase the pathologies to be treated, to the complexity of these and to pluripathology, as needs have changed. We live in a community with a very old population, and care models also have to adapt to times. And that's how it was understood. There were 10 working groups, Mr. Torrado; groups working with 123 professionals, besides also professional schools and scientific societies, especially those of primary care. There were 7 strategic lines and 52 targets, 200 priority actions were made, and of these 100 % of short-term shares are started and 96 % completed; and 88 % of medium-term shares 88 % are started and 32 % are already completed. All this, ladies and gentlemen, immersed in a pandemic that made it very difficult to move forward in certain matters. 100 % of the 45 new squares created in 2019 and 80 % of the 112 squares created in 2020 were covered. And right now, it's in process to cover 161 new squares created in 2021. I'm talking about human resources. In total, ladies and gentlemen, 309 new squares in primary care, which was an investment of 8.6 million euros executed also in primary care. For follow-up to the plan is counted with a primary care technical council, an independent group of experts to verify that the steps that have been set by the Greek working groups are being taken, those that you question. At the same time, the Health Council also developed the objectives set through the document By a primary vertebrate health system, developed by 16 independent experts in primary care. The document advocates greater autonomy of centres and also bets on innovating and managing human resources at the local level, as well as allowing new allocations of functions among professionals, and also on improving demand management towards better monitoring, in order to optimize resources better. In addition, it proposes the empowerment of the figures of the heads and service coordinators. Both the plan and the vertebrate document have as their common objective the strengthening of primary care. By the way, a purpose also set by President Feijóo on several occasions. Within the framework of both the plan and the vertebrate document, Sergas is now analysing with the different health areas a base document for future local health plans that would approve each primary service and that must have a specific project adapted to the needs of the entire territory, because one cannot be done for all of Galicia, because each territory has its own needs, and it has nothing to see a health center in the center of the Coruña with a mountain of Cervantes, for example. In these documents and in these specific projects, medium-term targets will be raised, including those to be included -- and it is planned -- to reduce the saturation of agendas, the approach to demand management and the relationship between primary, hospital, social services and the community. Both the plan and the vertebrate document have as their common objective the strengthening of primary care. And they wonder why the staff leaves. Well, look, there are stability contracts here, there are some OPEs that are called annually, but when you do the residence in a place, you're free to stay in that place or go back to your... money as well. [[Murmurs.]] I've talked about that before, which makes you feel very precarious, these €62,500 contracts a year. I, of course, don't understand that as a precarious thing, but well... You're still talking about presence and phone call. There was the 40% target at the end of last year, a target that was met. Now that's 60 percent. And I don't know... well, I'm going to repeat it, you want that 100 percent presence. Well, it can't be that way, because we're living in pandemic times and, I've already said, since 2013 we've been working on the phone appointment and there's a lot of issues that -- believe me because I live them -- that are solved by a telephone quote and that patients welcome it. Because I, when I just want to see a patient's analysis, don't need to come from Meira to Lugo so I can see the analysis, perhaps, by phone, and he likes it. But when you have a health problem, any doctor who works at any point in this country, if the patient tells you he has to see it, I see. That's right. Of course, no one remains unattended, and we're not going any more about it, because it's so. We also have to say that this creation of the General Directorate for Health Reform is very important because from then on you will be able to have time -- while the rest of Sergas' positions occupy their time in the pandemic -- in order to be able to talk to the professionals, and you will be able to design the implementation of these reforms in the functioning of primary. Of course, the Union's commitment is clear, I said it before. They're talking about wage terms in a week that started that career that's going to be charged this month, that's 10 million euros this year and that's 10 for next year. We also know that primary professionals, when they have the institutional support of the health system, have been able to meet the goals marked every year, even in the most adverse situations. Further progress is being made on that plan with the provision of more squares, more mediums in the development of document goals by a primary vertebrator in the health system. And contributing to the early implementation of these conclusions is one of the fundamental objectives of the creation of this new Directorate-General for Health Planning and Reform. The regulatory order is also being processed for the dispensation of health products by the nursing staff, who have also been talking here about implementing new nursing actions. We have a qualified nursing facility, which can already make continuity prescriptions, dose changes and prescription ends. It's also working on the deburocratization of the work of the optional, and the goal is to increase the administrative levels of the health centre. To do this, this level will have to take a new key role in classifying administrative demand to improve the organization of centres. There are multiple ways in which you're already working on and where you're going to move forward towards primary reference care and see your skills increased. We're working, groups and commissions are working, I think we should trust professionals more. We, of course, trust the health system we have. We have to make constructive criticism, I've said it more times. I think we should value the improvements, praise the reforms and make coherent approaches that serve to add up. We, Mrs Prado, are not going to vote for you, because we think that many of the things you are asking for are already being done, that you are working on that line, and others you are asking for cannot share them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u107	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for the vote in favour of this motion brought here today by the Nationalist Block Galego. The reality is that primary attention is in the situation of deterioration where the People's Party wants it to be, and that's why they've been working hard all these years. Because what needs to be done in primary care has to be said by active and passive. The conclusions of the Technical Council groups are clear on this matter and they go in the direction of the issues that the BNG demands here today, because the motion we present is a consequence of having talked to the professionals to see what their demands were and also see what the Greek population needs. I want to make a couple of clarifications, Madam. Primary care grew in the budget, in this budget of 2021, quite below what increased hospital care, and considering that it went from far below the hospital care, because they made many more cuts in primary care. That difference is quite evidenced by what is the roadmap of the People's Party, which is to continue to focus efforts on hospital care rather than primary care. And, look, primary care is not even 15 percent of the budget. You draw some numbers here and repeat them insistently. Of course, reality doesn't spoil the headline. You repeat it insistently even if then the numbers don't fit, but it doesn't matter, we repeat it and it's done. And, look, another little thing, with respect to professional career, it's clear also what the People's Party's will is, isn't it? Facing the population with the professionals one day and another day about how much they charge. Look, the career was agreed on in 2005. You guys took fifteen years to make it effective. I mean, they're late in those payments, and now they're assuming that in the middle of the pandemic they're doing the consolidation of their professional career, when it's something they had to do fifteen years ago; i.e., they've been in debt for fifteen years. Fifteen years of debt! [[Applause]] Yes, that's reality, just as they were crippled by other wage rights and working conditions in 2010 and still haven't recovered them. I insist that it is evidence that the intention of the People's Party is that primary care is becoming less and less resolute and that the population is doing what it is doing right now, which is going in mass to make private insurance or to go to private health, for lack of attention in public health. That's their constant and permanent work, because we've been claiming for years a plan to improve primary care, and, far from that, what they've done was to eliminate jobs, not rest them, eliminate excesses and ability to lead and resolve primary care, so necessary to really put it into value and eliminate the clinical capacity of many professionals with many difficulties in establishing relation to specialized care. You're having difficulty with those, of course -- we repeat once again -- if they opened their seams more during the pandemic. And, of course, the People's Party, when it says that the health of the future is the telephone consultation for -- I still insist -- yes, the president of the board is not tired of saying that the health of the future is the technology, as if to meet the technology and the telephone care they didn't need professionally, to dump the data and to spend time, even if it's on the phone, the patients, and as if the technology would work alone to the edge of the need of the professionals, and it's not so. As much as you insist, this situation in which primary care is a risk to the attention of the population. I repeat to them what I told the counsellor in the inquiry: the BNG doesn't say, so says the Galician Bioethics Council, which says that the deterioration and loss of quality by this non-presentity is manifest, and that the rule of gold of primary care must be the presence of attention. That's what anyone who wants quality health care says. You guys persist in putting a percentage of presence, I don't know why. They speak of 60%, 30% or 40%. Depending on what? What are the studies that determine that 60% of presence is the right quota for quality healthcare? Absolutely no study determines that. The face-to-face quality attention is the one given to that person who needs it, and that's what we've seen demanding here us and the professionals. That's right! [[Applause]] Why a percentage? On what basis is that percentage established? On the basis of the criterion that they want to follow this situation of few professionals and with health care in primary care of low quality. That's the reality. And today you're going to vote against that presence, you're going to vote against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u109	...that there is more budget, they will vote against the size of primary care staff with essential categories. It's possible to do it immediately because there's enough professionals on the recruitment lists to do it, I insist, clinical psychologists, occupational therapists... there's a whole series of professionals needed. Or you can also implement the service wallets of other professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u111	...unthinkable, as physical therapists, so that it doesn't go through everything optional.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u113	The reality is, you don't want to. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u114	Thank you. Your time is up. We suspended until 4:30, four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u115	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the transfer to Galicia of pending competences
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u116	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u117	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u118	Good afternoon. Let's start the afternoon session, if you like. What happened? [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] For we are going to start, and in this debate about transfers, about competences, we can say that there is an exchange of roles: the BNG is the party of the Government, it is the party of the proposal, and the People's Party is the party of the opposition. It turns out that in these times we see how the BNG constantly brings initiatives, it can push various initiatives, and what the People's Party is doing, being ruling, is putting poles on the wheels so that these initiatives don't move forward, to make it difficult, to delay them; even they come to the extreme of supporting here things that later veto and vote in Madrid. We can put a lot of examples of this that we are saying, but the example par excellence is that of AP-9: as the BNG says it took the flag of this claim and this transfer and as the People's Party systematically vetoed it up to three times in the Congress of Deputies, either by the veto of the Bureau or by counter-government reports. The same can be said of the transfer of traffic, which we are now with that open debate, or with the same Welsh police, with the development of this competition systematically trapped by the People's Party. And besides, as we have already said in the previous plenary session, reality is overwhelming and overwhelming. And the best balance of this position of opposition, of trapping, of poles on the wheels of the People's Party is the twelve years of government in the board of Galicia, the balance of these twelve years: of zero transfers, of absolute paralysis and of cessation of functions when claiming not only the agreements of the Government itself, but also the agreements of this Parliament. And we have seen over this time how Galicia has been behind other communities, not only from historical nationalists -- called so in the Constitution -- but also from the regions. One thing has become clear after all this time, and the People's Party does not believe in self-government. They don't want self-government anymore, and we can even say that it seems to them too much. They made this clear in the 2019 electoral programme, when they put it in print: "We will approve a moratorium that will paralyze the decision of competences to the autonomous communities." Mr. Married said that of "This no longer survives, the nation must be strengthened." But, of course, this is not only the official position of the Central People's Party, of the People's Party of Madrid, but the German People's Party also made a declaration of obedience, of submission to Madrid, because they act like the puppets of Pablo Casado and the Madrid PP. They are teledirected with remote command from Madrid, and that's why Mr. Fexóo said what "Spain is not about to make transfers to autonomous communities." Hurry up! Are we or are we not for transfers? They say once and for all the truth, that you don't want any more transfers because you're the one that comes at the very best of all is that of "healthy and well understood regionnalism," which was said at the time of franchise. More than that don't happen. You guys, look, until they're big on the Statute. You don't even claim statutory powers, and you don't even claim the status of historical nationality, which was -- let's remember -- recognized in the Constitution thanks to the struggle of so many people who fought for having a Statute in 1936, which has never been approved, by the way, ever. And we know why it never got approved, but it was the basis for Galicia to have this status. If Brañas raised his head, they'd have some good beatings on you with all this they're defending, and they still dare to invoke Alfredo Brañas' name. Well, now we're at a different moment, at a new moment, which is a complex moment, a difficult moment of a serious crisis, but at the same time it's a moment of opportunity to put in place major reforms and major transformations, as well as major political transformations. It's a time, in addition, which is marked by two trends, which are two antagonistic trends: on the one hand, a trend that is proper to all crises, recentralization, the tendency to greater centralization, a concentration of wealth and a centralization of power. That is the sign of all crises, and that is what we are experiencing, in addition to a very recent crisis, in 2008, which served as a pretext for a great concentration and re-centralisation operation, invoking, among other matters, something that they now invoke in the plan sent to the European Union: the sacrosanct market unit, which looks like a "unit of destiny in the universal." And we already know that where it led us, by the way, and how we came to this crisis, in the case of public services, for example, right? At the same time, a process of transfer to autonomous communities is open, and necessarily associated with it is a debate on the reformulation of the State structure. Negotiations are under way for transfers -- some already implemented -- of competences to the Basque Country -- Euskadi --. In these days it is said in particular that the transfer of competence in prison matters is being managed, as well as in social security matters, they have already achieved transfers in the area of highways, which were owned by the State... finally, a wide package of transfers is being negotiated with the central government with Euskadi. Also in the case of Nafarroa, with competence in traffic and other competences. Or the case of Canarias, who is demanding and managing the transfer of back powers. By the way, back competences that have been on Andalusia or Catalonia for many years and that don't have Galicia, despite having 2,000 miles of coastline. And you know why we don't have the back skills even though you're now claiming them? Because the Galician Union didn't ask for them, it didn't demand them, it didn't demand them; in twelve years it didn't ask for these powers and that's why we don't have the back powers. And now you ask for skills, and you know why this is? Because it's the best way to defend the interests of Ence. That's the only reason for this demand that came to you at the last minute, to ask for competences in the field of sea and sea-terrestrial public domain. In recent times progress has been made in the field of transfers, the demand for transfers, and agreements have been made. It's the subject of the 23rd January agreement, it's also the subject of the demand for traffic competitions, which you have let the procedure be admitted without any conviction and now they're putting poles on the wheels, and we've seen these days the show also of these beatings, those criticisms that have been received by Civil Guard associations. You had no choice but to have to receive them here, but secretly, because it was a clandestine meeting that you didn't even make public, that was made public by the Civil Guard's own collectives. Yeah, yeah, yeah, on Twitter, but it wasn't on the Popular Party agenda. [[Murmurs.]] What are you ashamed of? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you ashamed to receive representatives of the Civil Guard? Look, let's say one thing: don't worry, don't worry about the Civil Guard, don't worry about traffic transfers, don't worry, it's gonna be better for Galicia to have the traffic competitions and have a police officer of its own, and the gates of that own Galician police are open to everyone who wants to access the roads to form that own police body, but not a successor. [[Applause]] Look, of course this is a starting point, but we want more, Galicia needs more, needs decision-making capacity. It is not a political intelligence, it is a material need to have more resources, to have more means to manage better, to have more means to have better public services, to have a decision-making capacity in matters affecting us, for example, with regard to the European Union, to have a financing system that is also serving the needs of the country, to be able to manage industrial policy or energy policy. We need that capacity for decision-making and real intervention. And finally, as we've done, or as I've done other times, saying something that's an unquestionable truth. Galicia is a great country. We are a rich country, which has enormous potential, that we have enormous capabilities that cannot be developed by the pitfalls of centralism and political dependence and also by the weights, by the mental pitfalls of conformism and the complexes of inferiority, and BNG will continue to work day by day to achieve progress that is small, large, medium or symbolic but that is to sit with the nations that are now going ahead of us, but also because we need, at this critical time, to imagine and build a future, a future of well-being, prosperity and social justice that Galicia deserves and that can be summed up in an old motto every day more current: "We rule our land."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u119	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Prado
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an initiative on the transfer of pending competences to Galicia, and the first thing we have to say is that we respect the Constitution, the Statute and the autonomous regulatory framework for gaining more and better self-government in accordance with our constitutional status of historical nationality. But, Mr Bará, we must distinguish between the demands that are urgent and those that are important. The Vice-President has already explained this in the full past first, that we want to move forward in the defence of a real and useful self-government, but according to an orderly plan and setting priorities. You only propose the transfer of competences, but Galicia's needs go far beyond the transfer of competences. We consider it more timely to claim what is urgent for Galicia. And you know what's urgent for Galicia? For Galicia is urgent for the state to return 204 million of the EVV liquidations of 2017, which now ends the Supreme Court by ratifying that in them. [[Applause]] The Supreme Court has just given once again the reason to the Government of Galicia and to deny Mr. Knight junior, who defended the positions of Ferraz -- not the best for Galicia, eh!, the positions of the Government of Spain -- and said that the Ministry of Business acted in accordance with the legal procedures established. As you can see, the Supreme Court is not of the same opinion. And he said that this had to be solved through self-financing or through the budget. As you can see, the Supreme Court is not of the same opinion. And while the Socialist Party here abstained from voting, in Madrid they voted against, not one or two; three times they voted against returning this VAT money, which now the Supreme Court tells us they have to pay us. They voted against 11 February 2020 at the Congress of Deputies on 30 June of that same year, but also at the Senate on 12 February 2020. Three times against Galicia, socialist gentlemen. They're not fooling anyone! [[Applause]] You can't fool everyone all the time; they no longer have credibility bonuses. What the Supreme Court said to the Government of Spain is that it cannot do what it wants with the money of the Greeks, which could not be the money of the VAT. Just like the mayors told him that he couldn't sit on those 15,000 million leftovers, that Mr. Senior Knight intended to steal all the municipalities of Spain. "Two Knights and a destiny. Ferraz." Look, we consider it urgent for the State to grant Galicia dues to our autonomous community; debts that have already been claimed from this House, Mr Bará. For example: incentives to comply with the rules of expenditure and deficit, EUR 170 million -- even in those who are indebted, socialist gentlemen -- transfers to employment policies -- that money paid to unemployed people for training courses and their diets to attend these courses; more than a hundred million euros that the Government of Spain stole from Galicia's unemployed -- and departures from the Housing Plan, which, of course, were already committed and which the Government of Spain also stole from Galicia. Mr Bará, Galicia has achieved over these years a level of transfer of competences that places us as the third autonomous community with the most accomplished transfers: a total of 154 transfers since 1978; only surpassed by Catalonia, with 190, and Andalusia, with 155. And it's true that over these years the transfer activity has slowed down, but not only in Galicia. See, of the 2,000 transfers made by the Central Government to autonomous communities since 1978, from 2009 only 70 took place; that is, in the last ten years, only 3.5% of total transfers were made to autonomous communities. And for the most part, Mr Bará, those transfers were made to the Basque Country and Catalonia. They were years of government of the Socialist Party, because of their parliamentary weakness to buy votes to add to the Congress of Deputies. The difference in the years of government of President Rajoy, in which in 2012, 2015, 2016 and 2017 there was no single shift to a single autonomous community. Because, you know what happens, Mr. Bará? That the priority was to get Spain out of the economic crisis in which it was found; the one that left Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, that gentleman you supported during five consecutive budgets the budgets that led Spain to the worst economic crisis that we remember, until we are now living, which has all the faces to overcome it, both in more poverty, more recession, more fall in the national economy and much more debt. We'll see that over the next few days, unfortunately, in our country; it'll be like a desert. In the past full, the vice president has already told him that the Government of the Union will not give up seeking the maximum competitive ceiling, similar to what is marked for any of the historic communities. We are in favour of asking for new transfers to Galicia, but whenever they are useful, better management for citizens and not at any cost, Mr Bará, but the priorities are going to be set by the People's Party, both this parliamentary group and the Government of the Union, which for this we were elected by the Greeks on July 12th. [[Applause]] Look, it's not urgent for us to make your plans, for us it's not urgent for us to annex the Beer, nor is it urgent for us to apply for transfers of traffic; that's why we abstained. It's not a priority. But we don't agree either with the way you want that competition. For the People's Party, the transfer of trafficking does not imply the expulsion of the Civil Guard from our autonomous community, which is clear to the Nationalist Block Galego! No, Mr. Bará, no; we are not willing to take off our roads to the Civil Guard. [[Applause]] We don't want the model of the Galician Nationalist Block, nor the Navarre model, Mr Bará, as much as you insist. If they want the Civil Guard to abandon Galician roads, they don't contain the People's Party. Look, Galicia is not understood without the Civil Guard. The Civil Guard will vertebrate our territory, and mainly in rural -- yes, they'll put their hands on their heads -- Look, the Galician People's Party will give up traffic skills if that means that the Civil Guard will abandon Galicia. That's clear to you, Mr Bará, that's very clear to you! [[Applause]] They're giving him the head, but look, we, Mrs. Rodil, who can see that he's giving him the head... [[Mrs. Rodil speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr Bará, tell your companion that we will always be next to the Civil Guard. [[Laughter]] We will always be by the Civil Guard's side, because [to be by the side of those who shoot at the Civil Guard are already you, by the side of Otegui], a lord, a lord... No, no, I'll explain. I'll explain. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u121	No, no, tone that expression, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u122	No, yes... well, okay, I'm going to recast the expression. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u123	No, that expression will not appear in the Journal of Sessions. Quiet. Silence! Quiet, please! You're not going to record that expression, you're not going to record that expression in the Journal of Sessions, so I ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u124	Yeah, I'll reform it, don't get nervous. I'm going to reform it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u125	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u126	I'm going to reform it. You take pictures with Mr. Otegui, a gentleman convicted by the Supreme Court of membership of the ETA criminal organization, who killed many civilian guards in this country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you think it's more appropriate? [[Applause]] Does it fit more into reality? That's it. We take pictures with the Civil Guard and you take photos with Otegui, who is part of a criminal organization, condemned by the Supreme Court. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u127	Quiet. Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u128	Look, for us, Mr Bará, it's not urgent to negotiate the transfer of competences that are negotiating other communities. It's not urgent for us to negotiate the transfer of prisons. That's why they talk to you and take pictures of Mr. Otegui. Look, do you know what our priorities are? Yeah, the AP-9 transfer. Look, do you know who is the only Member of this House who voted against the transfer of AP-9? Your leadership, Mrs. Ana Pontón. She is the oldest and most elderly Member in this Parliament. You know it well. No, but that's a man. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I said "the lady," feminist lady. Why do we have inclusive language? The oldest Member of this House is Mrs. Ana Pontón. She was talking about "knocking." That BNG was talking about "navalada" and now he goes up to this rostrum to become the great defender of AP-9. That political disguise, Mr Bará, has no limits on your defense of AP-9. That's the puppetry you want to sell us now. You speak of puppets; puppets are you, who in the "Ana and Adriana Pact", at the first point, said exactly: "A joint call from the Joint State Transfer Commission in the first quarter of 2020." Look, not only did they fail, because neither was it in the first quarter of 2020, nor in the second, nor in the third, nor in the fourth, nor in the first quarter of 2021, nor was there any vision that was in the second quarter of 2021. Who are the puppets, Mr Bará? You, who have made puppets of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. They supported him to be in the government, and now, he's all day, every time he makes a decision, making it worse on Galicia, you don't seem to mind that. [[Applause]] Look, the self-government goes beyond just receiving transfers. Self-government is to let Galicia rule, and not to boycott the Health Act we approved in this Parliament to manage a pandemic. Faced with the State's refusal to update the Health Act, now we have to go to the judges. The Supreme Court has become a guard's trial, Mr. Bará. If that seems self-government to you...! Self-government is that we are not covered by the vaccination certificate set in motion by the Galician Union. Of course, but since the state has none, neither can the Council of Galicia. That's self-government, that's letting Galicia rule. And you are supporting this Government in Spain, which is preventing Galicia from making decisions. They're like "The Hortella Dog," they don't even rule or let rule. Look, finally, we don't give up having more competences, but they have to be useful and improve management, and of course, we don't expect any more cost. But we believe that there are priorities, and that is why we tabled an amendment to immediately claim the 204 million euros of the 2017 VAT, recognised by Supreme Court judgement; incentives for compliance with the rules of expenditure and deficit; transfers to employment policies; ownership of AP-9 with the corresponding funds -- Mr Bará and socialist lords -- ; management of the land-based public domain and management of uses and activities; and granting of concessions and authorizations for the use of maritime-terrestrial domain. It's not Ence, it's hundreds of companies affected by that decision, which takes with you the job, the job and the day-to-day of many...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u130	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u131	Mr. President, that's why I was telling you the other day that I couldn't remove those things that you asked me to withdraw, because it seems that the representative of the Vox section of the People's Party in Galicia is allowed to do things here and even if you applaud him for saying genuine barbarities, when the rest of the parliamentary groups have to measure and take extreme caution in everything we say, it's not going to be called in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u132	No, I've already withdrawn what had to be removed, Mr. Orange. No, I'm sorry, I've already answered Mr. Aranguena. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u133	In any case, allow me to begin by thanking Mr Pazos' contribution -- which he is not here -- to this Parliament, in particular in the form of a shock empand; a contribution which I believe will contribute to lowering the level of political crispace that prevails at certain times in Spanish politics. I don't see Mrs. Paula Prado doing the same kind of downside of chryspation, not even bringing tuna empanada. [[Applause]] I'm going to the subject. This initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block deals with self-government. And in the matter of self-government, as in any other, the PSdeG is in favour of finding solutions rather than creating problems. We're in favour of progress. Can you please, Mr. President, tell them if you can save...? [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. He said we are in favour of progress in self-government and against deviation; in favour of vision and the federal political approach and against the inflammation of political emotion; in favour of the bridges and against the borders; in favour of the illustrated reason and against political romanticism. And we're also much more supportive of accounts than of stories. And all the previous locals politically in a position that does not participate in the immobilism on the right, nor in the disorientation of nationalism. We believe in progress, not in paralysis or extravagantness. We believe in the proper and rested diagnosis of problems and solutions, not denial or escapism, not much less sleepiness. So the difference between the rest of the groups here, the socialists define themselves as federalists. You ask Galicia to negotiate all those powers that have already been transferred or are being negotiated with other autonomous communities. Two weeks ago we were in this House, precisely, debating a proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group involving 30 new powers for Galicia; a package of reasonable and reasonable competences and a package of competences that we believe would be positive if they were assumed by Galicia. So our desire to move forward and sink into self-government is clear, but we don't believe that mimetism is the right way. In fact, mimetism is not the way in any advanced federal system. What suits the autonomous community A doesn't have to be what suits the autonomous community B. What the community A decides based on its particular situation doesn't have to be what community B decides. To decide our competences according to what others decide is, firstly, illogical, but, moreover, it implies, in fact, that others decide for us, as if we were minors, which is just the opposite of what nationalism preaches. So, by betting on that mimetism, the BNG, paradoxically, is betting that our self-government decides others for us, which shows its level of disorientation. They also ask for a new financing model, betting on a new economic relationship with the State that corrects what you define as "discrimination," but without saying what that new economic relationship would be. The question is, in any case, how would those discriminations that you refer to be realized. Are we being discriminated against in the current model of self-financing? If yes, with respect to whom and to what extent would we be discriminated against and through which mechanisms? Those are the relevant questions. To answer these questions, two ways can be taken: that of emotion and that of reason. We don't hide our preference for the second, because if the focus is emotional, anyone can feel discriminated against by the most diverse and varied particular and subjective reasons. But political subjectivity has never served or served to build anything solid. The other way is to focus this possible discrimination rationally. From that point of view, the data appear to indicate that Galicia is not globally discriminated against. And I say "seems" because I think we have to follow Descartes on this subject and practice the dubious method. That's yes, a dubious method that doesn't lead us away from data, from numbers and from empirical reality, and much less from the common sense, which we sometimes call "sentidy" in Galicia. The last time fiscal balances were drawn up, in 2014, Galicia was the fourth autonomous community with a more positive fiscal balance: 3,240 million euros; the least benefited communities Madrid, Catalonia, Valencia and Balearic Islands. And by comparing per inhabitant, we were the sixth most benefited community among 17. And another fact is that, if we took the most up-to-date analysis of the Barcelona Institute of Economics, Galicia would also be one of the communities most benefited by the current system, in particular, would be the third most beneficial community per inhabitant, among 17. So we are in favour of any change in the funding system that, without losing equity and solidarity in the whole, improves Galicia's position, but we need to be very careful about this matter so that we don't get in the way of what we can get out of. You also call for the necessary reforms to adapt the structure of the State to the recognition of national feelings of belonging. At this point, I have to tell you that we do not agree at all. The feelings by definition are something particular, in addition to highly variable. I know about how I felt this morning and I know about how I feel this afternoon; a feeling that may be different from what I can experience tomorrow or what I had yesterday. If I hardly know how I feel or any of those present here, the possibilities of knowing how a nation feels -- supposedly highly doubtful that it would be possible to properly define what a nation is -- are frankly scarce. And if the deceptive concept of national sentiment is added to the nebula nation of belonging, mist and confusion can be monumental, because in the 21st century membership is something much more variable than at any time in the past. In the 21st century, one may feel that it belongs to the multitude of collectives and that it has multiple identities, which goes against the very foundation of its doctrine, which is nationalism. Just as for religion, the priority is God, for nationalism -- which resembles religion very much -- the priority and fundamental, and what modulates all of its political doctrine, is belonging to a unique national identity, while, in reality, social dynamics and the advancement of technology give us the ability to transcend the most immediate and traditional connections and become increasingly citizens of the world. And the way to be a citizen of the world paradoxically can consist of encapsulating us into microidentities associated with strong and real-time connections with people from around the world, genuine urban tribes of global scope. As for the territory, you can feel krunis, gale, spanish and citizen of the world. And if you ask someone to choose which is their priority or preference identity, maybe you have to tell them that this is equivalent to mutilation, and you usually don't want to be mutilated; or maybe yes, but that's again a subjective feeling that you shouldn't conform to objective political categories other than those that already exist. Because, besides -- as I say -- it's a more variable feeling than ever in the history of humanity -- a story that, if I had a sense and a direction -- something, of course, more than questionable -- would be to overcome the tribe to embrace the world. And, in any case, the only solution to the global problems that exist, and which are many, is to overcome the tribe and enter the world, which is not resonated with a feeling of fundamental Greek identity, because being Germans and Greeks is a way of being in the world that we defend and to which we do not wish to give up, as we do not give up the shock empanada of Mr. Pazos. Finally, they demand that any changes in the territorial structure of the State ensure Galicia the same status as the Basque Country and Catalonia. If we relate it that way, as a matter of status, of course we agree. We don't want to have a status below anyone, I'd miss it any more! What happens is that it doesn't seem that the shootings of the world or the state are going around right now, because of the alleged status; rather, it seems that the shootings are going through a proper course in the midst of the greatest storm that any of us here can remember; a storm of whose scope and intensity we are not yet aware, because we are, therefore, collectively anesthetized by the great effort of collective solidarity that is making a progressive government with the support of a much more supportive Europe than in the last crisis. So let's not lose sight of us being in the midst of a storm and not miss out on identity issues that lead nowhere. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u134	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u135	She seems to have been altered today in the afternoon by Paula Prado. He must have been thrown in the coffee instead of sugar. I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u136	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u137	What happened, Marta Novoa or Novoa?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u138	Please don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u139	Did you hurt yourself? It's all right, I'm asking if he's been thrown a guinea pig in the coffee. What I'm convinced of is that today you've surpassed the Monastery as a hero of the Civil Guard. He's at the top he already has and he's passed the Monastery Rocío on this paper. [[Applause]] Look, we propose very specific things that are urgent and important, the two things. We basically propose, in point 1, to resume the agreement of January 23, 2019 so that Galicia has all the competences already demanded and that other communities have already obtained and that PP and PSOE have already voted in favour of this proposal. What's the matter? Tell me what the problem is. But in addition, I say to you, we agree with your proposal from this point of view on the discussions leading to the immediate receipt by the autonomous community of the EUR 204 million and the rest of the economic departures owed by the Administration. There's no problem, what's the problem? If, in addition, many of these issues have already been agreed upon in Parliament. So it's a sample of generosity. We include this proposal that joins the agreement as early as 2019. I don't think it's anything to break or we're going to break Spain with this deal. Anyway, we've approved it here on several occasions. So, what's the problem? Secondly, demand from the central government the immediate negotiation of a new financing model, including the reform of mechanisms of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, betting for a new economic relationship with the State that corrects discrimination. If we talk here a thousand times about the discrimination Galicia has suffered in the field of financing! But we don't say what that model has to be. Answer me. We say that, in any case, we need to set up a talk in Parliament to discuss what this new financing model must be like. But I, you know, here everyone says and repeatedly says that it was against the current financing model. We defend one, we clearly say which one we defend; the other groups do not know what they defend. Well, for that, a presentation. And the third point actually refers to national feelings of belonging. But look, Mr. Arangüena, this point literally repeats the investment agreement of the BNG with the PSOE. So what's the matter with them? What's their problem? That you're more centralists than the PSOE in Madrid, that's the problem. [[Applause]] That's the problem, you get over the Madrid PSOE. The Madrid PSOE has accepted this and you are despotic here against this proposal. But which side are you on? Remind me of that famous song: "You're doing very well, very good, very good." I think he's going perfectly to his hypercentralist policy. [[Laughter]] And we are delighted, the truth, that we are left with all the space. [[Applause]] They're still like this because we're left with free space. There's no problem, they're doing very well. Look, Mrs. Prado, where is she? Oh, okay! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right. Mrs. Prado, cordially, you're worried because we believe a Welsh police officer who has skills in traffic and road safety. She's worried about it. She's worried because we want to drop the Civil Guard and I don't know what. But has the Civil Guard disappeared from some territory of the State where they have competence in traffic and road safety? But besides, this is a measure that you should support in an enthusiastic way, because we're opening the door so that hundreds of civil guards from Greece -- listen to me well -- that they're scattered throughout the state can go back to Galicia, they can go back to Galicia, because there'll be a gateway, like they have in Nafarroa. [[Applause]] So we're talking about a measure of demographic impulse and return of Welsh and Germans that are scattered throughout the state geography. That's our measure; that's our proposal. [[Applause]] They should embrace her with enthusiasm, if they want this country and want the emigrated Greeks to return to work here with traffic competition -- which they'll already have a lot of experience doing in other parts of the state -- to do so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's the problem? What's the problem? Anyway. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you're worried about Catalonia, Euskadi, Nafarroa... We're not worried about that, we're worried that we have to have our own way. BNG defends that Galicia writes her own story and makes her own way. And the problem is not those territories, those communities, those nations; the problem is centralism, the problem is submission. The problem is that you are also more centralists than those of Madrid, and therefore the BNG is going to defend all these powers, 5, 10, 15, 20, 50, 70, the 70 that were approved in this Parliament, but we think that's not enough, that one more step must be taken and that we are at a time to take a great leap forward; and that leap ahead comes by claiming what Galicia needs, what Galicia deserves as a nation it is. [[Applause]] We -- we've told them many times -- we want more, we want everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u140	Thank you, Mr Bará. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u141	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We voted, firstly, the Socialist Group motion, the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the impact of the curfew-19 on residential centers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u142	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Maria Monserrat Prado Cores. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the improvement of primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u143	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará. Mr Bará said he accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group as an addendum. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the transfer to Galicia of pending transfers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 36; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u144	The vote on the motions was finished. We continue with the agenda, proposals not the law. Non-legislative proposal of GGs. PP. of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists, for a Xabarin Club channel on Galician Television and better dissemination of child and youth programming in Galician
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u145	There is a self-amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u146	Let's see if there's a little less noise and we can discuss the matter; otherwise we'll have to wait. [[Pause.]] Please, we have to continue with the full. If you have to talk, please, there are other dependencies, but we have to blow this up, if not, we don't get out of it. [[Murmurs.]] As this is a non-law proposition -- which, as you know, is a proposal made by a proposal that has reached Parliament -- time is divided among the groups that have accepted this proposal. In particular, you now have the floor, firstly, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela for a time of 5 minutes. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u147	Thank you, President. Let's see if with this initiative today we have contributed precisely to the lack of so much cliché. In fact, I wanted to start by saying that few times, probably, if you present us here, in this House, the opportunity to bring to this plenary such a grateful proposition as we bring today. And I say "thank you," among other things, for the consensus you've reached here. The promotion of our language in all spheres and spaces is a statutory obligation of the Greek Government, as you know, which must ensure that new spaces are made for it with the intention of giving it more presence and thus normalizing it, so that we can guarantee its survival in an increasingly globalized world and in an increasingly technological world. But, well, it's an obligation -- it must also be said -- that it's not just a statutaria; it's abundant normative literature that collects the strategic importance of the audiovisual sector for language normalization and that guarantees the right of citizenship to receive contents in a context of cultural and linguistic pluralism. From there today's proposal, this proposal that we bring here, which aims only to give the opportunity for our childhood and our youth to socialize in Greek; to open up a whole range of possibilities of enjoyment and fun in our language at a time like the current one, in which, in addition, the screens have become -- and this is a realization of a fact, nothing that we like, but it is -- almost in the new toys of the smallest and the smallest. As you know, the PSdeG took this initiative, together with the BNG. We make the popular initiative presented by the Bureau for linguistic normalization that collects the feeling of many people, of many families; so many that it has reached 33,000 signatures. You know that in order for them to present this initiative, they had enough 2,500, but at the time of the pandemic they collected 33,000 signatures. And they don't ask anymore -- we ask no more -- than to stop being the only autonomous community with their own language that doesn't count on a continuous channel of child and youth programming. [[Applause]] Recently, this Bureau for Linguistic Standardization has produced a report stating that there is no Greek on the various audiovisual platforms that exist in the State; on another occasion we have dealt with this issue here in committee. The number of series or movies that you can see in our language is so ridiculous that you can't even make percentages. It's also true that, not with as bad numbers as the ones in Greek, but, well, something similar happens to the rest of the official languages of the state. This is also going to be this proposal, which we intend to contribute to normalizing linguistic plurality in the state context, in line with what has already been agreed upon, in addition to recently in Congress. On the child and youth programming channels here, there are already considerable differences between our country and the rest of the state. In Catalonia, for example, they have Super3 channels, and in Basque Country they have Hiro3. There, both the Basque and Catalan governments came to agreements with operators, for example, with Movistar+ and Vodafone Television to broadcast their contents, ensuring that in this wide range of content on those audiovisual platforms they are also integrated into those languages. But, of course, in Galicia there is no channel directed to that audience, nor in any of the ten television operators offer content in English. Of course there are -- then probably the spokesperson of the People's Party will amend what I'm saying now -- but, well, what doesn't exist, is not up-to-date. And from there this proposal And now the most emotional part is here. We, of course, assume this proposal because we think Galicia can't stay behind, neither Galicia nor the Galicians nor the Greeks. Families want to have the same rights as elsewhere because we want our children and our daughters to socialize in English, to enjoy in German, which we can also do. This is a right; it's not a whim, it's a right. And we know, in addition, that this is the feeling -- we know today -- of the three groups that make up this House, to a greater or lesser extent. And that's why we support this non-law proposition so CRTVG believes, or -- if it wants to, better -- get that Xabarin channel back with child and youth content in English. I arrived late to the generation of Jabarin, it no longer touched me, but in my house I had a sister to whom it touched, although already a little far away, but it could be part of this "Jabarin generation." I remember that badge she had, I remember with a certain envy: the drawings, the dragon balls, the fun and diverse cultural programming, the brave rock -- and I didn't like the brave rock, but I was glad to see how my sister sang that brave rock -- the Galician music... there was a lot of cultural content. It's the affiliation card. I remember that moment when you were on birthday, when it was your birthday, it appeared there on the screen. That was the feeling of belonging to something that was the Club Xabarin. Even games after classes and learning. And I'm done. We recovered that feeling from a whole generation that, at the beginning of the 1990s -- as I was saying -- he hooked up with a Xabarin and chanted in Greek, sitting then, in front of TVs with his ass, watching Shin-chan in Greek. And let's do it just as we do today, in a positive way, understanding the normalization of our language as natural, as the policy of ensuring spaces for socialization and ensuring the survival of our greatest wealth among younger people. There is no better way for us to do this than today with this proposal. Of course, it won't all be achieved, of course it won't be, but we'll be taking a very important step to keep Welsh alive and to fight with the growing disaffectation of new people through our language. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of your complaint.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u149	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. In the BNG Parliamentary Group, we are guided by two basic principles in our commitment to political action: firstly, we are loyal representatives of the people; and secondly, we act from a transforming social will. Two premises that support the purpose of assuming as one's own, and shared with the Socialist Group, this proposal not as a law of popular initiative. Because we are well aware that 33,008 signatures precede us at the social center who signed this Xabarin initiative with a fist and letter. And with all of them, we believe that this is a transformational initiative, because it calls for the restoration, in justice and dignity, of increasing the audiovisual supply of quality content in English in a continuous way for children and youth. And we wondered which way we walked, which bases we were sitting on. Forty years ago, the Autonomy Statute opened the door to the creation of social media, including TV Galega. In 1983, the Law of Linguistic Standardization regulated Greek as the language of this medium. A year later, CRTVG's creation law assigns this entity, in article 1, the public service mission consistent with the promotion, dissemination and impulse of the Greek language, as well as the attention to the widest audience, addressing all segments of the public, ages and social groups through all kinds of broadcasts in the Greek language. More recently, Galicia's Audiovisual Media Act defines CRTVG as an effective tool for the vertebration of Galician identity as a people and for the dissemination and normalization of its main manifestation, which is language. Finally, I want to bring here also the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek language, which has identified as a weak point the shortage of training resources and also to learn in the English language addressed to the younger, particularly in the audiovisual sphere, which serve as support for both education and leisure activities; on the contrary, the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek language recognizes as a fortress the existence of an important audiovisual industry in Greece. And let's ask ourselves again what happens now, so in the year 2021, with which present we are breaking down the keys to the future of the normalization of Greek. The use of a language -- we don't forget it -- is always social and fundamentally socializing. To return the Greek, it must be visible, audible, without any space of exclusion or subordination. Television or the set of the audiovisual sector are, precisely, good examples of the inability of the demand for German, not because there is no such demand, but because of the exclusion of the offer, and we put three very specific examples: Welsh is the only official language in the state that does not have a child and youth thematic channel within the basic offer of major television operators for optical fiber, satellite, ADSL or mobile technology. Of the more than 25,000 film and series titles that offer the main television streaming platforms, only 25 are in English, and no folded or legendary. From 120 hours a day that broadcasts Spanish Television through its five channels, only 39 minutes are heard in English. However, as far as it may seem, this discriminatory reality is not inevitable, it is reversible, and it can be intervened in order to gain space and restore Greek. With political will, language will gain use and Galicia will also be more visible outside, showing what it is, what we are, from our language, without complexes. We have a precedent for success. A whole generation of Xabarin is claimed today in those referents of images, music, animated series that reaffirmed the younger generations in the modernity of the language of the house; that initially learned, transmitted by family, but also in the other discovered language, that absent language and subsidiary as a new companion of travel and socialization. "I consider a reference to the songs of the Xabarin Club," says in a recent interview the recognized and award-winning Greek writer Ledicia Costas. A generation that, by the way, today misses this tool of communicative accompaniment of language acquisition and normalization in the lives of their children and daughters. In the BNG we understand that the essential principle of public service of CRTVG, together with the centrality of the audiovisual set as a standardizing axis, justifies the unanimous approval of this proposal not of popular initiative law. A "debe" that we need to repair as soon as possible with a new "have" in the form of a positive reinforcement for our language that will put an end to the inferiority of conditions of presence in the quality and continuous audiovisual programming for children and youth and favor a real policy for the normalization of our own and official language. The social unanimity achieved around the Xabarin initiative should be reflected today, and that is why we trust Parliament's unanimous support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u151	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today is one of those days when one, as a honourable Member, feels truly gratified. We're here discussing a... [[The President addressed the honourable Member to remind him to remove the mask.]] One is so used to...! He said today is one of those days when we feel particularly happy, and it seems to us very gratifying to be able to debate here on an initiative that has already come from the street, which already comes with those 33,000 firms, driven by the Bureau by Linguistic Standardization, to whom we would also like to thank the interest he had in talking to all the groups so that this could come here with consensus. The result of these conversations was also our amendment. And we also want to thank the rest of the groups for the same willingness of consensus so that today we can come to agreements that, although in principle, were based on the idea of a particular program, ultimately, of what we are talking about here is the right that children and children in Greece have to be offered content of training and entertainment in their mother tongue, while we are also in this way promoting the use and knowledge of that language. It is an initiative in which, in addition, we also see the need for these public media to continually renew themselves to be in the vanguard of what new times require, both in the media and in what the public are asking for, in this case, the children's audience. Finally, and with regard to CRTVG, we are here talking about Articles 10, 32, 33, 34 and 43 of the framework mandate. And to ensure these contents, CRTVG has made important efforts in the field of technological renewal with its digitization, with an budget of 15 million euros of own funds, to be able to guarantee future permanence. But that's not enough, it keeps renewing both in content and in formats, and yesterday we even had good news: CRTVG has a full channel on Youtube. It's the first autonomic chain to have it. And, besides, today we have another good news: we have to say that tomorrow we open a channel in Twitch where I will be told. Therefore, this interest in continually renewing itself and being close to new times and what audiences demand. What's going on in the childish world? What about the children's audience? Well, it's the same way you're having the programming in that time slot where there's a higher consumption. The commitment of the language and the child world of children and children to GTV is clear and powerful. It's scheduled for maximum time for children's audience, it's also apostatized for creating content in Welsh, for creating its own content, such as for example, The blind pita, for launching digital channels, or for projecting an OTT platform. And talking about children's programming on TVG has been talking about Xabarin. Jabarín is that program that was born in the 1990s, at a time when there was a strong yellow emerging cultural fabric, both in the audiovisual, musical and in the design part, at a time when he was affixed by a new format, by an original concept and also, above all, in that there was not a very broad audiovisual panorama. All this together made the Jabarin a referent, had become a dynamic element of the language and of the Greek culture and be remembered by all who are here, either because some are consumers or because in the case of others, like mine, our children were. That's why this initiative that has been discussed in the streets is sure that it has also been discussed in many homes. In my home I can tell you that if there was also debate about this initiative. Now, at present, the Xabarin Club is on TVG2 in hours of maximum consumption and also has four digital channels available, therefore 24 hours: the Xabarin TV channel on CRTVG's website; the Xabarin TV channel on CRTVG's APP; the Xabarin App and Radio Picariña; and the CRTVG's apps. They are all available on IOS and Android. Yet all of us here are aware that, despite all of this offer, the footprint it has on the children's population, on the children, is not similar to what it had in those 1990s. So we have to study what's going on. Well, first of all, there's a much wider offer. Then you have to see that TDT, these channels that you were talking about are on all autonomic televisions, are just as failed. -- forgive me the expression, but they really don't succeed -- because there's no more to see the data. On Basque television, the audience is currently 0.2%. On Catalan television, 1.7 per cent, but Clan is 1.3 per cent, and Disney Channel is 0.5 per cent. So it's a tendency that doesn't escape the Xabarin Club either on TVG2. What's clear is that TDT is no longer a channel that goes to the children's audience. It may still be good for the elders, but for the children's audience, no, because they don't consume it. Besides, it's a channel that in 2030 has to finish, and at this moment there's no room available for another channel. So it doesn't make sense to set up a new TDT channel for child programming. What makes sense is to bet on digital channels. And, as we said, here in Galicia there are already these four digital channels, but it's also true that, nevertheless, we can't reach mostly the children and the children. That's why this initiative is going to strengthen those digital channels, give them greater presence. And it also goes from something that seems very important to me and that I think it's where the future should go with more chances of success. The CEO of CRTVG told us they're working on an easy-to-access OTT platform where there's going to be a channel for children and children in English. I think this is the best, it's the closest, and it's the most feasible, and I think we're going to be talking about a new boost for the programming in English at CRTVG. But you can't -- I think -- limit only CRTVG to childish content in English. There's another television that's also public and currently has zero programming in English for children and children. So on this initiative, taking advantage of this opportunity, we also want to ask that Spanish Television have the option of folding to the Greek in its child's channel and also in its app. At a time when, in addition, if you are discussing the Audiovisual Media Act in Spain, we believe that we must also take advantage of the moment and take advantage of this debate so that that law clearly recognizes that plurality of languages and that need to be a platform that also exercises its role in promoting and promoting the language itself in each of the territories we have in Spain in our own language. And by the way, and focusing a little more on this opportunity that we were given on this popular initiative, we talked about the two public television channels, but we can't even stay there. The Greek has to reach other channels, it has to be available -- it has already been said here -- in other ways. That's why this initiative also aims and asks the Galician board to start conversations with other administrations and companies so that in the television digital channels there is the option of folding or subtitled in Greek. And we do so in addition to a moment when I expressly wish to congratulate the Council of Galicia because even today the president presented the Project Us, so that the Greeks can interact in English in the digital world. I think it's a very good news for all of Galicia, and we support it in the same way and we are glad that the budgets of the Union for this year have increased by 53% those for the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy. It is clear, therefore, the commitment of the Greek Government to the Greek language in all areas. English is a language that speaks more people than five years ago. The last PISA report also says that Galicia is the autonomous community where the student speaks two languages more easily. 96% of the student claims to be able to speak quite well or well in English to talk to another person and the study of the RAG confirms that the competence of the student in Greek is majority. 83 % of respondents claim to be bilingual. So I think it's a good time to value this good data, but it's a good time to keep working so that this doesn't stay here, so that the data continues to improve and that our children and our children have the opportunity to choose the language in which they want to listen and watch television and can access content in English and with formats that they're interested in. Finally, I believe that with this unanimous regard to this initiative today is a good day for the Greeks and a good day for the Greek. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u152	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The author groups of the non-law proposal also divide time. You can do it from the stairs or the rostrum, as you like, I don't care. As you wish. You have a word for Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u153	Thank you, President. We do it from the rostrum, which the occasion deserves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u154	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u155	I also said -- and I agree with Mrs Arias -- at the beginning of my intervention today was a day for memory, and it will be so, and so we consider it from the PSdEG. And so it will be that today all groups, at least the three of us who are part of this Parliament, put aside our differences and -- I want to highlight it again -- we treat the language as what it is or what it should be: an element of cohesion and pride, our greatest wealth as a people, which we must not only protect, but also promote to achieve normalization, and more among new people. -- as we said -- because that's the only way to guarantee or secure that conservation. Here I have to make a nuance: we also expect from the PSdEG that this same consensus around the language accompanies us in all the political action that we have now ahead and that that consensus also exists -- even in Mrs Arias' speech and I understand that in the PP too -- committed to language, and committed to the language with regard to audiovisual. I, yes, would recommend, anyway, that you check the data or see the reports better, because I think they were not very correct there. Finally, with this proposal, the Greek Parliament has just confirmed the necessity and the act of justice that the Greeks and the Greeks can consume attractive and up-to-date audiovisual products in our language, just as it is already done in other countries of the world, thus contributing to their normalization, but also assuming that our language can be a globalizing element, an element of cohesion, an element of attraction for people everywhere in the world. But the most important thing, of course for the PSdEG, is that, with this proposal that we assume, the children and children -- and not so young and so young -- will have -- and we will have the opportunity -- they and they -- to grow up and we will see how they grow up in their language, if they want it, or if we propose it to their families. At least we'll have that chance. Yes, the greatest desire is that this opportunity should be taken advantage of; that those who have the responsibility to look after, to educate, to offer, to guarantee leisure spaces, to play spaces, to have fun for our children and our children, we promote that when they sit in front of a screen, we always do it with the Xabarin. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] As far as the amendment is concerned, I don't know if I have to pronounce myself or if I have to pronounce... [[Mr Díaz Varela addressed the President of Parliament.]] We agreed that it would be accepted. Well, he'll speak later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u157	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Complaines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u158	He wrote to Ricardo Carballo Calero that "the Greek must be in everything and for all." The Greek society is requiring us to act from the consensus on linguistic normalization. It would be unforgivable, indeed, that this House of Representation of the People was not today at its height, accompanying such a movement of socialization as this around the Greek. Welcome, therefore, the People's Party to this agreement for the sake of the Greek language, in confidence -- I sincerely say -- that this is the first political agreement it is working to be the protagonists of a change of direction and hope for our language. To count on the unanimous support of this Parliament today for the Xabarin initiative -- a social and popular initiative -- implies committing itself to the change in the current situation of the Galician people; it means removing limits to a gift of repair, exposure and use in a space that is increasingly central to youth leisure; it means not accepting the lack of equity, the current imbalance in which the percentage of Greek in child and youth programming is only 4.6 % during the week, going down to the weekend up to 2.7 %; it implies -- this agreement -- not to comply with that the programming in English is only guaranteed by a single channel, the TVG; it means verifying that the situation of the current, worrisome, it is not irreversible if we all work together for sure to change it. At the BNG, above all, we want to thank all the people who have made it possible, with their activism and involvement, to convert this seed into living fruit. We recognize your efforts all these months, coordinated by the ever exemplary action of the Bureau by Linguistic Standardization, and we well understand that in quite unfavorable conditions during all these months of pandemic. Forced from the BNG by this grip of more than 60 kilometers to our tongue, which represents the human chain that build 33,008 Greeks and Greeks that brought us here. And it's over, on the eve of a new spring for Gallegous Letter Day this 17th of May, with the verse of Xela Arias, which invites the future: "There is; there is not enough language; there is not enough language to want us in Greek," and also since audiovisual communication, I added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u159	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u160	This motion for a non-law was tabled by a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and another of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u161	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u162	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. From the People's Group, we have returned to this plenary to sue the Government of the State for the construction of a bridge ship for the Navantia shipyards in the Ferrol River. We promise that we will bring this initiative month after month until the Government of Spain has given its arm to twist, and here we are, in a new month -- and there are enough! - demanding the same. Today, however, we want to take one more step, and that's why we present a self-amendment. Today we came with a new proposal, not only binding on the state government, but for all administrations. Today we bring the Galician Union's proposal to sign a pact of State for Ferrol, which we want to see as one-sided as well by this House; a great deal of agreement to find solutions to the economic, demographic and industrial problems of Ferrolterra; a great agreement involving all public administrations with responsibilities, with competences in solving the problems of our region: the councils, the provincial deputy, the Galician Union and, of course, also, in an indispensable way, the Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the district of Ferrolterra has been dragging for decades a threefold crisis: an industrial crisis caused by the conversions of the eighties and the subsequent ones; an economic crisis, with a backward and progressive business tissue delocalization, very dependent especially on the naval sector; and a demographic crisis with greater population decline and greater ageing than the rest of Galicia. These three crises have been added a fourth, and perhaps the most dangerous: to which we live in the district of Ferrolterra since Pedro Sánchez has ruled in Moncloa and that in just three years of his term of office he has paralysed the investments planned in the yards of the Ferrol River, lost millionaire contracts for the shipyards of the river and left Navantia unloaded, paralyzing the project of the frigates F-110. The same government that shut down the bridge thermal power plant and the same government that attacks the electro-intensive industry across the country, also the Ferrolterra's electro-intensive industry. To talk about socialist government is to talk about crisis for the district of Ferrolterra; it demonstrates the hemerotheca of recent decades. Whenever he ruled the Socialist Party in the Government of Spain, the district of Ferrolterra was bad. In the 2018 budgets, approved by Mariano Rajoy a week before that motion of censure, 248 million euros were allocated to start the construction work of the F-110 frigates. They were going to assume the occupation for 7,000 workers for the next ten years. That budget match was not started in 2018, it was not started in 2019, it was not started in 2020 and it was not started in the four months since 2021. Moreover, by the declarations of representatives of the Socialist Government, we will not see the construction process of these frigates begin until the year 2022. These delays are taking place just as the shipyards were about to complete the construction of a ship for the Australian Navy. And these delays are taking place, in addition, at the moment the Socialist Government lost that macro-contract for the construction of 10 frigates for the United States Navy; a historic opportunity that was worth more than five billion euros of billing for rail yards. In 2018, when they arrived, they had their work done with the F-110 frigates. However, what have they done since then? Paralyze him, delay him, leave him in a drawer. The People's Parliamentary Group led to the Commission an initiative calling for a bridge ship, a ship that had given work to the shipyards of the Ferrol River while not starting the construction of the F-110 frigates. When we took that initiative at the end of the legislation before the Committee on Industry, the Socialist Party here in Galicia said that that boat was not necessary, and they did not support our proposal. They said the Spanish Navy didn't need that ship. Months later, a few months later, what we saw was that the Ministry of Defence had commissioned the construction of that ship to the Cadiz shipyards for an amount of EUR 167 million. The Socialist Party, here in Galicia, lied to defend the Socialist Government, which had its interests elsewhere in the national territory. Once again, the Socialist Party, from the Government, betrayed the interests of the district of Ferrolterra and betrayed the naval sector. Today we read in the newspaper El Correo Gallego that the assistants of Navantia will not work in the F-110 until the year 2023. And we're seeing how the auxiliaries are firing people every day, and that those redundancies could be avoided by a decision of a council of ministers any Tuesday, if you take charge of that ship to the shipyards of Ferrol's river. But that charge is not enough; that charge is not enough. This initiative, which we bring back repeatedly, is answered with political incoherence and the hypocrisy of the Socialist Party. In the county of Ferrol they vote in favour of demanding this bridge ship, they vote in favour of building a BAM. In the Galician Parliament, they first abstained, and then, by social pressure from a whole region, he had no choice but to vote in favour. And finally, when this initiative goes to the General Courts, the Socialist Party takes it there. That's the reality. We ask the Socialist Party to use its influences, to make its MEPs and senators in Greece defend the interests of our region. This attack by the Socialist Government especially affects Ferrol, because Ferrol is a city of state. The modern Iron, the iron we know today, is a city born in the 18th century in the service of the State, in the service of the Crown. It was born after a Crown decision to build in the Ferrol River the most modern arsenals in Europe and some shipyards serving that military arsenal. And therefore, as a city serving the state, all the decisions made by the Government of Spain affect the city of Ferrol in a very special way. The city of Ferrol has always lived watching the Official State Gazette, because the decisions of the Government of Spain affect very much, very directly, the lives of the ferrolans. Whenever the government got involved and the public naval sector had a workload, Ferrol would be fine. Whenever the Government -- always socialist -- if you disagreed with Ferrol and the naval sector, Ferrol was wrong. In the face of this situation, we continue to demand the usual: burden of work for the shipyards of the Ferrol River, we continue to demand that bridge ship, and once again we ask that Parliament of Galicia today take its stand in favour of this immediate proposal to equip our yard with our workload, but we also want to request a unanimous positioning of the Galician Parliament in defense of that pact of state proposed by the Council of Galicia in defense of Ferrol. The Union has decided to take a step forward, firstly, by opening a process of dialogue with all the officials of the district of Ferrolterra: the social, economic, also politicians, with the mayors... secondly, by mobilizing resources from different departments of the Greek Government to mobilize new investments, to achieve among all positive discrimination in favour of the district of Ferrolterra. And thirdly, by promoting this pact of State for Ferrol, which involves all administrations, and especially the Government of the State. The German Government and the parliamentary group that supports it are not willing to leave Ferrol. Neither the Galician PP nor the German Government are willing to join the indifference that characterizes the Government of Spain in relation to the situation of Ferrol. That's why we present this state pact by Ferrol, a state pact that has eight axes: regaining business tissue; strengthening strategic industries such as naval, energy and electrointensive; modernizing the economy of the comarca; creating an energy pole that takes advantage of the different modes of energy production: biofuels, gas, green hydrogen, marine wind...; boosting value chains to incorporate auxiliary sectors; boosting innovation and knowledge; increasing competitiveness, and consolidating, expanding and modernizing public education, social and health services. A state pact that is based on involving all those who have competences to ensure that Ferrol works well, engage all administrations in search of joint solutions, identify new opportunities and diversify the economy of Ferrolterra, maintaining the naval as a strategic sector; hence, maintaining the naval sector as irrevocable, demanding immediate workload for the shipyards of the Ferrol River. Ferrol needs a state pact. Ferrolterra owes it a state pact and there can't be a state pact unless the Central Government, the Government of Spain. And we, therefore, want to launch from this chamber a closed defence of all political forces in defense of that state pact that involves the municipalities, that they have already shown their willingness to participate; that they involve the Provincial Deputies of the Coruña; that they evidently involve the Council of Galicia, who is the proponent, and that they necessarily involve the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u164	That is the proposal that we bring to this plenary today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u165	Mr Seco García has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u166	Thank you very much, President. A bill is used to establish a political position on a given subject. The People's Party is at least the fourth time that it brings this initiative to plenary and it has already come to the political position of all political groups in the face of the problems of a lack of workload from Navantia until the beginning of the F-110. But it is about continuing to bring this initiative, because the reality is that it has no solution to the industrial problems of ferrous citizenship. Three Members of Ferrol of the People's Parliamentary Group and are unable to get the Galician Union, which has full industrial competence, to do anything to avoid the situation in the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal. [[Applause]] That's why we're presenting the same amendment again. And putting the Navantia and the Central Government on duty -- which we also do -- we put the industrial, infrastructure, employment, training, industrial soil, etc. duty. This is as if a rescue ship was sailing and you see a person without aid in the middle of the sea, but instead of helping her say, look at another boat out there that doesn't do enough to help that poor person. And spend some time and repeat again: look at that boat there that doesn't do enough to save that person in danger, and so on and so on, watching how that person drowns without doing anything at all to avoid it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have a rescue boat at their service and they can use it. You choose whether you want to save the shipwreck or simply tell how bad it happens while others try to save it. [[Applause]] In the People's Party, instead of being occupied by governing Galicia in time of pandemic and seeing what they can contribute, they are concerned about opposing the Government of the State. It doesn't matter the situation they left Navantia, they never talk about it; it doesn't give the sporadic reasons because they put the F-110 project in a drawer. The important thing is to try to hide your skills in the industrial field of the German Government. I'm going to explain to you the situation that you left Navantia in 2018 -- your government, gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. Tellado --. Let's look at Navantia's workload. In other words, the amount of contracts signed during the Government of the People's Party, with an intense fall during the period 2012 to 2017 which caused a major financial problem in the company, which is currently financed by SEPI's participating loans amounting to EUR 1,500 million. I mean, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the company was in trouble. Rajoy and you left the company in technical bankruptcy, immersed in the matter of dissolution, according to the Capital Corporations Act, and supported solely by SEPI's participatory loans. So in an unrelenting situation caused by the incapacity, incompetence and failure of the Government of the People's Party by Navantia. And now, three or four years later, that failure of workload becomes visible, as it should be, gentlemen of the People's Party. Since in 2019 they recovered the defence portfolio, mainly with the F-110 program in Ferrol and S-80 in Cartagena, from 1,680 million in 2017, when you ruled, to 7,747 million euros by the end of 2020. [[Applause]] In December 2018, with the current government at the front, they signed the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan, with an agreement with the representatives of the workers, with the objectives of achieving the viability of the company, maintaining activity in all centres, modernizing processes and installations with the digital transition bench, relegating the template and adapting it to the need of the market, despite the situation in which you left the company. Under this government, 100 percent of jobs were maintained, nobody was fired, and new people were hired, while older staff retired through the ERE agreed with unions in the Employment Plan. Staff has been remunerated with up to six hundred recruits planned for Galicia over the next few years, which is currently being incorporated into new staff Ferrol. Since the arrival of the current state government, we have moved from the technical breakdown in Navantia and the failure of the workbook to which Ferrol is in the future the yard which has a higher volume of workbook, with the execution of the largest frigate program in recent years. Too bad this valuable period of work that we are living, especially for auxiliary workers, derived from the forgetfulness to which Rajoy's Government submitted the project of the new F-110 frigates. But we already know how the People's Party works, because when it doesn't govern, it commits itself, like now, to claim and promise to then do absolutely nothing of the promise. I'm not going to remind you again of those succulent Pemex contracts or the construction of tens of ships for the Mexican company, or the famous floating dam that they were going to build in Ferrol. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, like everything they do in industrial matters, was left only in press headlines. The real result of his passage through the Government of Spain to the company Navantia was to break technique, lack of workload and failure to modernize the yard. Since they want to talk about the failure of the burden of work until the beginning of the construction of the frigates, they have to explain -- I always tell them -- to the ferrolans why they had two years in a drawer the project of the frigates, until the arrival of the Socialist Government, which has signed contracts that will involve an investment of more than four billion euros for Ferrol, which guarantees ten years of workload and the creation of seven thousand jobs. [[Applause]] I know you're upset, Mr. Tellado, but that's it! You'll have to tell the auxiliary workers every time they bring this issue to Parliament that Mr. Morenés's particular interests were to paralyze the project, because he had the People's Party Government so interested in putting MBDA company missiles on the frigates against the Navy's own approach -- they could also give the Dioxin Prize to Mrs. Mato, and what was the relationship of this company to the Moren Minister of the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I guess they couldn't stand a look at any worker in the auxiliary industry. It's less bad that the current government of the state has arrived with the unlocking of an investment essential to railway citizenship and leaving it behind the policies of those who only look for their own interests as -- I said -- Mrs. Mato, Mr. Tellado. The deadlines for the F-110 frigate program are being met without delay -- few dates have been met for one of the engineering approval milestones --, in a program that runs in time and form, according to its planning, and in the first quarter of 2022, it is planned to start the construction of the frigates. This program has not yet taken the pace of production because, of course, it has a very complex engineering that takes a lot of time, since, among other things, digital twin technologies and artificial intelligence are developing, which suppose prototypes to be designed specifically before entering construction. This technological development is unique in this country right now and is being developed in Ferrol -- so I should be happy, Mr. Tellado --. What is supposed to be an investment in innovation that will be exportable to the civil world and that will also allow the F-110 to be exported internationally, which will revert to the Ferrol economy and support the productive fabric of industry and defence in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they can add and bring something positive. They can use their skills in industrial and employment matters. They can collaborate from the Galician Union to give greater impetus to the Starship 4.0 project, as it is collected in the plan. They can set up self-government resources. They work in the public policies of the Galician Union so that the said yard can get a greater workload and new investments, they can do it. Or they can continue to profile the bartola by leaving the ferrous citizenship thrown out. They may continue their propaganda without content, but Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal urgently need a plan for their reindustrialization, because auxiliary companies should have alternatives and work in the area, and you are unable to generate and maintain industrial activity in Galicia. Not just Navantia. Mr. Tellado, you weren't the other day, but Gabadi or Cándido Hermida also have problems, without you doing anything at all. [[Applause]] They put aid on the table for auxiliary companies and a training plan for workers in this sector in order to strengthen the competitiveness of these workers and give continuity to a highly skilled workforce. They develop a plan to capture industrial activities linked to the marine wind industry that may include other sectors that are strategic to the region, taking advantage of existing port facilities, communications and industrial soil. Today they went from asking for a bridge boat -- as they were doing the last few months -- to relinquishing the powers that Galician Union has in industry and employment. So you put it directly in the amendment they present, with a proposal that the state should seek to protect the industry and employment of the county of Ferrol. You guys have absolutely nothing to do with it! As if you were just watching and had nothing to do with industry and employment. Stop taking the hair off your citizenship and do something about your skills. Because it's good to ask for a pact of state for Ferrol, but they realize they have a lot of issues they can do from their government and they haven't done anything at all for twelve years. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u168	Good afternoon to all and to all. First of all, I wanted to send a fraternal greeting to two groups who are today defending their rights: to the retaliation staff of Candido Hermida and to the staff of the cleaning agreement in the province of Coruña. [[Applause]] And going to today's debate, the People's Party introduced at last hour the following proposal to deal with it in plenary: demand from all public administrations, especially the Government of Spain, the signing of a pact of state for Ferrol that gives a joint response to the problems of the region. It's good that in the People's Party there are those who were cooks before friar. And I'm saying it's noticed well because since the cooking TV contests were popularized at these heights, who are less familiar with what's a trap; those dishes that look like one thing but are different, they deceive their eyes and they don't really distinguish themselves until they're tested. And that's what happens to your proposal, which looks like one thing but it's another. A proposal, to make a state pact for Ferrol, which has a good presentation, which fills our eyes to all and to all -- as it could not be otherwise -- especially the BNG, which we have seen repeatedly asking both the Union and the Government of Spain to cooperate in the different areas in which they have competences, such as the naval, energy, the laugh... to push once and for all a genuine and real reactivation and reindustrialization of the comarcas. But when the waiter serves the dish and the groceries test, the illusion is shattered and the reality is imposed. And this is what happened to the mayors and trade unions of the county of Ferrol when they met with Vice President Conde and explained to them that the Ferrol pact is the proposal that Junta presented to the next generation funds, which they come to call "for energy". Nothing about the naval sector and nothing about the Ferrol creek. One by the energy of what aside from the partners of Joina in the project, among those who highlight Reganosa or Sogama, is hardly known to consist of the production of green hydrogen and biogas. This is -- I repeat -- from Joint projects to Next Generation funds: production of green hydrogen and biogas. Nothing from the naval sector and nothing from the river, and they're trying to put us all over the county behind these projects. Projects from which, as they say from the Bridge Crisis Committee -- where, by the way, there is the People's Party -- if they don't know their viability, the times of execution and the jobs they would create. And this is very concerned at the Bridges because, by the very nature of the Next Generation funds, the Joint Projects compete in competition with Endesa projects. So the question is required: if you win the Joint Projects, what volume of employment will you create? Will the thermal personnel be subrogated? What are you willing to assume with regard to the rest of the staff, assistants and transporters affected by the closure of the thermal? Just as the crisis committee is very concerned that Junta is blocking the signing of the protocol between administrations, to push for the just transition agreement on the Bridges. A blocking position that is, by the way, totally contradictory to asking for a state pact between administrations. And it worries, above all, because the argument raised by the People's Party is a notorious falsity for all the neighbors and neighbors of the village of the Bridges and the entire region. Because to say you don't push the fair transition agreement, because that's assuming the thermal closure, you've got a crime! Or do you really want to convince us that not signing that convention will keep the thermal of the bridges working? A power station that has not operated since April 2019, which has officially announced its closure and which already has the authority of the power grid manager. Or do you intend to convince someone that the biofuel project depends on it? But if you don't even know what it's all about. Are you really putting at risk the signing of the transition agreement and the arrival of funding for The Bridges, to maintain the fiction that the biofuel project means maintaining the thermal activity? You'll know why they're blocking and dangerously delaying the formalization of the transition agreement, but don't deceive people. What the Bridge Crisis Committee is demanding, where -- I insist -- is the People's Party, is the urgent signature of the transition agreement, the creation of industrial floor, which, for example, in the case of Portorroibo depends in part on the Union, and guarantees for staff who are left without employment. That's what the village of the Bridge calls. What the People's Party presents as a pact by Ferrol is a trapping, which looks good, but which in the background is the same menu every day for many years, and which we know well in Ferrol and Galicia. Previously it was thermal and hydraulics, today it will be wind farms without control and social return; some linked to the production of hydrogen. I mean, the territory at the service of energy production. Any proposal to change that model of energy exploitation, humanize it or put it to the service of the people is rejected by the People's Party. For example, to set up a public energy company, which concentrates our country's energy assets, both hydraulic and wind. This would mean to introduce in this complex scenario of energy transition an actor of the highest relevance and that it responds to criteria of social benefit in its actions. It would also serve to enhance the Italian industrial fabric, leading to the demand for products and services that transition and energy development generate, as well as to ensure that the economic performance of our energy resources returns to the country itself. But the People's Party disagrees. With our energy resources they can do business Italian or Norwegian public companies, but we can't, because according to the People's Party they are outdated models. What's going on is that you actually have a lot of commitments made. Just as they refuse to set up a technology center for R+D+I in energy storage. It's a problem today precisely because the System Regulator himself warns of the problem that renewable energy represents in order to maintain the stability of the network and supply. So an investment in important technology, precisely to change that role that Galicia historically played by mere energy producers, to also provide technology. This is something that in other territories they have clear, like, for example, Euskadi, where they have projects already underway in this field. But in the treaty of state they propose they don't speak of any of this, just like they don't speak of Navantia. The People's Party has to assume once that to get involved in Ferrol's recovery, we have to get involved in the future of Navantia, in putting Navantia to work. On the contrary, to get rid of what's going on in Navantia is to get rid of the district of Ferrol, which is what the People's Party does. While they do not exercise their powers and formally request entry into the board of directors, as provided for in the Statute of Autonomy and the Law of impulse of the Galician naval sector, you lack political legitimacy to speak of Navantia. The Greek Government must enter that board of directors, engage in the future of the yard, in its infrastructure and in the recovery and diversification of activities, starting with civil construction, because that depends on the future of an entire region. Because in a diversified and vetoed naval sector, thousands of jobs can be created. So it's all right, it's very necessary a state pact for Ferrol. But the People's Party has to assume that it can't only be the valuator of the interests of certain companies, called Rheagosa or Grinalia, if it wants to unite the comarcal society. A state pact has to mean real involvement in the future of Navantia and the elimination of vetoes. A state pact has to mean that the exploitation of our energy resources has to have a social and economic return to the territory. A state pact has to mean that the Union exercises a single command in the Ferrol River and has economic resources to urgently boost its regeneration. In order to really push that necessary Ferrol state pact, the Union must have its own positions outside the PP-PSOE confrontation, consensual positions in Galicia. But it doesn't look like you're for work. Blocking the signature of the collaboration protocol for the fair transition agreement of the Bridges is a clear and unequivocal example of this confrontation so distant and so dangerous for all of us. Just like the refusal to engage in the future of Navantia, simply to be able to use it as a partisan weapon against the Government of Spain. We will support the initiative, since it is formally correct. But as long as the Union is a hostage to the dictates of Marriage and Ayuso, and you renounce the exercise of the German Government, there is no covenant or reactivation possible. The way to deal with this self-amendment and your speech lets us stay with you as a trillaires, because there's nothing else you can say about this way of acting. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u169	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u170	Well, it's seen that BNG has compounded his relationship with PSdeG-PSOE and today he's made wild so they don't get much, is it? Mr. Fernández Alfonso, you know as much as I do about ideological discourses as yours is not eaten in the county of Ferrolterra. You're very concerned about their ideology. But the truth is, people don't have a job, people get unemployed. And who has to fix everything that has to do with the naval sector is the Government of Spain, because we are talking about the public naval sector, which depends on the Government of Spain; by the way, to which you have appointed president. They therefore assume their share of responsibility to the Socialist Party for the situation in Ferrolterra. Less lessons and the story is applied, because Pedro Sánchez made you president by his vote. They're proud of Ferrolterra's situation, because they're as guilty to you as their bankmates, to whom they rule in every place they can, even losing the election. [[Applause]] That's the reality. Look: of course we want Next Generation funds for the district of Ferrolterra, of course! What is the state pact for Ferrolterra? It is that all administrations carry out concrete commitments, dates, budgets and investments in the district of Ferrolterra, in the three districts. And that's what the Councils, the Deputy, the Galician Union and the Government of Spain have to do. And you come here to justify that this is not the fault of the Government of Spain. If anyone is to blame, it's the Government of Spain and the Socialist Party, Mr. Fernández Alfonzo, and also, in their part, the BNG. That's the reality. Of course we want Next Generation funds to put projects on Ferrolterra, of course! And we want them to be included within that state pact and to be shielded through the state pact, of course! If the thermal power station of the bridges you talked about is closed by a decision of the Socialist Government; a decision you applauded. What do you want us to sign now? You closed it, and you applauded it. That's the reality. They take responsibility and go to the Bridges to count it. Because whoever shut down the thermal power plant was a socialist government, which could continue to operate until the year 2035, as is the case in other European countries. And they hastily closed it to carry out a pseudo-ecological speech, which the jobs care about. As if everyone could be left-wing Members in Galicia! Mr. Martín Seco, don't go with that speech to see the workers of the auxiliary industries, don't go to Ferrol to tell them that, because you have to understand that you've been ruling for three years, three years in a short time! So if there's no workload right now, it's because for three years you haven't done anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u171	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u172	We left a load of work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u173	Quiet, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u174	...let's leave orders and a project to put in motion. And the F-110 have stopped you. That's the reality. Don't worry, they'll soon lose the government and turn the People's Party back and reactivate the F-110 frigate project. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And don't worry that the People's Party has three Members in the district of Ferrolterra, worry that the Socialist Party has zero, and that in the end when we talk about ships, we have to talk about a lord of Vilalba. He's worried about it, because that's clearly significant. They don't speak the Coruña, they're going to speak from Vilalba. [[Applause]] That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u175	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u176	Look: Navantia shipyards depend on Sepi. Sepi depends on the Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u177	Silence, Mr. Seco!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u178	Everything that has to do with the naval sector depends on you. Do you think you're doing something? Did they participate in the state pact, yes or no? Or are they calling Madrid so they won't join? That's the reality. Is that all they care about, Ferrol? The situation in the district of Ferrol is of extraordinary gravity, and this is the time to act, Mr. Seco. It's time to act and it's time to get involved from all administrations. The Galician Union makes a proposal and we expect the Government of Spain to join, because the municipalities will be added. I'm clear. And the Deputy I'm sure you will, too. Therefore, this pact of state that you criticize I am sure that socialist mayors and the socialist president of the Crown Deputy will subscribe, because it is common sense, because they know the region much better than you do, because they know the damage the Socialist Government has caused to this region. The Government of Spain is in debt with Ferrol, and has to add and participate in the state pact. And the Government of Spain on a board of ministers has to approve the hiring of that ship by the Ministry of Defence on the shipyards of the Ferrol River. Why? Because it's fair, because Ferrol needs it. Don't come to this chamber talking about assistants, as if nothing had to do with the decisions that your party has to make in Madrid. It's just that if there's no cargo in the naval sector right now, it's because of you. Therefore, a little prudence and a little responsibility. We make a call to defend among all a state pact for Ferrol. A state pact that includes investments and actions from all administrations, which assumes a positive bet by a county that needs positive discrimination in order to get ahead. Ferrol gave his best, which is his laugh, to the state, to build military arsenals and shipyards. And Ferrol now needs help from that same state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u180	It is true that it is circumstantial that the Socialist Party is in the Government of Spain, and it is true that many people want it to be for a short time. But while he is, I ask him to do something about Ferrol, because he's in debt. [[Murmurs.]] The Government of Spain must therefore act. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Mr Rivas, you are not in this debate. Home, you are not in this debate. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr Rivas, you are not in this debate. You are not in this debate! Really, you've had your debate in the morning. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He had his debate in the morning. There are already voices from your group who know what they're talking about. Just listen to me. They know what they're talking about, more than others. Next initiative. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and eight other Members, on the assumption by the Government of the direct public management of the major residences to be built in the seven main cities of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u182	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u183	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Everyone has less ideology than the People's Party, which is a being of light. It's a being of light! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u184	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u185	And the Civil Guard and the Spanish monarchy. So we're going to talk, precisely, about that ideology that the People's Party does not have, and that they don't come to this Parliament to make politics, as everyone knows, that they tell us very often. We are going to talk, precisely, about that ideology and, above all, about what interests that ideology responds to. But I wanted to start another way, which was framed a little bit of the debate, if I may. Since it's the last initiative we're going to keep this afternoon, I'd like you to do a collective exercise -- it's easy, it's not difficult, it's quiet, you don't have to answer anything -- I would like them to think for a moment each and every one of you that 87% of the schools in this country were private or that 87% of the hospitals in this country were private. They also think that almost nine out of every ten health centers were deprived in this country, and that 20% of them were or belonged to investment funds, which is known as "Voitre Funds". This isn't science fiction or something dystopian, it exists in other countries of the world. This is something we find, for example, in the United States health system. There are countries, among them -- there are more -- where services like health or education are privatized. It is therefore excluded from those who cannot afford them, and companies that operate in the sector have only one goal, which is to earn more and more money, even at the cost of life -- and since we talk about health too -- or people's death. I would like to think that here none of your lordships in any of the parliamentary groups considers the United States health system as an example, rather the opposite. And now, in this collective exercise, some questions: We, since the BNG, are absolutely convinced that for most of the people in Greece it would be unacceptable for all the education or health of this country to be held in private hands. One of the questions is: if we consider it unacceptable that 87% of hospital squares are in private hands, why do we consider it acceptable that 87% of residence squares, which should ensure the care of the older people in our country, if so? Can the Public Administration be absent from social services that must guarantee fundamental rights as the right to a dignified old age? Is the right to a worthy old age guaranteed when, because of the lack of public residential squares, a person in our country has to wait more than two years to access this resource to which he is entitled, recognized, in addition to, by law? Is the right to a worthy old age guaranteed when a person in Moaña -- and this is a specific case, there are the beams -- they end up in a residence in Monforte, 150 kilometers from their home, because that's the only option the Administration gives them to access a public square? We at the BNG are clear that we don't. And that is where we want to focus the debate. About care and care in residences, we're also aware, and so we moved it from the very first moment, that the debate has to be wider and deeper than the type of ownership and management of the centers, yes. But it's the first stage of the debate when in Galicia the number of public squares represents only 2%, two out of ten. We live in a country where 25 percent of the population is over 65. And the trend is not to reduce, but to increase that aging of the population; not only because it increases life expectancy, that too, but because emigration and the decline in fertility rate will make in our country older people will have -- and we will have an increasing weight in the population pyramid. How to age and where to do it, ensuring the highest shares of social welfare, is one of the main challenges facing this country; that is to say, to guarantee what is known in demography as "life expectancy in good health." And there lies our proposal: to strengthen the public system to guarantee the right to a dignified old age, not to keep on eating the private business, not to keep on increasing inequalities, not to promote quality or beneficence, but to guarantee rights, and the social rights of one of the most fundamental and important parts of society in this country and one of the groups, as we have seen in this pandemic, the most vulnerable. [[Applause]] This isn't magic, it's not magic, neither is our initiative, we said it from the very first moment. We know that a model like what currently exists in caring for older people in our country does not move from one day to the next, nor are we going to solve all the problems that have been going on in this country for years, in a "chis." But it's a first step to start changing things, but to start really changing them, not to make cosmetic changes or simple makeup, but to go to one of the roots of the problem. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández makes a sign with her fingers.]] Because the current situation is not only a huge privatization -- which is, I insist -- that 87% of the squares are private, but also a huge concentration in the hands of a few groups. In particular, in our country, we are the main business niche of one of the main business groups in the care and care of older people, which is DomusVi. It captures -- I insist -- 20 percent of the private squares in our country; that is, 4,737 squares are managed or are owned directly by this group, which everyone knows and which is, as everybody knows, managed in that financial and fiscal architecture by abutre funds or voitre funds. It is 4,737 squares divided into thirty residential centers. Here's a curious fact: of these thirty residential centers 40% are of public ownership. These were built with the enormous effort of the Public Service and, ultimately, with funds and public economic resources coming out of the pockets of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. 40 % of the elderly residential centres that manage DomusVi in Galicia are of public ownership. Privatization, concentration and, most important for the business to be round, concertation. The draining of public funds to private companies and religious entities, which are the ones covering the residential sector in Galicia, is ingenious. We've been trying for a long time to be answered by a question on every track in the control session to the president, but also by all of the legally established channels. We're still trying to get us to answer a question that is clear, direct and concise and that I think is of general interest, not only in the Nationalist Block of Wales: how much public money does it cost this country, to the public era, to the public administration, to maintain this system of privatization of social rights? We have no answer; of which there is no answer, there is no answer. We have no answer to how much money costs us the entire bill, but what we do know is how much more it costs us to hold a concerted square instead of a 100 percent public square. Because it's a lie that privatization is cheaper, it's not true. At the cost of providing the service, in the case of companies like DomusVi, you have to end up adding a profit margin to keep them on top of the business. The latest report by Imserso -- which is not a Bolshevik or social-communist organization, which is now all social-communist, but Imserso is not -- about the older people in Spain -- state statistical data and by autonomous communities -- places the over cost at 8%. That is, this country's public administration, the Galician Union, pays nearly a thousand euros more --936 euros to be exact - for a concerted place than for an average public. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, seeks a political commitment, then and very especially what we have experienced in this country in the last fourteen months; a political commitment from the whole House to strengthen the public, ensuring the direct management of the seven residences whose construction is planned in the seven cities or the seven main cities in this country. Our goal is to start changing the current model with a first step, but to start decisively and firmly changing the current model; that is, to move from that privatization model and streamlining public funds to private building a strong public service network, which places life, people and care at the centre, not profit or beneficence. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u187	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a complex, very complex challenge, but very necessary, in the future: addressing the new model of care for older and dependent people. We can't talk about a new residential model without talking about a new care model for older people, and within that set, it has to be the embedded residential model. The quality of the service must be first and foremost. From the Socialist Group we are aware that there are many residences in Galicia that have worked well before and during the vault and that they will also do well after the vault, but there are others that do not. And within the variability of management, some are public, some are social initiative and others are private. The question is that over the last decade the management of the Government of the People's Party has promoted an obvious imbalance in the number of public and private residential care squares, as the Council itself has warned in its report issued in 2018, or it has also been warned in the report issued by the State Association of Generators and directors of social services, in which Galicia is the last autonomous community in relation to the number of publicly funded squares. Here's the representation. You don't see much, but it's the state average, where private financing markets are specified, and then it's the average we have in Galicia, where it's specified more than 60% of the percentage of privately funded squares. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows another document.]] This has to change as soon as possible so there's a balance. This fact, together with what we have already commented on during the morning, says that we are the second autonomous community that we have less inspection technicians from all over Spain. It's a dangerous equation; we can't increase private squares and decrease the number of inspections, because, then, we're in danger not only for residents, but also for the working conditions of people working in residences. [[Applause]] The logic would indicate otherwise. The autonomous community that may offer less public management should compensate for this deficiency with a higher number of inspection technicians in order to be able to monitor the care we offer to the older people in Galicia, but the Greek Government decided otherwise: as the number of private residential squares increased, the number of inspections decreased, and, in addition, significantly. And the Board of Auditors also said that it has established very significant data and that in this box they specify how, for example, in 2010, the total percentage of scheduled centres was 100 percent and in 2016 the percentage of scheduled centres was 39 percent. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows another document.]] We're going that way. He hasn't changed the question. We have to change this as much as you sing, for the sake of the older people living in residential care centers. It is clear that for the residential model to function it must be covered by resources according to the level of requirement which marks its own legislation and a number of higher inspections which will ensure compliance with that regulation. And look!, very important, we have to solve the waiting times for a residence, which we technically call the "resource allocation program." It is also important here that the Board of Auditors report, so that we actually have objective data and that they are referents, for example, that in 2010 or 2011 we had an average waiting time for people who are waiting for a residential square of 45 days or 126 days. In 2016 we were already 491 days old, and now we've got 550 days of waiting to wait for a residential place. And not only that, but as Mrs. Rodil has already commented, we have an average distance from the place of origin of people who request a residential square of even over 150 kilometers away. This is what I call, once again, emotional relocation, and it has an impact not only on the detriment of the well-being of older people who enter a residential square, but also on their families, who cannot visit that person with the assiduousness they deserve and would like. We have to change this. [[Applause]] I've said in other interventions that, as a society, we need to change the concept that we have of the older people in institutions as well. We must leave behind the infantilization that is made of them, on occasion even from the institution itself, as the competent in Galicia. Older people, aged 65 or 75 -- they equal age -- they have a lot to contribute; and above all in this kind of issue they have a lot to think about, firstly, when we talk about their immediate future. A few weeks ago, the advisor announced a draft of the new residential model, where, according to the media, they explored pilot models such as, for example, sharing floors between boys and girls and older people. I wonder: are these types of measures really consensus? [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] Did they consult with older people, who are the protagonists and the first ones involved? Did you consult with your family? That, by the way, we have a news these days that a state-owned family association led, among others, by the Greek Network association, which, by the way, was not invited to participate in the advisory committee. Something will have to say to families, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, in the new model of residential care; something will have to say to the families of residents. But we don't understand that they didn't consult with entities in the third sector as important as experts in the field; for example, the Galician Society of Hieria and Gerontology. We do not understand how this association is not invited to participate in the advisory committee for the new residential model. How is that possible? We don't understand. Is this the consensus they sell? Could we facilitate this draft -- if there exists -- to the parliamentary groups of this House with regard to the citizenship that we represent? We need to be aware that we have to talk about a new decontextualized residential model of the rest of the care services that exist for older or dependent people that don't work, so we have to get out of here in order to optimize care in the most fair and immediate way. The seven residences that will be built in Galicia respond to this new residential care model, as announced? We'd like the Greek Government to provide information on this, as it seems that the number of squares for each one will be quite wide. That would give rise to a clue as to how the new model of residence is going to be crumbling on the advisory committee with "high secret of state" by the Social Policy Council. The advisor himself assured that the new residence model would be more participatory and consensual. Where's the consensus -- I repeat --? In Ourense province, for example -- where I come from -- the average age of citizenship is over 50 because of, among other things, a lack of talent motivated by the lack of opportunities for a generation, for a very prepared youth. Adapting the supply to labour demand is a pending task that has to be carried out as soon as this government is to settle population and put greater resources for that return than the care sector needs and demand. For that, we need to train and improve the working conditions of workers and workers in the sector, who have been asking for them to listen for many years, and who deserve not only demagogic applause. but the Council meets with them to speak and meet their demands -- which, by the way, is the duty of the advisor --. [[Applause]] The new model must be careful, not just residential. Residentials have to be one of the resources, that's yes, with all the guarantees, and based on a more familiar model, similar to a home: small groups, housing-like structure, etc. Of all this we have to speak as soon as possible, with unity and consensus, but above all listening to the biggest and professionals in the sector to know how to be able to humanize the context to the fullest, fulfilling the personal ratios quantitatively and qualitatively, and that the Board of Auditors does not have to take us out the colors again to warn of the serious irregularities that have occurred in recent years. It is time to bet on policies such as the Dependency Impact Plan that the State Government offers to palliate the years of dependency cuts from that real decree of 2012, which was the lethal weapon against the dependency in this country by Mariano Rajoy, of the People's Party. [[Applause]] It's essential to boost the figure of the staff assistant, teleassistation, day centers, socio-Community centres, redefine the home help service and care in the family environment. And within this set of possibilities of services, residences need more humanity, more personnel and improvements in the conditions of workers, which were those who had to give these caresses, that affection, that support to older people, who were confined three times more than the rest of citizenship. More inspections and more public squares serving as a balance for our residential care system! Let's make it possible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u189	Thank you very much, President. I, first of all, would like to thank the displays of affection for this annual re-editation of the shock party that we make in Parliament and which was even worth it so that for a few moments -- I suppose briefly -- Mr. Arangüena took the radical meat away from me to give me the booster of the agreement, which shows that there is no miracle that doesn't get the shock of Round it, and I appreciate it. Mrs. Rodil told us that we had to contextualize, and I want to contextualize this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, during the presidency of Alberto Núñez Feijó the Social Policy Council increased its budget by 90% -- I repeat, by 90% -- an exponential increase that brought public resources to the most vulnerable Greeks and Greeks -- dependent people, children and, of course, our elders. During these twelve years, we multiplied by seven funds devoted to caring for the greater in their homes -- because so they tell us the older ones, who prefer to live in their own houses -- During these twelve years, we have multiplied the number of bonds and bookshops for day centers and residences for eight years, because there is a greater need for these resources. We push the houses of the largest - -150 squares, which will be 400 when it ends this year 2021-- And we also created 2,448 new public residential squares, to which these 900 squares will now be added in seven residences in the Greek cities. And all these advances, ladies and gentlemen, were possible thanks to responsible management of public resources, assessing at every moment what is the best formula for implementing the best possible service and taking into account the circumstances of each moment. And so it's going to be done with these seven new residences, because we can't anticipate what the management model is going to be, because we don't know what the budget we're going to have in the year 2022 and next and therefore we don't know what the public resources are going to be available. We also don't know what legal possibilities there will be for hiring public personnel and whether or not the replacement rate will disappear. We also do not know whether the European Union's funding will allow investment in residences and, if it permits, what end and under what conditions. We also don't know what the state's going to be contributing to the dependency in Galicia -- although we already know that it's not going to reach that 50 percent that you committed to the government pact that placed Pedro Sánchez in the presidency -- But above all, we're not going to do it because we don't want to play demagogy with our elders. We don't want to play, ladies and gentlemen, the same game that BNG and PSOE practice, which is to defend a model of direct management when they're in opposition and drive a completely different model where they have government responsibilities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that every time they had, they did not doubt the management of public services to companies and foundations. He did it in the past, and he's still doing it today. Look, in the past, in the Bipartisan Government, of nine residences, four were direct public management residences -- back from Castro, Ortigueira, Taboadela and Sardinia -- ; five outsourced residences: Larax, Castro de Ribeiras de Lea and Bande -- these three were of what is currently DomusVi-- and the other two -- in Quiroga and Viana do Bolo -- of the Valdegodos Foundation. In total, it is 240 direct management squares and 607 privatized management squares. This is what you did when you were given the opportunity to rule. But what are they doing today, gentlemen? We're talking, for example, about the SAF, about the SAF in the municipalities. This is the percentage of municipalities that privatized their service: the BNG, 46.6% of its municipalities; the PSdEG, 45.5% of its municipalities; the People's Party, 29.8%. They're curious data. [[Murmurs.]] But let's talk about the residences of the Lugo Deputy -- five residences -- Mrs. Rodil said we'd bet on the American system. We, no; you, yes. Do you know how many are outsourced? Five o'clock, 100 percent. The US system in Galicia defends it, Your Honor. It's just that you have to be a little serious about what you say. Look, two residences, in Paul and Work, are Messengers for Peace, and three others, in the Foundry, in Castroverde and Ribadeo, are in the hands of companies. In the case of Ribadeo, by the way, he is in the hands of Clece, subsidiary of ACS -- Florentine Pérez!, careful that the thing is serious!--. But the purpose that today dares to come here to ask for the public management of the seven new residences that will be built in Galicia three days after we know that the Deputy bids the services of the Meira jeriatric. Three days has led to your coherence! It's just that you need to have a level of discharge that...! I'm from the county side... Well! ...you will see, Mrs. Rodil, this I suppose is the new model, the new model that you want to implement the Deputy of Lugo, and we understand that the PSdEG and the BNG, which are the ones that govern it. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm asking myself a question, ladies and gentlemen. You met this week with family members of residential users and residents workers. And do you, when you meet with them, explain to them what BNG understands by a public management model? Because, look, after the last plenary session, the mayor of Ribadeo sent a letter to the president of the board explaining that Ribadeo's residence is a public management residence. And he says the letter: "The Higher Persons Care Centre of Ribadeo is a city center of municipal ownership and initiative and direct public management -- managed through a collaboration agreement between the two administrations that have been present since the beginning in the neighbouring struggle by this center, the Town Hall and the Deputy -- using their own staff, staff and work. The only thing you can find is, like any other administration, some service contract." [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you'll be surprised. The number of public workers in that residence is five, and shared with other residences. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, in exclusive dedication there are two squares, two squares! Twenty-three workers are hired by the dealership, the kitchen staff, the cleaning staff and the laundry and the fifteen growers-- Mrs. Ortega, those who give charity, those who give affection, they turn out they work for the private, and you treat them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But like not? [[Applause]] Ask your fellow MPs, Your Honor. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero denies with his head.]] I think we have to explain these things, because you say, we have a service contract, but we keep an eye on them. Look, the management of this residence is so public that they've just sold that they've given the contract to a new company, CK-Senior-Management. And how did they sell it? I'll tell you: inside a package of residences that includes other residences, some daycare facilities and even municipal winter and summer pools. But this isn't mercanizing the service, it's giving a quality public service. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, you've certainly got an amazing landslide. To me, and I think to the Greeks, we'd like you to explain something to us today, and see if we understand it. I'd like you to explain why a residence where 90% of the healthcare staff depend on a company you consider public and the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, where 100 percent of the healthcare staff depend on Sergas, turns out it's a private hospital. Hey, this is something to explain. When are you going to do it? Because, of course, some statements are surprising. Look, I'm telling you... Your Honor, I think I'm asking quite logical questions, right? [[Murmurs.]] Unless what you intend to justify is that indirect management, when it is done by PP, is privatization and when it is done by BNG and PSOE is "externalization of services", which remains very thin. But I repeat: the hugs, the caresses, the workers with whom you met this week, who are represented in an association and that you ensure that it has to be public staff, you subcontract them to a company, and not to any one, the constructor ACS -- I don't know if they knew-- specifically to their social services division. [[Murmurs.]] I honestly think it's time for us to rethink doing things with a little coherence. By the way, we assure them that we also intend to control what is done. You guys had a chance to check it out recently through some files; files in which there were important sanctions for some of the companies you appointed today. I say it because, perhaps, it's a good time to apologize for the things that were said here about the operation of other public workers, those of the inspection services. The things that were said in this House I think they would well deserve an apology. [[Applause]] Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u191	... -- I'm done now --, I want to reassure them and make sure that the Board will evaluate the most efficient model to manage these new seven public residences, and I'm fully confident that it will match with you and your opinion; what I don't know is whether it's going to match your opinion in the Government or your view in the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u193	That's what you're looking at. I hope we'll be out of doubt soon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u195	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u196	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u197	What we saw in the files and the sanctions we saw in the files we talked about the other day. I'll give you something: it's cheap, it's very cheap, it's noncompliant, because it's cheaper for you to pay the penalty than to hire a full-time worker. That's what we saw. [[Applause]] As a matter of advance, I'll tell you that you're lying like a bunny... but tremendous! [[Murmurs.]] He did it in the morning saying that the 17 residential inspectors, which is a lie, are false, and are the data of the Board itself sent to the Parliamentary Group of the BNG. They're 17 inspectors for all social policy services; 17 for all social policy, and only 7 for residences. He told that lie in the morning and now he's back. I like you to set the example of those three residences, which said they were privatized by the Bipartite, which then ended up being DomusVi. Indeed, what ended up being DomusVi? A company with a public shareholding of 45 % and also participated in the boxes. They were managed, including today's DomusVi de Larouco, by that company called Geriatrics. [[Applause]] You can look for -- I don't have time for it -- but you can make a quick review of the tremendous ballast that this company has achieved -- today DomusVi -- and, above all, of the Voitre funds and the investment capital, including Magnum Capital, and others that came after, who have that taxation in that tax haven that is Jersey Island. So, with everything! That's the way it is! I missed one argument, which was to come and make a comparison. I haven't referred to the data from the Covid-19 and the incidence in private centers and residences during the pandemic, but you always come out with, for example, the cases that occurred in Extremeura, which greatly affected your network of public residences. Today morning we were talking about data disaggregated by centers. They've vetoed access to that public information again. One of the reasons, among all of the things we've explained since the BNG in the morning, to access -- in addition to the guarantee of that right -- is to confirm -- this is almost a personal question -- whether it's true the data that, published in the press, would show that only 5 people have died in the network of direct public residences of the Board of Galicia, against 785 people who have died in private homes. As a percentage, we're talking about 99.4% of deaths occurring in private or privatized residences. Doesn't that distortion provoke them even the slightest doubt? 'Cause it's not luck, it's not luck, is it?Oh, my God! Will it have anything to do with the management model and ownership of these centers in the huge impact of the pandemic in private or privatized residential centers in our country? Why aren't they even curious that the centres that concentrated the main groars, in addition to private and privatized, were the centers that had accumulated complaints for years and that are collected in that report of the 2018 Board of Auditors? And that these allegations were always centered -- and that we could also check on the files -- in breaches and irregularities essentially of staff and food? Because how do you make money with people's care? Where is the benefit margin when you attend and manage a senior residence? By cutting back on what can reduce costs to increase the profit margin. Basically it's human resources, personnel, food and general expenses, such as the maintenance of the infrastructure itself or the receipts of light and energy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're not questioning the workers and the workers of private homes. That's a lie and the parapet you always use, it doesn't matter what we're talking about. Here to question PP's health policy is to attack health professionals; to attack the privatization model of senior residences is to attack workers and workers in the private or public residential area of this country. But it's not true. And, in addition, she's given a lot of breast blows with the rights of workers and workers. But do you know who doesn't meet and, besides, violates the rights of these workers? You and the Galician Union, who support you as a majority in this House. You have suspended Article 19 of the Fifth Convention, which, said so, is a little weird, but that's what regulates the right to rest for the staff of the Social Policy Council. The right to rest has been suspended for public residential workers since 2012, and extended through an accompanying law. Or, for example, we've been seeing for years as the employer of private residences to which you've been sending substantial amounts of public money to support this concerted service, and for years now, it's been refusing to renew, for example, the agreement of private residence workers. And Gallisa's board shaves up and whistles, like she doesn't go with it. Let's say it in the morning. The guarantee of labour rights, sufficient and dimensional staff frameworks is closely linked to the quality of service and the care received by older persons who are admitted to residential centres. He said it at first, we're going to talk about ideology, because the People's Party has it too. Defending hexemonics is also ideology. This is going to be a vote that goes as well and, precisely, of what model we want to implement from now on and after the last fourteen months lived in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u199	...in Galicia. I just want to say a question about what he was saying at the beginning of his intervention and the fattest part of his intervention. Indeed, the guilt of privatizing the homes of older people in this country, as everybody knows, is the Galego Nationalist Block, which has ruled this country 32 of the 40 years of autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u201	I already said Def Con Dos, the guilt of everything is not Yoko Ono, but the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-11-DSPG035.u202	Thank you very much. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
