ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with questions to the President. These are questions that are debated in a cumulative way. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G. P. of the Galician Socialists, asked about the commitment of the Government against corruption in connection with box B of a political party and the information connecting it with that party in Galicia Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the new alleged irregular financing of a Galician political party, in known as the case of Basel
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u2	We begin with the question of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This whole parliamentary House is fully aware that it has among its objectives the fight against corruption. He recently said who is Secretary General of the United Nations that corruption is criminal and immoral, and it represents the ultimate betrayal of public trust, and even more prejudicial in times of crisis. We will all agree that democratic quality is devalued by corruption and we owe the citizen a firm commitment to corrupt practices, a commitment to exemplaryness and cleanliness, and also to transparency against the shadows of corruption. The former presidents of the Government, Mariano Rajoy and José María Aznar are now in court. Yesterday they made three ex-secretaries general of the People's Party. Tomorrow will do it who was vice president of the Government, Rodrigo Rato. Gürtel, Bárcenas, Kitchen and a corruption entrenchment linked to the PP, and citizenship wants to know that says the president of all the Greeks and Greeks in these cases and the binding of the People's Party of Galicia. In the Gürtel case the Judiciary concluded that the People's Party was declared to be a profit-making participant, i.e. beneficiary of a -- intercommitted, I say -- "real and effective system of institutional corruption made to benefit the People's Party," judicial judgment. In the case of Gürtel, the ex-secretary of the Galician PP, Mr. Crespo, was a leading person and ended up being sentenced together with the Bárcenas and many other people linked to the People's Party. In January 2013 the existence of the papers of Basel began the investigation into the PP's box B. Luis Fraga, a senator for 21 years and the founder's nephew, recognizes that he's taken out of box B, and says that the papers of Bárcenas have all the credibility. We recently heard from the news of the Kitchen case, which investigates the operation mounted by the state cloacas, to eliminate evidence that is in the hands of the Bárcenas, that the only accounting subtracted from the Bárcenas that is cited as such is precisely that of the People's Party of Galicia; very curious. [[Murmurs.]] The Bavarian hard drives were -- as we all know -- destroyed in 2013; the combination of the disappearance of the hard drives and the theft of this PP accounting documentation implies that someone has been worried about covering up what happened in the PP and also what happened in the Galician People's Party. Well, few days ago in the trial of the case of Bárcenas both the former PP manager and the Bárcenas themselves confirmed that the last operation of the People's Party's B box was precisely a cash payment of 50,000 euros in 2010 from the PP of Pontevedra and that it was distributed, according to Bárcenas, into two envelopes delivered to Rajoy and Cospedal. You were president of the People's Party in 2010, you had already been elected president of the People's Party in that year, and what you're considering is whether there's a PP box in Spain and a B box of the People's Party in Galicia. And that's why, Mr. President, we ask you: what do you know about box B of the People's Party the president of all the Greeks and Greeks? Did you exist or consent to a box B in the Galician People's Party? Here where did the Gürtel case emerge and here where it was made, according to the Basel statements, the last payment of the People's Party's Box B issues? What information do you have, Mr. Feijóo, regarding box B and what information did you share with who was president of the Board, Mariano Rajoy? For information, for transparency, at a time of crisis when any kind of exemplary failure cannot be allowed on any stage and even less now. We asked you to report the Welsh and Welsh from PP's box B, what did you know?, what did you consent?, what existed in Galicia? Transparency by regeneration and, of course, all the clarifications necessary for there to be no shadow of doubt. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. I now turn to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was Javier Arenas, vice president of the Government of Spain, three times minister, secretary general of the People's Party. It was Maria Dolores de Cospedal, Senator, Member, Secretary General and Minister of the People's Party. Today he is José María Aznar, President of the Government of Spain and included in the Three of the Azores. And Mariano Rajoy, who was president of the People's Party and president of the Government of Spain. The National Audience is once again a parade of great glories of the People's Party and having to appear in the B box of the People's Party. At the bottom, ladies and gentlemen, a new delivery of the Gürtel Mafia. A box B which is an X-ray of the People's Party: surpluses, doped electoral campaigns, institutionalized corruption and reformed headquarters with money so black that they are unable to whiten out or leave Genoa. [[Murmurs.]] A decision by Mr. Casado that seems to be unwelcome, Mr. Feijóo, because we read to him in an interview that said that from the past he did not deny himself, he learned. [[Applause]] I believe that any sensible person seeing the past of corruption of the People's Party would think that the best thing is to deny it; but, at last, each one with his principles, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And that plot of illegal financing comes back to news after Ext. Luis Bárcenas reconfirmed before the judge the connection of the Greek PP to box B. In particular, it has just been stated that in 2010 the Pontevedra People's Party delivered 50,000 euros in Genoa, which were divided into two envelopes -- according to Barbaras said -- and one handed it to Rajoy and another handed it over to Cospedal. We are talking about 2010, and you, Mr. Feijóo, were elected president of the People's Party of Galicia in 2006; therefore you have full responsibility in this matter. This is the most recent statement, but it rains on wet: "Pablo Crespo, considered number 2 of the Gürtel plot and who was for almost a decade the Secretary of Organization of the Galician People's Party, said that they were divided over charges of the Greek People's Party, and confessed that 75% of the budget of the electoral campaign was made of black money." And here's also the report by the manager of the People's Party of Galicia that says they were bitten to companies worth 1.8 million euros, and many of these companies then randomly received multi-million contracts from the People's Party when you, Mr. Feijóo, were also a member of that Government, first as advisor, and then as vice president. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has a huge gravity. Time cannot cover the transcendence and the importance of a plot of corruption that I thought would not only undermine millions of euros of citizens, but also undermine the functioning of the democratic system. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, we are waiting for your explanations in this House today; and I am glad that, if we are not convincing, we will bring the proposal for the creation of a commission of inquiry from the Galician Nationalist Block. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you laugh, but your party's corruption has stolen millions of euros from citizens of this country. And, of course, what we want is explanations in this House on a matter, ladies and gentlemen, we want explanations in this House on a matter which is repugnant to any democrat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to start by recognizing that you have an enormous ability to surprise. In the middle of a pandemic trying to avoid -- if possible -- the fourth wave, we're exactly the same questions I received before I was president of the Galician Union. We have a number of sad consequences. We've just heard about the Banco de España's proposals and growth forecasts, and it turns out that this control session is dedicated to elucidating what seems to have happened in the People's Party in Madrid over a decade ago. Is it really true that later or just when you complete a year of the Galician pandemic, do you attend this control session on this subject? Is that your proposal, gentlemen? This really reminds me -- you weren't the spokespersons -- a control session that we've taken quite a long time... every time, every time there's some information in Madrid automatically the parties that say they're defending Galicia because they bring the same themes into the control session. Control sessions I've been in since 2009. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Aymerich, April 28, 2010, the same question. Mr. Jorquera, March 13, 2013, the same question. Mr. Pachi Vázquez, 13 March 2013, asked yourself, they also raised questions, the same question. Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, September 11, 2013, is the same question. And your predecessor, Mr. Caballero, Mr. Leicega, June 6, 2018, is the same question. All the answers are in the Journal of Sessions, there's not a single new information about the different answers and the different questions of this recast that you are now asking. Look, Your Honor, we were the first to warn about the unfortunate delitiva conduct of members of the People's Party and of relevant positions and persons in the structure of the People's Party; we were the first to apologize, and I take advantage of it to do it again. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, all we want is for you to do justice at once, for those responsible to clarify themselves, for them to impose themselves and for them to pronounce judgments, and for them to fulfil their sentences. We've heard everything, well-founded complaints, unfounded complaints, logical criteria, continuing infamy... there you are! Now, if it turns out that you are part of Mr. Basel's defence strategy, which wants to attribute dishonesty to this parliamentary group and this political party, I tell you that we are not going to accept it. And we are not going to accept it because these 42 Members and Members have nothing to learn from the opposition Members and Members of both the BNG and the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we apologize, those responsible have been expelled. And if there's someone who's not yet expelled and he's responsible, he'll have to get out of the game. And, of course, we take necessary measures and reforms. For 18 years he was ruling the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It was the People's Party who reformed the law to impose criminal responsibility on political parties. It was the People's Party that characterized the crime of illegal financing of parties. It was the People's Party that increased the years of disability and prescription deadlines for cofa and influence trafficking. It was the People's Party who reformed the Law of Contracts to prohibit tendering to convicted companies. And it was the People's Party that called anonymous donations to political parties and the granting of credits to political parties as illegal. This is what the Spanish Socialist Workers Party knows very much, very much. Hundreds of millions of euros were forgiven to the Socialist Party by the banking institutions. And at the autonomic level I had the opportunity to attend; Mrs. Pontón, as everyone knows, was already a Member of Parliament at that time. Well, I appeared in this House, in the plenary of the House, and we proposed 51 measures to prevent it from happening in any case in a public administration -- at least in this -- which is related to certain behaviors in other public administrations; 51 measures and reforms of 3 laws, prohibition of donations to physical persons when they are related to contractors, Law 9/2015. We assigned to the Board of Auditors the prevention of corruption, Law 8/2015. And we passed a new Law of transparency and good government, ascribing these powers to the People's Valedor, Law 1/2016. What does all this prove? That all the state legal amendment and the autonomous amendment was approved the proposal of the People's Party, with a vote against the Socialist Party and the BNG. I suppose you'll have some explanation. Look, if you intend, as they appear today, another falsehood because they don't say so, as witnesses, not as defendants, Mr. Knight. As accused and convicted, there are already enough leaders of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Murmurs.]] It's funny that last week, one of the great leaders of the Socialist Party in Lugo, sentenced to 5 years in prison, and he's got even more pending trials, you come here to teach lessons and to ask an explanation to a Government who never had a accused person in 12 years. Mrs. Pontón, I am very glad that the BNG government member in the biparty was not convicted, but of four advisers who had 25 % accused and tried. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They laugh, they usually laugh about what's happening to them. Ladies and gentlemen, these militants of the Galician People's Party are in no way involved, and these 42 Members and the governments who had the opportunity to preside have never been convicted of any sentence. Now, it seems like you're saying around that you want to see me and wake me up last morning. The truth is, I'm not very quiet after this control session. Do you really want to wake up after what you're saying?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u9	Look, if they take off the costume of celebrron writers and put on a suit of a member of Parliament or a Welsh Member to talk about Galicia, they'll find me. Now, if you come from correspondents of your political parties in Madrid, then you will understand that you will find a president of Galicia speaking of Galicia and some correspondents of the television culebron speaking of Madrid. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u10	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President-in-Office, your speech today has been a huge irresponsibility. Because what lies behind his words is to suggest that in times of pandemic the People's Party can maintain impunity when it has to assume responsibilities for corruption. What you're actually saying is that, given the situation of gravity of the pandemic, which we've shared from now on, and which we've prioritized, we shouldn't talk about corruption. [[Applause]] What you're telling the People's Party is that, as there's now a pandemic, there's nothing wrong with corruption. What you're telling the Greeks and the Greeks is that nothing happens if you steal the money because you can't talk now, because you can't explain it. [[Applause]] I am surprised that today we come to Parliament in Galicia to ask you whether you have consented and there has been a box B of the People's Party in Galicia and you do not want to give answers, and the argument you make is absolutely a failure for citizens. [[Murmurs.]] May you say, Mr. Feijóo, that talking about a plot of corruption in the PP is to set up a television culver is a failure in respect of the courts, who have already decreed that the PP had a genuine and effective system of corruption, says the judgment. That Mr. Fraga, Luis Fraga, Senator for 21 years, points out that the papers of Basel have all the credibility and that two weeks ago Mr. Bárcenas, who you put him as the manager or executive of the People's Party, the treasurer you put in, says in court that there are 50,000 euros that were the last operation in the PP's box that came out of the P.P. of Pontevedra. That the P.P. of Pontevedra didn't want to do it through the bank so he wouldn't leave a record, that he handed it over in hand, and that he delivered in 2 about those 50,000 euros to Cospedal and Rajoy. You have to answer, you have to explain, you can't try to use the pandemic for a smoke curtain in which you welcome corruption, where you escape from giving an answer and condemning PP practices. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, how we're not going to talk about something that's being talked about today all over the world. You don't read the international press today, do you know that two former government presidents are going to the judicial headquarters? As you don't know what's going on in Spain and prefer to be an accomplice to PP corruption instead of coming here and explaining... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u12	Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u13	...that's what you heard when I was presiding over the PP. Because Operation Kitchen, Mr. Feijóo, is something that happened when you also chaired the Senate and chaired the Galician PP, of which you have not yet made an account here in the Galician Parliament. And they say the information that in Operation Kitchen the only accountancy of a popular regional party that was stolen and disappeared was that of Galician PP. [[Murmurs.]] A lot of curiosity. The PP's box B and the Gürtel plot began with Crespo, who was head of Galicia's PP, and ended with an operation of the B box made with money coming from Pontevedra and which, according to Bárcenas, were in the pockets of Cospedal and Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u14	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u15	It's time for you to step...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u16	Quiet, please. Quiet... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u17	...the floor, that I speak to the Greeks and the Greeks about something that concerns us, the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u18	Finish, please, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u19	The pandemic is of maximum gravity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u20	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u21	...but just when there's a crisis situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u22	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u23	...is when exemplaryness, transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u25	...and the fight against corruption must be stronger and sharper than ever. And today you did an irresponsibility exercise trying to run forward, without explaining what happened with the PP accounts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u26	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u27	...which occurred with the accounts of Galician PP today, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u28	Thank you, Mr. Knight, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u29	...your answer is not in line...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u30	Thank you, thank you, your time is up. [[Applause]] Quiet, please. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u31	The truth is, Mr. Feijóo, you are very predictable. He has no ability to surprise us, and today he comes here to do what he always does, to throw balloons out, not assume his responsibilities, and I imagine that in the last round of closure, when we no longer have the opportunity to respond, he'll use it as usual to ignite political debate. It's his style and his way of dealing with the debate in this House. [[Murmurs.]] And the truth is, I wonder if you believe that time is a cloak with which you can cover the corruption your party has systematically installed in politics, not only in the Spanish state as a whole, but in the information we have, also in the way of the Galician People's Party. And it's certainly incredible that you're trying to use a pandemic to try to hide the corruption of the People's Party. It's just that it's not presentable either with pandemic or without pandemic, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Because, look, the problem is not that you ask yourself about corruption, the problem is that we exist and we have doubts about what are the links that corruption is to the People's Party, because there are accusations with the People's Party in Galicia, because there are accusations that are very serious and that you haven't answered or said anything at all. And we're talking about facts that also happened supposedly during the time that you were already president of the People's Party. And, look, let's talk about hummingbird seeing what's going on in the National Audience, frankly, Mr. Feijóo, you have to be brave, you have to be brave, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And I don't think there's any member of the People's Party convicted of corruption in terms of giving us lessons in dignity or democracy; I think, Mr Feijóo, what they should do is really to explain things that are very serious and that we will certainly not accept that you don't say anything in this House. Because, look, your problem is that you are so used to coming to Parliament not to answer that you are unable to distinguish between what a control session means, which is our obligation as opposition, but also your obligation as President of the Board to render accounts in this Parliament, which even confuses the control session with what the dialogue has to be, which for us is of course something important in the midst of this crisis and this pandemic. I think mixing both things is a mistake and, of course, it's not the escape valve you need. What you have to do is explain some very serious facts that directly mark the Galician People's Party in box B. And it's true, Mr. Feijóo -- and finished --... [[Pause.]] Don't I know if I can go on?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u32	Go on. Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Please, let's have a normal debate. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u33	Well, thank you very much. Look, Mr. Feijóo, it's true that we've been having a very hard year, fighting against a pandemic which is having devastating consequences and which is causing a lot of suffering in our society. And you must also give an answer to the Greeks and to the Greeks to a question that many and many of us ask ourselves. How much money could Gürtel's plot have spent on public health?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u34	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u35	How many homes of older people could have built with the money that the People's Party stole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u36	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u37	...on the Gürtel plot and box B.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u39	How much help could there be to people who are currently suffering the consequences of the crisis? Those are the answers you have to give them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u40	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u41	...to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And, of course, I'm sorry, Mr Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u43	... that here again not to give answers and to throw balloons out, when we're talking about the corruption of the People's Party, a corruption believed in sentence and which also points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u44	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u45	... directly the People's Party in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u47	It's an example of how you don't surrender...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u48	Your time is up. Thank you. Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u49	You've been trying to wear the Galician People's Party for 12 years. In the 2009 elections in the election campaign, the so-called Gürtel case came out. And you did, of course, a series of direct accusations to the People's Party in Galicia because there was a person who enlisted in the People's Party in Galicia, who was expelled from the People's Party in Galicia by President Fraga. And you've been mounted and you've been mounting different chapters -- I insist, of this culebron -- against the Galician People's Party, which is not charged in any case or accused in any case, nor has you any judgment, of course, in any case of corruption or irregular funding. You've been asking for 12 years, 12 years, I've been answering, and most importantly, the Greeks decide. You have been 12 years old, in the 2009 elections, in the 2012 elections, in the elections of 2016, in the elections of 2020 and the Greeks said very clearly: look, let's trust the People's Party of Galicia because it's a reliable party, and it's a party you can trust to govern. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, if for 12 years all the attacks on the People's Party of Galicia and for 12 years all the attacks on the governments of Galicia are zero and you are based on the Gürtel case or the matter of Basel, continue. I won't let them down. Everything that affects the PP is reprehensible, everything that affects the Socialist Party and the BNG is understandable, of course. That's your idea of corruption. Look, let's go back to making a statement that is not exempt from infamy and slander, like saying that the former presidents of the People's Party Government are in a trial. As witnesses, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When you are called upon to testify to some allegedly irregular conduct by some of the councils of the Socialist Party, will you be accused or will you simply cooperate with justice? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, what's obvious and approved is that there's 680 million euros of public money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u50	Quiet, Mr. Knight, quiet. It's your turn. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u51	...Assembly of Andalusia, ladies and gentlemen, 680 million euros of public money, assembly of Andalusia that led the socialist leaders, with people. More than 200 people are convicted. And you come here to talk about corruption without discerning, it's curious. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is no open cause against the People's Party and you come here to teach lessons on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And one very surprising thing, Your Honor: there is no president of the People's Party condemned. You do, you have a president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party convicted, convicted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if it's 1 or 2, I'm sorry, because I don't want anyone to be convicted and much less after I'm president of a party, like the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and being president of an autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been saying the same thing for 12 years. I will read a press headline from the last one: "I despise and regret the corruption discovered in my party. I despise and regret the corruption discovered in my party." So already, Mrs. Pontón, because you also asked me in 2018, did what I was supposed to do, Mrs. Pontón: "Do you intend to use Galicia as a VIP room waiting for your plane to Madrid?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You won't say you're not tired, Mrs. Pontón, certainly tired. And the BNG measuring stick, for look, now it turns out that you're going to present an investigation commission; ahead. What's surprising is that, when an investigation commission is presented in front of a mayor of the Block a few days ago, that is, by acts that are on Pontevedra Street, and that people comment on them, and that affects people at the BNG in Pontevedra and the BNG family members in Pontevedra, the BNG and the PSOE vote against, and they want an investigation commission when there are judicial issues that have been in court for decades. Are you really serious? Look, I showed up in this House, and I remember you bringing the whole list of companies that say the People's Party had favor deals, 2,500 contracts with 16 companies. You know these companies when they got more contracts, during the four years of the bipartisan. They're handed over to the House, and you're still quiet. Tell Mrs Pontón that they are predictable; indeed. Do you know what concerns me most at this time, Mrs. Pontón? I've been trying to ask the Delegation of the Government of Galicia for permission to CRP at the Greek airports and railway stations. The answer is "that is being processed and needs to be approved by the AENA Board of Directors, which meets once a month." How can I not care about the pandemic, Mrs. Pontón? This is my first concern, or do you think I'm an irresponsible man who will now compete with the BNG to remind you of all the disabled mayors of the BNG? What's he saying? Don't worry that the vice president will comment on you. Or all the disabled mayors of the Socialist Party, but Galicia, not Valladolid or Madrid; no, not Galicia, Mrs. Pontón. Don't worry, you and the Socialist Party of Galicia. But, look, as they're predictable, I've come here to realise, of course, these twelve years of questions and control sessions and to tell them that I think we have a meeting last morning; I don't know if they're really going to come with this or I'm going to come with other things. What concerns me is that they don't use the law of public health. They don't use a government to do their duty and a Parliament to dictate a law to manage the pandemic. He'll do VOX too. Well, everything seems to indicate that there's a closer relationship between the Government and the VOX. Look, to me, what concerns me is the new architecture of schools, and the new architecture of old-age residences. What I'm worried about is that the rescue plans for self-employed and micro-enterprises are working, the joint ventures are working, the Spanish government's are again taking more than 100 million euros away from us. Here I am concerned about the industrial crisis, that crisis that you are pushing from Madrid, with the visa and pleasure of some of the nationalists. That's what I'm going to tell you, gentlemen. I'm going to tell you about the delay of the Greek buses, all of them delayed or paralyzed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u53	...the road between Lugo and Ourense, paralyzed, and the road between Lugo and Santiago, delayed. And to me what concerns me, Your Honor, is to make a reasonable proposal for the Next Generation projects, and that's why tomorrow at the Board of Trustees we're going to make a dedicated advice, a monographic council to approve all the Next Generation projects that we're presenting and that we're going to continue to present. This is what concerns me, ladies and gentlemen. You really didn't want to talk about this? I have no problem talking about all this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u55	Now, how will you understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u56	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u57	...how predictable I come here talking about Galicia. I come here to talk about the Government of Galicia, I come here to talk about the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, I come here to talk about the People's Party of Galicia if they ask me and I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u58	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u59	...that this party, this government and this group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u60	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u61	He's never had any cause since I'm president of the board. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u62	Thank you. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Guadalupe Murillo Solís and five other Members, on the action of the Galician Board to address the Government of Spain to promote the appropriate changes in state legislation with the aim of reducing the tax rate on added value from 21 % to 10 % in all sports and physical services provided to individuals who are not already exempt from existing legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u63	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its honourable Member, Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this table the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendment:The decisive part of the initiative must be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to make a declaration of alarm in the context of a state declaration of alarm as a result of a health emergency, and where health circumstances advise it:1o. To recognize Physical Activity and Sport as "Essential Activity" because it is and has a clear benefit for the health of people who practice it, making it the essence of the context of the Covid-19 health pandemic, within the framework of the declaration of physical activity and sport as a matter of general interest.2o. Take the necessary measures to ensure the protection and continuity of professional services provided in the field of physical and sporting activities and directed towards the whole of society.3 Ensuring people who require special attention, because of age, physical or psychic capacity, or pathologies, that they continue to receive physical exercise services provided by staff with qualifications in physical activity and sport.4o. To issue certificates for physical and sports practice supervised by staff with fitness in exercise and sport, in cases where it is necessary to believe the displacement of persons who practice physical activity and sport.5 Promote awareness campaigns to combat sedentaryism and the health risks of physical inactivity.6o. To include the sports sector in plans and actions, including those of direct aid, empowered to alleviate the economic consequences resulting from the paralysis or decrease of activity."]] To defend the non-law proposition, Mrs. Murillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. It compares the People's Group at Parliament's plenary session to win everyone's support for an initiative. I think it's totally done at the moment we're living. We will ask the Galician Council to transfer to the Government of Spain our application for a discount of VAT for any provision of sports services and physical activity so that the application of the reduced VAT rate of 10 % is not already envisaged. Why for the sport? Because it's a sector that, even if it doesn't go out on the street, is undoubtedly one of the sectors most affected by the restrictions adopted to curb the expansion of the covid-19 and because it's a cross-sectional activity. Their practice brings benefits to health, to the economy, and also to the social environment. It's a priority. And why are we talking about IVE? Because it's the most appropriate tax to reactivate consumption in these complicated times. And why now? Because this crisis needs effective measures and as soon as they avoid definitive closures. Article 43.3 of the Spanish Constitution provides that public administrations shall promote health education, physical education and sport. This commitment to promoting sport by public administrations is incorporated into the article devoted to constitutional protection of the right to health, so, in the current situation where health is the fundamental axis around which all other public policies revolve, physical activity must be promoted as a useful tool for improving the well-being of our population, and today more than ever because of the impact caused by coward 19. The opportunity of this proposal must not escape anyone; sport is an activity present in the life of a large part of our population, being declared of general interest by Congress of Members last year at the beginning of this health crisis without any vote against it. In Spain 19 million people are declared active, nine and a half million people declare that they perform physical activity regularly, five and a half million Spaniards are habitual users of sports centres and services, and four million are those who practice federal sports. Only in Galicia 280.000, according to data from the sports statistics Yearbook for the year 2019. Sport is health; physical activity provides for various diseases and diseases. Recent studies believe that the estimated risk of some diseases can be doubled due to sedentaryism, in particular physical inactivity is one of the main causes of at least 35 chronic diseases. Data from the Ministry of Health relate more than 50,000 deaths per year directly to sedentaryism, almost 13.4% of those registered in Spain, generating health costs of more than €5,000 million due to physical inactivity. This pandemic has shown more clearly than ever the importance and necessity of physical activity for all. The Lancet, a specialized scientific journal, published a study on the impact of physical activity on health, pointing out that the cost of physical inactivity in the world has reached almost 67,000 million euros in 2013. The data for 2020 on the costs generated by diseases due to sedentaryism in Spain are calculated at millions of euros. Recent data on the incidence and severity of covid in Spanish patients showed that obesity is one of the main responsible for the worst medical results achieved in relation to the number of patients infected in Spain. Even so, the report Obesity, confinement and curfew-19, conducted by the Spanish Society of Obesity, in July of last year, revealed that 44% of Spaniards fattened during the confinement of between one and three kilograms a half kilograms for leading a more sedentary lifestyle. Finally, the study of the impact of COVID 19 on the Spanish sport ecosystem, carried out by the Spanish Sport Association, the Spain Active Foundation and the Higher Council of Sports, concludes that the practice of physical activity and sport is one of the most effective solutions to build a more capable, happier and more sustainable society. The benefits of this activity, ladies and gentlemen, for health are evident. But nobody escapes that sport, as an economic and social activity, has been one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic. Sports activity is being one of the last to return to normal and needs specific and effective measures that soon allow for its recovery. Losses in the sector are already announced about 38% of their turnover by the year 2020 as a whole. We are talking about an activity carried out by around 37,500 companies in Spain, which employed more than 214,000 citizens in 2019, of which 51.8 % were under 34 years of age, according to the data of this same yearbook I have just reported. Sport is one of the sectors that work the most, the most young jobs. Galicia is Spain's fourth community, Spain's fourth community in number of companies dedicated to the world of sport, and 85% of these are sports facilities, clubs and sports associations and gymnasiums. You can all imagine the defeat. The pandemic generated by the covid-19 had a major impact on sport; restrictions were particularly severe with the sector: suspension of sports activities, suspension of autonomous sports competitions, unsustained ones had new very restrictive regulations, new costs to be assumed, public limitation and total closure of facilities in the case of gymnasiums and sports centres. Given this exposure and knowing that sport is clearly a cross-cutting activity, by its effect on health, so it represents the sports industry in our economy -- 1.3% of our GDP -- and by its effect as a social activator in eliminating inequalities, ladies and gentlemen, the world of sport needs our support and physical activity, our promotion. The reduction in VAT, an indirect tax on consumption, at a time like what we're living, with an economic recession due to the pandemic of covid-19, can be one of the keys to economic reactivation for this sector. In 2012, the year of economic crisis, after the departure of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero of the Spanish Government, when everything was sinking and the Spanish rescue seemed the only option of salvation, the resilience of Spaniards, the adjustments in public spending and the tax rise allowed the control of institutions by the Government of the country, and little by little an economic improvement which soon led to an important rise in the number of people employed. It was at that time that the VAT in sports services services rose from 8% to 21 in which it is now. Since then, and in the face of economic improvement, that 2012 tax rise has been reduced, turning some types of VAT to 10% in 2017 and 2018, as happened with the cultural VAT, not yet recovering this reduction in the case of sport and the provision of services linked to physical activity. The current crisis, which is very different from 2012, has particularly affected certain sectors of the economy that have completely or partially closed down 12 months of the year, so they also deserve a different answer. IVE is not the best tool to conquer social rebalancing, it is not the right instrument to redistribute wealth among the population, but it is a useful tool to promote policies to promote healthy habits, as it is a fully linked tribute to consumption. And that's what we're going to talk about, the reactivation of consumption, the reactivation of physical activity and the promotion of sport consumption, that activity that has been stopped for so many months in the pandemic and that has to go back. VAT is a tax paid by the consumer, moving his income to the taxable subject providing the service, but ultimately paid by the final consumer. The lowering of this tax will have an impact on the price of services, making this activity more attractive. The reduced types of VAT, like any tax policy instrument, have an objective: in this case, to reduce goods and services considered essential for the population, thereby promoting their consumption. This is our goal, to gain an increase in the consumption of sports practice beneficial to health and the economy by reducing the tax burden. In comparative law we found tax reductions in almost every country in Europe at a time like this, Germany lowers VAT to the hostel, Ireland lowers VAT to tourism and so we could continue talking about hours and hours of fiscal policy, but I'm afraid this is not the forum. Any aid that enhances sport and physical activity will be positively valued by the sector, but mainly the decrease in VAT to be applied in quotas to charge users of sports facilities services will make this service much more attractive to the population, thus promoting physical activity in an important and less burdensome way for public buildings. We must ask the Government of Spain to move forward in this reduction. As you know, the direct support of the Galician board for this year has been published last month, increasing sports budgets by 28 percent, and also helping clubs and sports entities by 100 percent. Non-specific tips for sport, but where self-employed and gymnasiums are included, have also been approved on these same dates. Even so, I would like to recall the deduction in the full autonomous quota of the IRPF by the aids and subsidies received by high-level sportsmen in Galicia, approved in last year's Budget Act the proposal of the Galician Union. And we continue: I hope that in the reactive committee we will also reach a consensus among the political groups of this House that will allow aid for the bonus of municipal fees, deductions in quotas for the provision of sports services or federal licences or any other measure that will temporarily reduce certain economic burdens assumed by the world of sport at such a complex time as this one. On the basis of the above, I ask your ladies to support this initiative, for the sake of the Greek sports sector, for the sake of the Greek population, and for the sake of the health of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Murillo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The certainty is that when we read the People's Party's PNL in its exhibition, the socialists coincided with 100 percent of its exhibition. We agree on the importance of regular physical activity to improve the health, quality of life and the well-being of citizenship. We also agree with Article 2 of the Galician Sports Act, which recognises the special roles played by sport in society, in the fields of education, training and culture, in improving public health, in promoting social cohesion, and in developing with regard to the environment. And we also agree on public interest. The political hypocrisy of the People's Party comes when you ask to change what you yourself have approved. The VVI of the provision of sports services and physical activity to physical persons was increased in 2012, from 8% to 21%, under the Government in the state of Mr. Rajoy, i.e. that increase was approved by the same political group that brings this initiative here today. In addition, in 2018, the People's Party voted against an exactly equal PNL in Congress, at last. [[Applause]] Socialists understand that the physical activity of sport was so important to improve health, for the quality of life and the well-being of citizenship in 2012 as it is now in 2021. Or did the Galician People's Party just discover the goodness of sport? I know you're not specific, but the People's Party probably does. Look, the People's Party, when it governs, takes steps to diminish the rights of citizenship, to prejudge public services or to blame other administrations, in which it does not rule, of course, make them responsible for their own failures. But when he governs, he tries to distort the government's management, they make an opposition based on lies, noise and political blunder, and, in the face of a pandemic like the one we're living in, he gets in the way of helping and agree to alleviate the devastating effects of coward 19 on health, on the economy and on society as a whole; finally... In order to be able to estimate the importance of sport in our country, even though you have already pointed out some data, because both in your work, economic and commercial aspects, we must turn to the data, which are the best information that gives us. Well, the 2020 sports statistics Yearbook published by the Ministry of Culture and Sport and data for 2019, tells us that the number of people employed in Spain in 2019 in sports-related jobs was nearly 220,000 people, i.e. 1.1% of the total number of people employed in the state; that companies with major economic activity linked to sport were also 1.1% of the total businesses, of which in Galicia was 6.2% of the national total; that in 2019 more than 1 billion in sports-related goods were exported to Spain and that in 2019 more than 10.3 million tourists entered Spain to engage in sports activities with a expenditure of 12.7 million euros; that we had nearly 4 million federal sportsmen in 2019 -- of them 7% in Galicia -- and 75,000 federal clubs, of which 7.7 were also in Galicia. Therefore, the importance of sport is not questionable. It's important, however, to remember the importance given by the Government of the People's Party to the practice of sport in Galicia. Now, in view of the fact that the Galician Autonomy Statute, in its Article 27 -- something you have forgotten to appoint -- gives the Autonomous Community of Galicia exclusive competence in promoting sport and the proper use of leisure. Well, if we look at that same yearbook -- which you also referred to -- and we see the expenditure liquidated in sport in 2018 by the Galician Union, against the expenditure liquidated in sport by local governments, because we have the expenditure settled in 2018 in Galicia was 22.3 million euros, that is, 0.2% of the consolidated budget of the Galician Union for that exercise. While local administrations in Galicia for the same year liquidated 122 million euros. Of which 109 correspond to the municipalities. In other words, the Greek municipalities dedicated the sport in 2018 to 447% more than the German Government for that same exercise. Well, the arrival of the vault and the consequences of the necessary measures taken to prevent the spread of the virus, such as confinement, perimeter closures, restrictions on mobility or social distancing, had a severe impact on the economy as a whole, but especially in certain sectors that had to paralyze virtually all their activity for several months or with very limited openings. It should also be recalled that the state of alarm was in force until June 21, when autonomous communities recovered the management of the health crisis in their territories, a management that was repeatedly claimed by several communities, particularly by President Feijóo. In view of this situation, the Government of Spain immediately released a number of measures to support companies and autonomous people, providing them with liquidity through public-aid and moratorium credits in their main tax debts, repayment of credits and contributions; with actions to reduce their fixed and variable costs; with direct aid for the payment of wages and contributions to Social Security through ERTE or relief measures for the payment of rents, and providing them with income, with an extraordinary allowance for self-employed workers and transfers of resources to autonomous communities for them to meet extraordinary health and education costs, but also to provide direct assistance to companies most affected by health decisions taken in their municipal term. In other words, the Government of the State, in order to preserve the liquidity and solvency of companies and self-employed people, has reached 140 billion euros, of which a very important part has been transferred to autonomous communities to meet the needs derived from the cover-19 in their territory. So the Galician Union has since the beginning of the crisis with resources that would enable it to deal with the situations of businesses and self-employed people affected by the crisis. Where are those resources? What counts did the Government add to meet the situation of companies and self-employed with activities related to sports practice? What help did the German Government bring to the federal sport? Well, look, the government of the state has continued to put resources into the economy in support of the solvency of strategic companies, periods of shortage and maturity in public-aid loans, extending the extraordinary public coverage of ERTEs; doesn't this affect companies? It directly affects them, directly, they are money, until May 31st. Therefore, the aid agreed by the Government of Spain has reached as a whole 20% of GDP, placing Spain among the countries throughout the European Union which have made the greatest aid available to its citizens, thus protecting financial stability and establishing the basis for economic recovery. But, look, you know perfectly well that March 13 -- a few days ago -- the Government has just issued another royal decree with EUR 11,000 million, with the objective of protecting the productive fabric until a percentage of vaccination is achieved that will restore confidence and reactivate economic activity; a first line covered by direct aid to self-employed people and businesses of EUR 7 billion, and that will be managed by autonomous communities. In the list of the 95 sectors that can benefit from these EUR 7 billion of direct aid that has just been approved by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, companies can be accessed by an economic classification such as rental of leisure and sports articles, management of sports facilities, activities of gymnasiums and other sports activities. Therefore, all activities related to the practice of sport and physical activity. Of course they are based in Spanish territory and their billing dropped at least 30% by 2020, and with the obvious commitment to maintain activity and not to distribute dividends. Well, these aids -- as I told you before -- will be managed directly by the autonomous communities, and they can be destined to reduce debt, pay the suppliers and pay fixed costs. Since then, the Galician Union will again count on a series of very important resources to address the most affected sectors in its territory. And the socialists and the socialists will be very attentive, very careful that each of these euros will be allocated to the Greek Government, if you really will care for the companies and self-employed in your territory that are suffering the greatest. By the way, we tabled a substitution amendment, which was practically the same amendment that was negotiated in Congress and we hope that the People's Party will understand and respond to this amendment to be unanimously approved by the House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Castro García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u68	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all and all. Well, today, the People's Party brings us back one of these proposals that we can say they have a little bit of a trap, right? A proposal that is undoubtedly beneficial, a proposal that is undoubtedly interesting and will surely be beneficial to the sector, but which, on the contrary, is contrary to the policies that even the People's Party carries out in our country. I mean, a proposal that's ambitious, because it's addressed to the government of the state, but it's shocking to the reality that we live in Galicia. And we say it hits reality because today -- 24 March 2021 -- help to the sports services sector is still totally insufficient, and it doesn't just tell BNG, also tell him the Galician Platform for Physical Education Defence, Physical Activity and Sport, that again and again he's telling them that with the different rescue plans it's not enough, that they're not enough, because they're not specific to sports services and because they're insufficient and, above all, prohibitive, they leave out of the same help to the vast majority of the sector. And it's just that, as you usually say, to show a button, then we're going to put on a very common case, which is most of the sector, of any self-employed or self-employed sportsman -- and then you'll tell me, if you want, of course, of course -- if you consider your situation to be normal. We speak after the considered autonomous and autonomous sports, and of companies related to sport. As you know -- I know you know --, it's a sector that has been booming since the last few years, in which more and more fortunate people want to practice sports and want to do it in a guided, professional and as specific as possible way. I mean, he wants a professional to help them perform this activity in the best way possible. And in the same way, he also wants the most adapted and professional facilities that can be done. This led to large investments and increased recruitment in this sector, both at the beginning of 2020 and throughout 2019. Then, of course, later comes to cover-19 and causes all the causes that we all know, and then the sector comes in and tells them that billing has fallen around 30% over 2019. And then you, very well, come to the study of the impact of the cavepback pandemic on the sport ecosystem in Spain, which comes on your own initiative, and tell them that the workers and workers in this sector are going to lose around 38.5% of the 2020 turnover. Now you have to be careful about the figures, uh, you're saying the whole sector we're talking about about about 30%, and the study you're using to support your own policies, the People's Party talks about 38.5%. What is the policy of the People's Party in Galicia for help? For it is to grant non-specific, insufficient economic aid, only micro-enterprises and self-employed persons with hired staff who had at least a 45% decrease. So, of course, what do we have to understand here? That the Galician Union is against the studies it uses to assess its own policies? Or do we have to understand that the aid granted is just a facial wash and a very nice picture -- which of course is, for the gallery is a beautiful picture -- but that they're not at all used to solve the problems of the sector? I think, and since the Galician Nationalist Block we've been thinking, it's more about this, because, as we've already said, it's not just us who say that these aids aren't enough, it's the sector itself. And we repeat the same thing, they're still not specific for sport, because they're very few, because they don't cover the whole sector and because the vast majority -- and this is the worst of all -- they can't access them anyway. And all this, of course, makes it very clear again that the Galician Board is doing very well again to lay down duties for the rest of the administrations, but it's suspending again for now -- let's hope it's only for now -- in the part it plays. And since we're here, we're going to talk about other suspended people, it's been suspended again in the set-up of the FISICOVID protocol for sports facilities, which have been promising for months now that they're going to develop and for now because we're still not aware of anything about it, because besides, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, focusing on the federal sport is very good. And more than they had to focus, because in the year in which we're talking about that only the budgeted investment for federations is the same as in the previous year in the extraordinary features of this year we think it's not enough. But in addition to this, there is non-federal sport, which is of economic and health importance, and I think this requires them to pay much more attention to it. And with regard to the other things they also suspend, I, the truth, and after I've seen here in the morning, I'm going to save them a little bit of the bad drink and I'm not going to talk to them again -- promised -- about the situation of the still most excellent president of the sports federation with more relevance in this country, I'm not going to talk to them again. A few days ago the Secretary-General for Sport has already appeared in committee and has made the position of the People's Party very clear about it, they don't want to talk about it, it's a matter that bothers them, and then they're calm, we're not going to get the subject out again, the position of the People's Party I think it was quite clear about this subject and its condemnation of these acts, is it not? But, well, let's talk about the proposal. Today they bring this proposal here, a proposal that we consider positive, because the sports sector has suffered the consequences of the covid as well as it can, in some way, and we certainly hope that this proposal will be positive. And we also hope to be able to quantify it by the arrival of IGE satellite accounts by the second half of 2022, which came forward last week by the Secretary General for Sport and that we have already blessed them for their creation. That's right, we hope it's not like the arrival of Galicia's sports facility census, which has been saying it's been years since yesterday, but it's still not here today. So, that's it, that's it, we expect to have it in front of us as soon as possible. And above all, we say the importance of this IGE satellite account, because we will finally have an economic and statistical reference to the effects of the economic importance of the sports sector in our country, without having to use state-of-the-art references. So in summary, as I said. This attitude of the People's Party remains a little what we've seen since, at least, so I can talk, along this legislation, about "do what I say but not what I do" -- and it's necessary to make it so! -- where it's very easy to lay down duties on the central government, which of course is very licit and very necessary on many occasions, but which we also saw as if it extended to councils and deputies which did not have their political colour, and which also always serve as a target to cover the shames the People's Party has by depending on the subject to speak, right? In spite of this, this initiative is beneficial, it is necessary, because it is in the direction of favoring the economic and living conditions of workers and workers in the sports sector, and of course it will count on our support, because, as we always say, sport is health, it is physical health, but it is also mental health, sport is saving in our health, as well as it has well pointed out, sport is leisure too, and sport is obviously part of our economy, and for these reasons and many more any measure that goes to its benefit and protection will count on the support of the Nationalist Galego Block. And that's why we're going to vote on this initiative, waiting, that's yes, to see if at last for all the Greek Government is self-rejected in the same way that it does with the rest of the Greek and non-German institutions. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u69	Thank you, Mr. Castro García. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Murillo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u70	Thank you, President. Well, thanks for the tone of your speeches, thanks for the support of BNG, always in this legislation, I feel it's true that I have one person on the other side in the spokesperson I think you understand and you want sport I don't know if it's almost as much or more than me, but I have it very clear. Mrs. Rumbo, you came here to talk about your book, but totally. You haven't talked about VlV, you don't care about VlV, and you're going to tell me what you want, but we're talking about VlV and what I'm going to talk about again. Look, when a proposal like this has consensus in practically all the parliaments of the country, I understand that it is sustainable against those who can take the decision to support it and carry it forward. I've already spoken to you before when you made the decision to go up to the sport of 8% to 21%, I went ahead and I knew when it was done, but it's true that all the IVEs have gone down, the cultural IVE has been down for 3 years, I think the only IVEs missing to go down is that of the world of sport. But you didn't come here to talk about sport, you talked about other things. Mr. Rivera would probably talk more about sport and you talked about his book. But we're talking about sport and VlV, and about the missing VlV, of that VlV which is only now penalizing sports activities. It is the only thing that is actually missing from returning to the small type. It is true that it is done, that from the crises there are opportunities and that this can be the best opportunity for certain situations to be maintained in time with the cock of the 2012 economic crisis due to the need for the liquidity of the system to end now. There are many initiatives by very different political groups that are being presented both in Congress and in the autonomous chambers, fighting all of them for help to encourage sport in the face of the health crisis we are living in. It is a call from the sector, Mrs Rumbo, in recent times that we take into account the application of the reduced type of VAT to that sector, and you know it. This initiative is not a whim, it's not an occurrence, it's a necessity, it's of justice. I'm not going to tell you again about the exposure I made in my first speech, but rather from the street view, from the sector's view, from a sector that you also represent in this House. The crisis will be complicated, closed centers, activate stop, and a new scenario to return. Are they less sports workers than other sectors of the country? Yesterday, the application of the reduced VAT type to hairdressers, aesthetic centers was approved, and you yourself know it. It must be that the sports are less, Mrs. Rumbo. Do you know how much we owe all those people that each week spend their time working at the sports clubs and sports clubs in this country? In the face of the crisis of the coronavirus, since April last year, we have found positions of people familiar with the sports world, such as Eduardo Blanco -- the socialist leader to whom I really appreciate and you know well -- president of the Spanish Sports Managers Associations Federation, who evaluates such actions. Less VAT for more sport, as a formula to reactivate the sector. Reports from the Union of Sports Federations of Catalonia, the Official College of Physics and Sport Graduates, considerations from the National Federation of Sports Facilities Entrepreneurs and a number of associations of groups more believed, after their experience, the imperative need to reactivate the sector after this health crisis. Fundamentally because of its abundance in data and the conclusions obtained is the Survey of the Impact of the Covid on the Spanish Sports Ecosystem, carried out by the CSD. This report calls for sport to be considered as an integral and fundamental axis in the reconstruction of the country following the crisis of the coward-19. We talked about coward-19, and I told you in the first intervention why this is the moment and it wasn't before, it's now. It concludes the report that the three fundamental pillars that should guide the construction of the sport ecosystem in our country should be the following: recognition of sport as well of general interest, increase in the presence of sport and economic stimulus, aid in financing and fiscal measures by the State and local governments. It affirms this study that for the success of reconstruction it is necessary to boost sport, direct support to clubs, and support for basic sport and to acquire a new financing model. Interestingly, Mrs Rumbo, the most repeated proposal is the approach by the sector to the coordinators of the report regarding the search for a new funding was the downside of the EVV, the downside of the EVV, those answers were of 48% of all that arrived. It must be for something, Mrs. Rumbo. Look, these reports and studies I've just pointed out are at the origin of the political initiatives presented over the past few months in Spain and what I'm going to talk about. We're not just here, but you're going to go over this initiative. Junts per Cataluña, belonging to the plural group in which BNG is also present -- so I understand that they voted in favour there and are going to do it again today -- proposed the application of the reduced VAT type to the sports sector, along with other reactivation measures already in April of last year. In October of the same year it is the Socialist Group that draws forward its proposal to consider sport activity of general interest, so that it can be included in the poscovid reactivation plans, as you indicated. In February, the People's Group draws forward its proposal to consider sport as an essential activity, so that this activity can draw out the possible restrictions imposed to curb the crisis of the coward to a new confinement. But from that moment on, Mrs Rumbo, the little one most heard in autonomic parliaments, following the registration by the group of citizens in Congress, speaks of the application of reduced VAT to sports practice and physical activity. It was held on 2 February at the initiative of the People's Party in the Cantabria Parliament; on 17 the People's Group initiative in the Andalusian Parliament was approved; on 18 the Citizens' Initiative in the Madrid Assembly was approved; and now we are here, also next to the sector. I am yours, Mrs. Rumbo, of your constructive spirit in politics, but today I cannot accept your amendment, because your amendment does not bring anything. I can't accept your amendment because it has little to do with the essence of our initiative; we're talking about promoting the consumption of physical activity of sport and you're talking about considering sport as essential activity at a time of health restrictions. I cannot accept it, because it wants this parliamentary group to give up fighting for a reduction in the VAT, which is fair, to support something that is already approved in the Congress of Deputies. And I can't accept it, because, even though five of the points are a cut and take exactly from that initiative negotiated between the People's Group and the Socialist Group, the last point of its amendment, which could have made sense in today's debate, in which the Government of Spain is urged to include the sports sector in the plans created to alleviate the consequences of the paralysis of activity, the condition that you have to be advised by the health circumstances. But what health circumstances would recommend whether or not sport should be included in reactivation plans? I think it's a mistake of your initiative, of your amendment. I know this proposal, passed by Congress and supported by the People's Group, but this inclusion is limited and that one didn't have them. Accepting your amendment means making an agreement that has already been endorsed by our Members and theirs in Madrid worse, so we're not going to do it. potentiating sport, promoting physical activity and recovering as quickly as possible the sustainability and performance of the sports industry -- which is happening very badly today -- is the object of our initiative. None of the proposals I've told you about and they've come out ahead have voted against anyone; I hope this isn't the first. The people who work for sport in Galicia must be proud of what we do, Mrs. Rumbo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Murillo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the risks it presents to the health of people and the environment the state of the Ence facilities in Lourizán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u72	There is a self-amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paloma Castro Rey, through its spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal: Amendment to add a new point to the resolution of the non-law proposal which will be drafted with the following contents:"2a. To encourage the establishment of a dialogue table where all the administrations involved, the company and the representatives of the workers and workers are found in order to reach an agreement on the future of Cence in Galicia."]] [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego (BNG), the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Additional amendment:Add two new points with the following text:"3. Work together with the government of the state and the company for the transfer of the ENCE factory from the River Pontevedra, as the only way to maintain its viability and guarantee jobs.4. Defend before the central government the amendment of Article 18.4 of the preliminary draft of the law of the coasts, currently in parliamentary procedure, with the addition of the following text: "The titles of occupation of the public-marital land domain linked to the development of aquaculture activities, seafaring, custodians and any other related to the marine industry which is sustainable shall be excluded from this paragraph."")]] To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning. This GNP is initially motivated by Mr. Colmenares' statements, Count of Polentinos, at the end of last February at a meeting he had with the unions. A statement that seems extremely serious to us, because they warned of a purely capitalised case for the people of Pontevedra and the middle of the state of the installations of the factory in Lourizán, on the one hand; and on the other, they also made it clear what was the policy of the Ence of pressure, blackmail, of intimidation to the institutions to try to force the change of law in the state parliament, something which we certainly find intolerable and which we will not, of course, allow. But these statements, being very serious -- they're recorded, are recorded in a video -- they were just the tip of the iceberg of a real escalation of blackmail, pressure, intimidation, and violence that took its place last March 11th with an attack, a harassment, with a rush of the mayor of Pontevedra and several members of the Corporation, also with a violent attitude against the mayor, with blows and kicks at his car. And this wasn't an incident, it wasn't just insults, it was a very serious fact that -- we insist -- we must condemn, that we must categorically and consistently refuse, also by the Group and the People's Party. Because they've also been aware that they've gone from the line, they've passed a lot from the line. And, in fact, the People's Party and the company -- which are in practice a unit of destiny in the universal -- gave orders to these people who made this attack to lower the piston, and it's already seen itself in these last few days. Although it follows, as we see, the blackmail and pressure campaign, which is a mafia campaign -- it cannot be called otherwise -- because it is a campaign that attempts to force the democratic will of institutions and of Parliament. And this time we have to tell the People's Party that's passed. This was done in the 60s of the last century. This was also done in 2016 with an indecent extension to the pastry in Lourizán. But there are many people who don't accept this, there are many people who don't sell; and of course, BNG won't sell and won't consent to an attack on these characteristics. [[Applause]] And the situation has changed a lot over the last two weeks, it's changed a lot of the panorama and so we've brought a self-amendment with two points. One of them is for the Galician Union to lead the moment we're now working to move the Ring out of the river, because I'll explain it to you after there's no other way out. And also a self-amendment, an amendment to clarify the wording and, therefore, to amend the wording of article 18 of the Law on the Back to make it clear what interests must be defended by that article. And before I go into these issues, I think it's necessary to think about Ence, about Pontevedra's hive, about Galicia, and also about the sense of politics. Because the topic of Ence, Mr. President, I don't know if there's any kind of... it's annoying that they're talking about. [[Murmurs.]] If they don't mind getting out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u74	You're absolutely right. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, no; silence all. It was everywhere. Half a minute ago there was him on all sides, Mr. Bará. But Mr Bará is absolutely right. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u75	He said that the Ence case gives to write a handbook on lies, falsehood, deception, betrayal, absolute lack of principles, moral lowness, manipulation, misrepresentation of institutions, political trilerism and corruption of the rotating doors. All of this learned from what has happened in recent years to Ence. And we could start this story a long time earlier, but I'm going to start in 2009, which is when you entered the Union Government. And in that year in May they made an extraordinary board of assembly in Pontevedra where Mr. Fêsóo said the famous phrase that "Ence can't continue in the stream of Pontevedra, we're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." This is the credibility that the word of Mr. President of the Union deserves. And shortly afterwards, the following month, he said that he had met with the director of Ence and that he had clearly communicated to him that they had to get out of the river and that that was his personal decision, and that there was no other way out: "He transmitted to Arregi that it is not possible to keep Ence in the river," that is June 26, 2009. After that, Parliament's agreement of 2010 unanimous for the exit of the factory: "Agusín Hernández points out that the transfer of Ence is absolutely irrevocable" -- we're in 2011 --. Hernández says that "keep Ence would be a fraud", words of the Councillor for the Environment and Infrastructure of Galicia in 2011: "keep Ence would be a fraud." You committed a fraud, these are the words of the People's Party. Agustín Hernández emphasizes that Ence has enough time to carry out a transfer: "Junta continues to urge the Ence and Elnosa to plan the orderly retreat." These are statements by the Government of Junta, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. But, of course, then came a change of the Law of backs that we already know for what it was, it was to favor private interests of private companies, of industries that should not be on land of the earthly public domain. Because it clearly says it to the Law of Back: you can follow there those companies that have ties to the sea, directly to the sea, and that have no other way of being there. But those who can move because they have no link to the sea must move. That is the spirit of the Back Law of 2013. What's wrong? That you, by order of Madrid, by order of Genoa of envelopes B, by order of the IBEX and by order of the rotating doors, have changed their position and moved to the service of Ence, to the service of their interests. We've seen it clear with everything that's happened in recent times. And that's why the extension of January 20, 2016, which is an absolutely indecent decision made by a government in functions, when there is a government law in functions that clearly says that these kinds of decisions cannot be made. And that's why Mr. Rajoy has been declared an ungrateful person in Pontevedra, and it still seems strange to them. The Count of Polentinos was also declared ungracious in Pontevedra. This extension is pending a judicial decision -- as we know -- of the National Audience. Regardless of what happens to this judicial decision, BNG understands that the factory cannot continue there; that there are legal reasons, that there are environmental reasons, that there are urban reasons, there are public health reasons, there are safety reasons so that the factory doesn't go there. Because in the 1960s the factories were put on top of the creeks, but in the 21st century we can't do this. You can't set up a factory and keep a factory like this a mile from a city that has 80,000 inhabitants, it's absolutely irrational. So there are two options: change the site factory or change the location laugh. If you had to choose, you'd choose to change the noise of the site, because you're bound like a shovel to the interests of the Ence pastry; but that can't therefore be moved to the factory. And you have to sit down and talk. We have a unique opportunity for Junta to deal with this process, which joins the company, that joins the central government and the unions and that they really work to lead that move, which is the only possible way out -- we insist -- is the only possible way out. And besides, it would be a very beneficial way out in all directions, but also in the sense that it has to do with work, with jobs, because it would allow you to double work, doubling jobs. There would be more work in the Pontevedra creek, which would be a much cleaner and cleaner laugh, because it's about recovering the rhyme that they stole from us in franchise the bayonet blow. And there would be more work with a new factory with current technology, closing the productive cycles; and that should be compatible with a new management and management of the Galician mountain, which can't also be in the service of the interests of Ence. And there would be many more jobs logically also because of the dismantling of Lourizán facilities and the recovery of these land, as predicted by both the POL and the land management guidelines. So we're convinced that this isn't easy, it's very difficult. But they didn't choose us to make it easy, they chose them to make it difficult; I'd say they even chose us to make it impossible. It's looking for the impossible to achieve as much as possible, and the history of humanity is full of conquests of things that seemed impossible. Well it's time to be realistic and do the impossible, and we're going to be the first to do this, they've done it in other cities, they've managed to remove installations like these that were in places they shouldn't be. So I end up asking for a big effort, because there's a great opportunity -- as I said -- a great effort from all institutions to work hand in hand to get this transfer. And to do so for the sake of Pontevedra's laugh, for the sake of Pontevedra's city, for health, for safety and also for work. For more and better work in Galicia, in the stream of Pontevedra, Ence out of the river.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. From the Socialist Group we want to condemn the attitude of the Ence company in relation to its future in Galicia. We believe that the words of the other day, two weeks ago, of the deputy councillor, in which he talks about the environmental danger......and for people are another way of pressuring workers, but we understand that, although we see it as a form of blackmail rather than reality, we do believe that it is the responsibility and obligation of the board to carry out an inspection that checks the security conditions of the pastry, as requested by the initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the last two years, the People's Party and the company have been taking advantage of the legal uncertainty in which the money can be found for politics. If we close our eyes and listen to the speech, we don't know if you're talking about the deputy councilman of Ence, the first vice president of the board or the second vice president, because he doesn't change a comma of his speeches. The company is exerting great pressure on workers who find themselves in a situation of vulnerability, taking advantage of the uncertainty of their jobs in a clear exercise -- as I said -- blackmail and manipulation. Using these to make politics against the Socialist Party, in a speech that is totally false; and also using a part of a union as an executional arm to generate a social conflict in my territory, and all that with the convolence and incitement of the People's Party, which seeks only to wear out the Socialist Government. From the People's Party they know this, and in this way they're intentionally transferring this false speech to the workers to make, I repeat, political action against the Socialist Party. They know that the situation in which Ence is found, the uncertainty about his permanence is because the last concession granted is judicialized. They know that the reason why you're judicialized is a decision by the People's Party to grant the company an extension, at a moment of discount when the Government of Mariano Rajoy was in office. They do not now intend to blame Article 18.4 of the Climate Change Act, since they know above all that, if the extension had been granted in compliance with the law, the adoption of this law and this article would not have affected anything in this concession. They still know the principle of retroactivity of unfavorable provisions as a basic constitutional principle, so it would not affect the adoption of this law to the granting of the pastry, I repeat, if it had been done in compliance with the law. I would also like to address the Members of the BNG in this House and ask them not to understand the speech to the People's Party in connection with this article 18.4 of the Climate Change Act, because it is a false speech. You know, and you know that, too, the fellows of the Galego Nationalist Block in Pontevedra, which is why they openly expressed themselves in favour of this article 18.4 and the approval of the Climate Change Act. On the other hand, the People's Party knows perfectly well that the problem of Ence is legal, they know it from 2003 onwards, as the member of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, said, has known since the enactment of the Law on the Heritage of Public Administrations, by the way, during the Government of Aznar. And that's why in your election program, in the 2009 election program of the Galician People's Party, they were talking about their commitment to Ence, with the transfer of the Age from its location. In the 2012 electoral program they said again: The People's Party of Galicia maintains its stakes so that Ence abandons its current placement, considering it to be irrevocable as a result of its activity around Pontevedra County. Even in 2011, what he was then municipal spokesman and now mayor of Sanxenxo, who drew the best result from the People's Party for Pontevedra, said things like, "The concession knows it's expired, you have to look for an alternative placement, Ence can't go on laughing." Now at present things have changed and the municipal representative of the Pontevedra People's Party prefers to talk about other things, like, for example, belittle the district of Ferrolterra, which I imagine would not look very good at these words to all these fellows who are here in this House of the People's Party of this district. At the present time, things have changed too. Last July, as you very much like to repeat in all your speeches, the Greeks and the Greeks gave the PP the confidence to manage Galicia. Well, I'm asking them from here to do it. So, as a competent administration, they have to get to work. You have exclusive competence in the area of industry and economic development of the territory. They can't look to the other side, they can't do demonstrations like the ones they did the other day in the press the first and second Vice President of Galicia, in an interview where they were talking about the closure of Ence in the third person, as if they weren't with them. Rueda said, "The closure and exit of Galicia of Ence is a business decision that remains outside of autonomous competition." But are we kidding? Are we talking about one of the companies that generates more economic movement in our country and says it's out of autonomic competence? Stop throwing balloons out and get to work to give a future to Cence in our territory, a future with all these jobs is good for the whole Greek economy. They are responsible and they drive from the Government of the Union a dialogue table against the future of the factory, dialogue between all the administrations involved, the Town Hall too, and also dialogue with the company and the workers to address this common challenge. Only since the dialogue and approach of positions, interests and mutual concessions will we be able to achieve this common goal, which is the permanence in Galicia and the maintenance of jobs. In that sense, I also thank the shift in BNG's position towards dialogue because, ruling in Pontevedra for 20 years, he never sat with the workers of this company who, on the other hand, are neighbors of our city. So, I'm glad of this change because intransigence I don't think it leads anywhere, we all have to choose the path of dialogue. And they've been working on industrial politics since we got together, and they can't be talking about what the government of the state does. As an autonomous administration, the Galician Union has an obligation to find legal and sustainable solutions to reconcile economic and environmental interests, a solution to reconcile the citizenship of my region with the company and to end the years of social conflict, dialogue, I insist, is the only way. Look, we've been talking for months about the opportunity of European funds to promote projects that aim to transform society and find real solutions to complex challenges, such as digitisation, ecological transition or equality. I think, therefore, that we have a historic opportunity, let's take advantage of it. I don't know if among that floating number of secret projects managed by the Government of the Union this possibility is contemplated, but it would be a great opportunity to move the company and expand its production, even allowing it to end the cycle, generating this wealth and employment in our territory. And I'm done now, don't keep doing cheap politics with this. The PP's maneuver to wear out the government is part of the political game, we understand, but it loses all legitimacy and becomes a cloaca policy when they use for this policy of wear-out the vulnerability in which some people find themselves in danger of their jobs. Stop fooling people and get to work for the future of Ence in Galicia. With regard to the amendment, BNG's self-amendment, we can honestly not understand it. I think it was made to run, if not, we don't explain that, on the one hand, at the first point, we forget to put the Pontevedra Town Hall on the negotiating table, when it's one of the most involved administrations, because we have many jobs to keep in our neighborhood and so I think the presence of that table is fundamental, and that's why we ask you for a deal with the first point, with the point of our amendment. And on the other hand, in relation to the second point, I understand that it's a mess, you talk about the Back Law when I imagine you'll refer to the Climate Change Act. And in relation to this, I also want to say that we don't understand this inclusion either, when we're talking about Ence and it doesn't correspond to the explanatory statement of the initiative, because you're talking about the marine industry. And finally, I want to say that from the Socialist Party we will always defend the economy on our coast or the value chain of the food industry sector, which for us is essential, both economically and culturally, because it is part of our identity. We will always be in favour of protecting, defending and encouraging our coastal economy, preserving it, aquaculture, shellfishing and all activities associated with these sectors, but with serious proposals, not with amendments made to run, which are also wrong legally. And let's do the right thing to defend the marine industry, because, as I said, it's one of the most important sectors of our territory. And nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Santos Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Last week, the Secretary-General of the Environment Council has already come to the Commission with all the evidence that makes it clear that Ence is a safe industry for the environment and for people as well. But, well, we have no problem repeating it to Mr Bará. All Galician industries are subject to strict regulation and strict control of compliance, both from the environmental and industrial safety point of view. In the case of Ence its eighth clause, of its concessional title, establishes a series of environmental requirements which, over time, have been largely surpassed by later environmental legislation, which makes this company more responsive to environmental and safety requirements. They know perfectly well that companies like Ence are required to have an integrated environmental authorisation, and one of the essential aspects of these authorisations is that they set maximum values or limit values for both atmospheric emissions and liquid discharges. And these limit values are set in accordance with the parameters established in accordance with European legislation. And from these rigorous controls to ensure environmental compliance and security, the Government of Galicia has granted the Cence its integrated environmental authorisation, an authorization that legitimizes as an industry that has no danger of environmental pollution and ensures its strict control. And, as you know, it is important to need that integrated environmental authorization granted by the two-party government in 2008. So you've already confirmed during your government that Ence was neither a dangerous company nor a contaminant. In 2018 this integrated environmental authorisation was reviewed and even stricter emission parameters were imposed. In addition, all these authorizations for the environmental compliance of this industry were expressly ratified by all judicial bodies in the various resources that were brought before both the Pontevedra Council and the APDR Council, and all, as I say, rejected by the courts. For example, I put the Judgment of the Supreme Court of June 2016; the Judgment of the National Court of December 2018 and January 2020; or the Judgment of the High Court of Justice of Galicia of June 2020, so that the appeal brought by the Pontevedra Council, the revision of the integrated environmental authorisation of 2018, where no reason was given to the Pontevedra Council when it claimed that it could not grant the said authorisation. So, Mr Bará, that's already in a judgment. Therefore, Lourizán's factory is subject to regular reporting on compliance with these parameters and to a strict system of periodic inspections and verifications based on objective criteria and conducted by impartial and independent officials. And since the legal implementation of this Ence system, it has been the subject of four comprehensive inspections carried out in 2015, 2016, 2018 and 2020. Inspections that have equipped the complete verification of all the conditions set out in the integrated environmental authorisation, and always resulting in full compliance. And to all this comprehensive environmental control is the work done by the Industry Council, which has been carrying out safety monitoring work in the industrial field. And the latest certificates submitted by the company, both related to the plant and boiler, were favourable and are issued by control bodies accredited by the ENAC. Even so, in the last inspection conducted by the Pontevedra Territorial Staff in December 2020, it is observed that the installations comply with state and autonomous regulations. Therefore, since Junta is being strictly demanding to meet all environmental and security parameters, we would have no problem in supporting your original proposal, Mr Bará. As far as Mr Colmenares' statements are concerned, they also know that Judge No. 2 of Pontevedra has just dismissed the complaint against the president of Ence for the statements we are talking about. But you don't care about this, because you've already sentenced this gentleman with the title of a non-gracious person. But, well, now it turns out that in his last-minute self-amendment they seem to want to negotiate with him. That is, they give the title of a person not grateful to the president of Ence and, on the other hand, they want to sit with him to negotiate. This must be a new unknown negotiation technique, Mr Bará. [[Applause]] The truth is, no one understands. What is clear is that Ence complies with the Law of Back and counts with a concession in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial and with an extraordinary extension according to the legality. A legal extension. And Junta will always defend the extension of Ence because it is a defense of all the activities and industries on our coast, which are entitled to an extraordinary extension. And what they really care about is the closure of the factory, without more, and for this which they used to claim pollution and security, and now, as this is guaranteed, the only argument is that they don't like the location, and without taking into account all the damage that this would bring to all the direct and indirect workers of this industry. Mr Bará, we don't like the location of this factory either, we don't like the location of Ence, we don't like anything at all, but in the current context of economic crisis, what is less interesting at this time is to close the factory and leave more than 5,000 families in Galicia without support. But, well, as to both the BNG and the Socialist Party, this doesn't concern them, they agreed in their government pact that the closure of the factory of Ence and with those priors the Socialist Party arrives at the Government and starts its way to put down the industries on the coast, starting by waving itself at the price of the grant of Ence with a legal report that returns to the argument of the Law of Heritage already rejected by the Constitutional Court. But the Socialist Party knows that it's not enough an interpretative report and that it needs a rule; the norm would be a new Back Law but they had to stop it illegally and now it's article 18 of the Climate Change Act. And why does the Ministry need this article 18 in the Climate Change Act? Because the Socialist Party knows that the 2013 Back Law clearly regulates that the extension and concession may last up to 75 years without taking into account the previous concession. And so he needs a rule that reinterprets the 2013 Law retroactively in an opposite sense. What the Socialist Party is doing with this rule is shortening the duration of all concessions, of all industries on our coast, without distinction at all. And this rule is going to have a very negative impact on the entire Greek coast, where environmental-friendly activities are carried out and that constitute the way of life of thousands of Galician families; it can involve the loss of more than 37,000 jobs and more than 2,000 million euros. It is the example that the objective of this article 18 is to close companies we have through the workers of Ence, who, interviewed in Madrid with EH Bildu, the members of the Government of the Socialist Party and the BNG, with the aim of not supporting this article 18, this political training told him that they would support it because they were interested in closing the refinery of Petronor in Biscaia. It is therefore a clear example that the Government of the Socialist Party wants to use this rule to shut down companies in the mar-industry chain. And according to the recent report drawn up by the Autonomous Juridical Counsellor, it concludes that article 18.4 of the Climate Change Act is directly unconstitutional. And, moreover, it also determines that Article 18.3 is contrary to legal certainty, and so do the legal services of companies that are affected by this rule; it says it generates legal insecurity in all companies in the marine industry chain. So what we have to do is delete that article, because it makes no sense to play with thousands of jobs for not changing the writing of the article. And what's clear is that, if you turn it off, there's no other kind of placement in Galicia that allows you to transfer the Lourizán factory. Three locations have recently been proposed for their transfer and clearly have already been rejected and discarded by some mayor and by the company itself because it is not technically feasible, because it does not meet the parameters necessary for its viability, and also from the economic point of view, because it was an investment about 700 million euros. So, Mr Bará, all they want is for Ence to close without any other solution the company has to leave Galicia, without worrying at all the 400 direct jobs of neighbors of Pontevedra, of Marín, of Poio, of Sanxenxo, of Bueu, of the entire region, of about 2,100 jobs in the forest area and another 2,700 jobs in the industrial sector and other activities. And also influence the tremendous negative impact that it would have on workers and companies located in the port of Marín, which they don't care about either, Mr Bará. So it is clear that the Socialist Party and the BNG want to close the company of Ence without offering any alternative to those 5,000 families that depend on it; and both the PSdEG and the BNG say they support the Galician industry, when what they're doing is closing companies in Galicia. And you don't even have the slightest sensitivity with all these workers who will be affected. And as I told you earlier, Mr Bará, we would support the original proposal of the GNP, but the self-restraints for not being realistic and ambiguous and indefinite, and it could be even more superior legal insecurity. So it's unacceptable for us. It seems that the amendment is a last-minute joke, which what you haven't done now presents this legal aberration because you've realized they've kicked, because, by wanting to eliminate Ence, you can charge the entire coastal economy of Galicia. So we're going to ask for a point vote, even though you, Mr Bará, as you always seek confrontations, we know they won't accept it, but well... And you keep insisting, Mr Bará, with the condemnation of the acts carried out in Pontevedra Town Hall. We made it very clear yesterday to my colleague Diego Calvo that we condemn all kinds of violence, that's more, we sent him a communiqué to condemn all kinds of violence, including that of Mayor Lores, and we're still waiting for you to answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, apply the story and don't come here to teach any lessons in democracy. [[Applause]] I'm finished saying that since the Galician Union it's from the People's Party, we'll always fight for the rights of workers and families. And if Ence closes without any alternative, the Socialist Party and the BNG will be responsible for the future of these 5,000 workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u80	Thank you, Mr. Santos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u81	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you're a fraud because... No, I've read it to you before, Mr. Hernández, who now put it there at the CES: "If Ence doesn't move, it will be a fraud," and you now say that we want to close Ence, you've been saying that you had to go out of the factory for five years, what happens then didn't interest the jobs? [[Interruptions.]] I'm a pure contradiction. They have no escape. [[Murmurs.]] They've been saying five years what we're saying now and we've always been saying. We maintain the position, we are consistent, those who betrayed Pontevedra, the interests of the river were you. And he says there's no environmental hazard in Ence. If it was just the environmental danger, because the greatest danger in Ence is not the environmental hazard, the greatest danger of Ence is the democratic contamination of the rotating doors, that's the worst danger of Ence, trying to force decisions. [[Applause]] And look, Mrs. Castro, dialogue is also a very nice word, like that of consensus, but we don't talk about dialogue, we talk about negotiation in our proposal. And what we bring here as an amendment is exactly the agreement adopted by the Full Council of Pontevedra last Monday. I know you don't have much to do with your fellow municipal group, but it was the Town Hall agreement. We bring him here because it was a Monday deal, recently, so recently done, very fresh, so we make the self-amendment. And the agreement of the Pontevedra council doesn't talk about the Pontevedra Council precisely, it talks about what we literally put here: that the Unions, the state and the company, get to work to recover Pontevedra's laugh, for that. And, look, speaking of dialogue, I'm going to tell you something that maybe you don't know, Mayor Lores spoke to Ence on his day, in the first term, with the president of Ence, and it was a very clarifying meeting, because Mr. Ence said something very well that explained everything that happened after, said it was easier to change public opinion than to change the factory of site. And Ence has been trying to change Pontevedra's public opinion for 20 years and they haven't achieved it, they've been trying to overthrow Pontevedra Ence's municipal government for 20 years, but the PP with all kinds of troops and they haven't achieved it, because there's a government with dignity, with ethics, and there's no paste that can beat it, and it's going to keep in those positions. [[Applause]] And, of course, you bring us some accounts here, too, which are the accounts of the great captain, because they say, there's a study that says Ence can't move. Curiously, this study has been done by a consultant, IDOM, who is the header consultant at Ence, who does all environmental and other studies. I mean, it's very neutral. And it says that moving the factory meant an investment of 700 million euros, 700 million euros, including 45 to dismantle the facilities. And, of course, you just told the company that if you keep the extension; by the way, Mr. Santos, that extension is not firm, that extension is pending from a court ruling that questions its legality, and the State's lawyer has put himself on the side of the appellants, who are the Council of Pontevedra, Greenpeace and the Defence of Ría, has accepted its arguments: that it is an irregular extension for several reasons, by granting it a Government in function, by exceeding the 75-year term and because it is in public domain lands where companies should not be involved with the sea, for these reasons. So he's hanging on to it. Well, Mr. President of Ence said they would invest 400 million in the plant in Pontevedra if they were guaranteed the concession and at the same time committed themselves to investing 200 million more in that pact with which you tried to buy the popular will to overthrow the municipal government of Pontevedra and failed to do so. Well, it's 600 million, that is, you announce, the Ence and the People's Party, the investment of 600 million euros in the factory already exists and they refuse to study, analyze, convene a table to work on a transfer from the factory. And I remind you that who should lead this work and that project is the board of Galicia, because it's who has the competences in land management, the land management guidelines, which have violated to grant that businessable extension to Ence. They have competences in industry, Mr. Conde; they have competences in the environment; they have all the competences to lead this process. It's a great opportunity, they have to do it talking to all sides and looking for a solution, because it's not the first time a factory is moved and it'll be a great opportunity to have more and better jobs in the Pontevedra River, in the mountains; multifunctional mountains, not up to the service of an Ence company. That's the project we brought here. More quality in the Pontevedra River, more work in the river, in the transformation of the forest industry, in a factory that closes cycles and in the recovery of the mountains to put them to the service of this country, not to the service of companies, of the turning doors of corruption in B and of the dark offices of Ibex. That's the BNG project. [[Applause]] You have to choose, it's time to choose between defending the interests of people from the river, more and better work and recovering from that field and from the Greek mountain or getting to the services of Ence, Ibex and big business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u82	Do you accept the amendment? Do you accept the amendment of the Socialist Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u83	That's the choice of the People's Party, and that's what they call it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u84	Do you accept the amendment? No, no, no, no. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u85	After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been closed, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and three Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to facilitate the collection and acceptance of the previous instruction document, as well as to implement the adaptations to the Organic Law on the Regulation of Euthanasia. A transaction was proposed and then all groups know that transaction. We vote. Yes, Miss Vispo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u86	Mr President, we wanted to ask for a vote on points of the compromise text. The three points first and fourth separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u87	I mean, the first three points and the fourth one separately. I mean, voting all the points minus what's left in the middle, then. I mean, voting the first three points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u88	The separate room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u89	So we started voting. Do you accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u90	It's just that rights are not negotiated by points, we can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u91	We then vote on the transaction as formulated. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u92	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, initiative of Leticia Gallego The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted and there is a deal with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that knows all groups. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and three other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan to rescue and speed up the processing of aid to the hospitality sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. That proposal is therefore rejected, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u93	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the Navantia shipyards in the Ferrol River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u94	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mercedes Complaints initiative. There's a transaction, which is known to all the groups, we voted on that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other Members, on the demand of the Government of Greece for a strategic plan to recover and boost the commercial activity of the port of Coruña, the central government's bid for the railway connection to the external port of Langosteira, as well as the management of the forgiveness of the debt or similar solution. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u95	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da Guadalupe Murillo. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Yes, Mrs. Murillo? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u96	Yes, president, we finally got into a deal with the Socialist Party and it stays, can I read the transaction? Because we haven't written it. We accept the last point of your proposal, but modified, so I read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u97	Lea, lea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u98	Our initiative remains exactly: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to address the Government of the State to promote the appropriate changes in state legislation with the aim of reducing the tax rate on added value from 21% to 10% in all sports services and physical activities provided to natural persons who are not already exempt from existing legislation." And point 2 would be: "To include the sports sector in the included plans and actions and those of direct aid enabled to alleviate the economic consequences of paralysing or decreasing activity." And that would be our transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u99	We vote for that transaction. Vote of the compromised text of the Proposal for a Non-Legal Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Guadalupe Murillo Solís and five other Members, on the action of the Galician Council to address the Government of Spain to promote the appropriate changes in the state legislation with the aim of reducing the tax rate on value added from 21% to 10% in all sports and physical services services provided to individuals who are not already exempt from existing legislation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u100	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará's initiative. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Yes, ask for the word Mr. Costa, for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u101	As I said earlier, we would ask for a point vote, on the one hand the first two points of the original proposal and the two seconds of addition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u102	Don't you accept? It's a shame, let's break the... well, let's go, let's go, let's vote, we vote, we don't accept, we don't accept. [[Laughter]] Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the risks it presents to the health of people and the environment the state of the Ence facilities in Lourizán. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19 votes against, 40 abstentions 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u103	The votes have been finished here, and we continue with the fifth item on the agenda, which is that of interpellation. In this case of Mr. Pablo Arangüena, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the opinion of the Committee of Galicia on the causes followed in the National Audience. Interpellation by D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Junta of Galicia in relation to cases followed in the National Audience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u104	Go ahead, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u105	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between dictatorships, based on force, or the Old Regime, based on hereditary privilege, democracy is based on public ethics, which, in theory, should contribute to building not only an ethical public sphere, but also a more ethical society as a whole. That's why it's essential that governments and people who practice politics behave in an exemplary way, especially in a time marked by a strong health and economic crisis, which causes suffering in citizenship, strains social structures and questions institutions that ultimately support the state and democracy itself. And if public ethics was indispensable before the pandemic, in the post-pandamy world it will be even more so. And on that line, this interpellation has for some reason certain facts and research that, as I say very gently, question not only the ethics of the state PP, but specifically the Galician PP. As Mr. Feijóo himself acknowledged when he said, there was a time when Bárcenas dishonestly wanted to stain Galician PP; a more than curious statement, because we did not know that Marseilles had special animation by Galician PP, but it seems to be, according to Mr. Feijóo, that yes. Mr. Feijó also expressed his surprise that he was asked about corruption, but the surprising thing would be that he was not talking about corruption of the PP when it affects the core of our democratic system, and that is why it is surprising that Mr. Feijóo is surprised. And finally he wanted to limit the whole matter, the affairs, the multiple affairs, the bottomless pit of the cases associated with corruption of the PP, to the defense strategy of Mr. Bárcenas. Disaster strategy seems to be when in the first part of the Gürtel case he was sentenced to 33 years in jail and has all traces to continue accumulating convictions. Ladies and gentlemen, in the trial of the case of Bárcenas, which was held two weeks ago at the National Audience, both the former PP manager Cristobal Paez and the Bárcenas themselves confirmed that the last operation of the People's Party's B box was a cash payment of 50,000 euros, made in 2010 and that it was from the PP of Pontevedra; and that, according to the Bárcenas itself, it was distributed into two envelopes that would have been delivered to Rajoy and Cospedal. Please note that Mr. Bárcenas and Mr. Páez have different lawyers, different process strategies and they are also ill-recognised, but they provide different and perfectly complementary details about this same fact. A payment of €50,000 to PP's box B, coming from the PP of Pontevedra in 2010, when Mr. Feijóo had been at most four years in charge of Galicia's PP. And if this is part of the defense strategy, as Mr. Feijóo said, of Mr. Paez and Mr. Bárcenas, I ask you why do these two gentlemen speak of a payment in 2010 from Pontevedra and not of a payment from Albacete, Cáceres, Palencia or any of the other provinces of Spain? Which have any fixation with Pontevedra, in which you benefit from that supposed strategy, that fixation with Pontevedra, as you say? And then it turns out that, among the documents provided at the national hearing in the case of the Bárcenas, there is a detailed business income ratio amounting to two million euros, which were, allegedly, the accounting number B of the Galician PP when Mr. Feijóo was already the party president and Mr. Rueda, general secretary, who are, if I am not wrong, since January 2006. Yes, Mr. Feijó, he told us a while ago that these companies hired more with the bipartite than with the PP governments. It might mean that these companies paid the PP bit for having contracts with the bipartite, which would be highly surprising, Mr. Rueda, as you can explain later. [[Applause]] And, Paul Crespo himself, former secretary of organization of Galicia's PP, acknowledged in a Congress commission that Galicia's PP was involved even in the illegal funding of the PP, just as he did in various interviews where he recognized that there were also about in his stage and that illegal funding of Galicia's PP was known and institutionalized, and Mr Crespo, by the way, is a genuine expert in corruption of the PP, who was sentenced to 15 years ago, in addition to 37 those who had already been convicted as a result of the Gürtel case, first stage, a process that accumulates 67 convicted people who account for 570 years of imprisonment. And in the case of Kitchen -- most recent --, which investigates the alleged spying operation and stealing documents from Basel by state cloacas, directed by the Rajoy Government, it speaks of documents that would try to be paid in B at the premises of Galician PP, and that would have been stolen from Mr. Basel, despite the fact that the President of Galician Board has made repeated statements on this matter in order to deny it or relativize it. For example, in the press conference following the June 10th Council of September 2020, Mr Feijóo lied when he pointed out that we were talking about facts 15 or 20 years ago, when it is public and notorious that these are alleged facts committed in the years 2013 and 2014. In short, although Mr. Feijóo denies and relativizes what we know today -- and there's still a lot left to know, because, as I say, it's a bottomless bag -- is that the evidence and evidence of the Cases Bárcenas, Gürtel and Kitchen pass through Galicia and apparently end up in Galicia. And until today, Mr. Feijóo's government has given no sort of minimally convincing explanation on these subjects, apart from denying it all, insinuating that it is a conspiracy, saying that they are made very old and appealing to the presumption of innocence. But the truth is that the presumption of innocence is a legal and procedural guarantee to defend and protect individuals, not a module that serves to avoid debate over political responsibilities, which are much broader than the penalties, because a person may not be criminally liable but politically responsible for what he does, so he allows himself to be done, not to monitor who he chooses. And you belong to a party that has been declared to be a lucrative party by the judgment of the Gürtel case, i.e. that you have benefited from the Gürtel case and the judgment of the Gürtel case says of the party to which you belong that around it has mounted a real and effective system of institutional corruption and, if we combine all that I have heard about the Gürtel and the Bárcenas chaos, there are sufficient indications and evidence that point to the direction that Galicia's PP has been doubled to the elections for a long time. [[Applause]] And at least at Mr. Feijóo's first elections in 2009, because if two people declare in a trial that the last payment of the Basel case came from Galicia in 2010 -- when Mr. Feijóo had already been president of the party for four years, and he was already president of the board --, of course that indicates that Pontevedra's PP had a box B in 2010. And if you had a box B, at least we can conclude that box B was used to fund the expenditures of the PP. And among those expenses there is no doubt that there would be election campaigns, and a year earlier, in 2009, the campaign was held for which Mr. Feijóo arrived at the President of the Board. By the way, the agency that led the campaign to Mr Feijóo is involved in the Gürtel and Punica cases, which are deeply involved. And, for further inri, in 2010, who was president of the PP and the Deputy of Pontevedra? Mr. Louzán, recently convicted of corruption for two years of imprisonment and eight of disability, along with the Vice-President in Pontevedra. And by the way, Mr. Feijóo's contempt for ethics is such, that he was allowed to appoint the Vice-President in Pontevedra knowing that he would be judged for prevarication and falsehood and that he could be condemned -- as he was actually convicted -- months after being appointed. And Mr. Louzán was president of the PP of Pontevedra until 2015, in addition to president of the MP. And Mr. Louzán manages 400,000 euros of public funds every year, and you're delighted. I look forward to the explanations that, surprisingly, if given, for the first time in this House would happen. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u106	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Alfonso Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u107	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Orange, they say around, and I tell you because I hear it, and you sure don't like to hear it, but some say around there that you don't measure too much and that that's one of the problems that causes even in your group and so now you say it's absolutely true. [[Murmurs.]] You come here to, I don't say to comment on things that are said in the trials, things that are already judged, you come here to dictate and share, of course, true guilty, condemned, therefore, there is no possibility of remission and, of course, nothing that does harm the People's Party and nothing that can touch you. Let's talk about that too, because if we talk about ethics, we'll have to talk about ethics in general. But I'm not going to do as you do getting away with the presumption of innocence, manipulating things they say. By the way, let's say it again: "Condemnatively sentence is not only compatible with good faith, and of course innocent, but presupposes the latter." This gave the same sentence you alluded to in condemning the PP. Therefore, read things out well, at least, to start talking with a little rigor. Of course, it's just that you speak strictly if everything you've mounted falls down, and your vocation of Torquemada to come -- I insist -- to pick up, manipulate and defame, which is really what you've done. I won't do that, honestly. What I'm going to remind you is what the President of the Board said this morning; in fact, you were upset to tell the truth. The truth is, in the middle of the pandemic this is your priority, it's been with the president's questions and it's being right now. And, of course, my duty is to come to answer, as a member of the Government, with all the tranquility, with all the pride of my party and, of course, of the Government, to which you imply directly here, pronouncing also in which the Government implies and of course gives everything. You were told this morning to bring this collation because everyone is going to talk, and that's why you're going to bring this interpellation, on the street you won't hear anything but talk about the involvement of the Government of Galicia in the Kitchen case; indeed, that's what everyone is talking about on the street right now. It doesn't talk about the pandemic, it doesn't talk about vaccination, it doesn't talk about state aid, it doesn't talk about the crisis that has many sectors starting with tourism, which is my competition. No, no, people are talking about the involvement of Galician PP in the Kitchen case, the reason for this questioning. That's why you're all this time, and it'll also bother you to tell him and tell him that I always say the same thing, but it's true, not a single question about what's going on with the tourist sector, how it affects the pandemic, which we've been thinking, how we're going to take advantage of the Xacobeo because the help of the Union doesn't come. No, no, no, you're the only one who's worried about this is saying this to us -- I insist -- about what concerns people on the street, which is what happened to the involvement of the PPDG in the Kitchen case. Look, as the president of Galician Union told you, they've already asked us about this in 2009, for similar things, since 2009. At that time you had 25 Members and 38 of us, because we had just arrived at the Government. They ask us again for this many years later, twelve years later. The more or less questions and insinuations, of course, and the claims, charging the presumption of innocence and making judges without any evidence are the same. Now there's a difference, you have half the Members, and we have four more. I would ask them to follow this way, because people actually take note of these things, and see how they behave each one, and look at the difference in 2009 and 2021, and where we are four elections later some, that you condemn, and where there are others, you, who are the great accusers spend as long as they pass. I suppose this week where you've covered yourself with a lot of glory, with motions of censure, where you desert a vice president of Government, where in Ferraz they tell you to paint more the mayor of Ames than your leader, well, then you have to bring these things to talk, to ease everything a bit, to cheer up. I'm certainly not going to fall into that, of course I'm going to answer the questions you ask me in the interpellation, without any doubt, uh, that there's no doubt about what my answers and their arguments for doing them and what you just said here. But without touching, I'll tell you. First question, what does the Government of Galicia deserve from the alleged use of state resources and forces and security bodies to cover up the corruption of the party to which that same Government is investigated by the National Audience in the well-known case Kitchen? That's the question, if anyone hasn't seen her. What opinion does the Government of Galician Union deserve that the Government of Galician Union is involved in corruption in the Kitchen case? That's what you ask. Supposedly, he says, he didn't say it in his intervention but in the question at least when he writes, he pretends. Well, look, I'm going to answer it first, and you'll say no, it always says the same thing, which is a matter of justice. Clearly, that's where you take all the arguments, that's just twisting them and twisting them to do as you did in your intervention. We respect the judicial work, so whatever the judgment says, which has already said a number of judgments on this subject, is what we have to take care of, we like it or we don't like it. And so that's what we're going to do here too, about what's going on in the courts, which you don't do, because you take all this, bring it here and manipulate it. As for the presumption of innocence, I think this is fundamental in a rule of law, all you have to do with PP is not a presumption of innocence. Of course everything that has to do with you, we could get there! Of course I do. Look, tell me about alleged use, irregular use of state bodies and security forces. I believe that for now, that must be said, the only ones who have firm convictions for that is their party, the Socialist Party; therefore, very careful with the background cited. That's the answer to the first question. Second question, did the Government of Galicia participate directly or indirectly -- less ill than it recognizes us the possibility of indirectly participating -- in that use taking into account that the documents that are incorporated in the case refer to payments in B at the premises of the Galician, Valencian and Madrid PP? This is a good approach, here you mix statements made by a person who's doomed, you have to say, it's a defense strategy, like it's not going to be! It's just that she's doomed and she's trying to make a defense strategy, and we're saying it from the beginning, today you're worth it. I'm surprised we're going to talk about Basel today, but if all the interpellation and all of your intervention are based on you on Mr. Basel and the things you say when you think this can harm the People's Party. But what a surprise, Mr. Aranguena! Well, because they mix these statements, you don't know very well what they ask, they talk about participation by the Greek Government... is that the truth is I don't know very well what they ask me here, I hope you explain it to me later. In fact, I understand something that if we're directly and indirectly involved in something that has to do with Kitchen, I say no; not categorically, in case I don't know very well what I'm responding to because I don't know very well what I'm asking. [[Applause]] And the third question, will the Government of Galicia follow through its president relativizing the seriousness of the facts being investigated in the National Audience? And here I could, using your own demagogy, say: will the Socialist Party follow up every time they remind you that the last convicted person -- who is not even the only one but the last one -- condemned in an important factum of the Socialist Party in Galicia, Mr. Lineres, and that is condemned for accepting bribes? Will they continue to whistle up every time they remind him of that? Because that's relativizing, uh, you never say anything. No, no, we don't have anything to do with that, I wasn't in the Socialist Party until three minutes ago, I didn't know many of those who sit right now on these benches and, of course, many, I don't know whether you or not, I don't know how long it takes for the Socialist Party, but I'm sure that with many of you it has a lot to do with. All of a sudden, convicted and nobody knows him. So don't talk to me about relativizing, uh, because small relativization is doing with such a recent case. In any case, Mr. Arangüena, look, we are the first -- and in the second part we will talk about very specific cases -- in warning of the mistakes made by people who took advantage of our party. Of course, we've done it and we'll do it as often as we need it. We are the first to regret that this has happened and the first to apologize. It's all right to apologize when you have to. From then on, Mr. Aranguena, lessons from the Socialist Party, that all the terversa, all the manipulation and twelve years later, it goes on without understanding that people are much more ready than you think, no lessons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u108	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, you say I come here to pronounce judgment; nothing further than my intention. I come here not as a prosecutor obviously, but as a Member whose concern is a matter that is central to a democracy, such as public corruption, and in public corruption you are undoubtedly champions in Spain today. There's no doubt in Spain that this is the case. [[Applause]] You even insinuate that people don't care about PP corruption. So there may be people who, being concerned about any form of corruption, like any citizen in a democracy, are already saturated by the level of cholebrones, which you were talking about. The culebron was the corruption of the PP, which has so many plots, subtranches, chapters and sub-chapters, that several masters must be done to follow the trail and the history of its corruption in this country. In any case, every human organization is likely to have corrupt members, that's obvious, and in fact statistically it's normal that there are corrupt people in any sufficiently numerous organization. The problem is that the PP and the cabinet of ministers of Mr. Aznar looked like Ali Baba's cave, and the problem is when corruption becomes the norm and not the exception, and the problem is when corruption is not something alien and distant, as they intend to make us see, but something that goes through Galicia and ends up in Galicia in the case of the People's Party. Because Mr. Bárcenas has been called upon by the State for only EUR 23 million for the first phase of the Gürtel case, 23 million that takes into account in Switzerland; this is no longer presumed, this is declared by a judgment. And Mr. Luis Fraga, nephew of his founder, says that he deserves total credibility. I mean, I don't make any claim here that it's not supported by what their own partymates say. Total credibility deserves the nephew of the founder of his party. And, by the way, you have some account in Switzerland also in common with Mr. Bárcenas. And Mr. Crespo said that corruption was institutionalized in Galicia's PP. And he didn't say it to avoid jail, because he's been serving 52 years in prison, and still has pending causes. And if what Crespo and Bárcenas said is part of a defense strategy -- as you say and as Mr Feijóo says -- I have to tell you that that strategy would just go through working with justice, to tell you the truth; not by inventing unfounded stories because, lying, what they would achieve would just worsen their procedural situation. So, if what Mr. Feijóo says is a defense strategy is true, what Mr. Feijóo is saying and you are that Mr. Crespo and Barbaras are telling the truth. And I'm new in professional politics, about like Gonzalo Caballero. And, the difference of Mr. Rueda -- you yourself -- or Mr. Feijóo and so many others who have spent most of their lives in politics -- and indeed, Mr. Rueda, you were already president of New PP Generations in 1993, at the age of 25, a precociousness that I have to tell you is remarkable and I congratulate you. Considering that in that year Mr. Feijóo had not even met Martial Dorado, of whom he would be friends years later, when Mr. Dorado was already -- according to later judgments -- the largest money-launderingr in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Besides years before he entered into friendship with Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Dorado had already been arrested by the Civil Guard and investigated by drug trafficking and money laundering, specifically in the late 1980s and early 1990s. So Mr. Feijóo was not yet Vice-President of the Galician PP, for which he arrived in 2004 to become President of the party shortly afterwards, at the same time as you became Secretary General in January -- as I told him -- of the year 2006. They weren't there, you're not passing people, you've been there since the zero minute. And the Bárcenas and Gürtel cases involved and involve the PP implantation of a state looting system. The Kitchen case is supposed to be the scandalous attempt to cover up that corrupt system using the state's own cloacas. These cases are linked by different ways to Galicia's PP and what we know about the illegal funding of the PP ends right in Galicia. But until today neither the Galician PP, nor Mr. Feijóo himself, nor did you give the slightest explanation, apart from denying everything and even though Mr. Feijóo has high responsibilities in the Union and the Galician PP since 2003. I mean, he wasn't even much less someone who was passing by. I encourage you to say something minimally credible and coherent about everything you're learning. Because I anticipate that there will presumably be more and more, and we will still have to talk about corruption here because it is our democratic obligation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u110	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. First Vice-President and President's Adviser, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Arunguena, see what I was telling you? That you don't measure, honestly, don't measure what you say! And then he says, "No, I don't come here as a prosecutor. First of all, no, there will be new deliveries, be careful! Afraid! [[Laughter]] Yes. I'll come here, I'll twist and say, well, at last, nothing, here we wait, Mr. Aranguena, here we wait. [[Murmurs.]] And as long as he goes back in time. One of the charges of prosecutor Aranguena is that I was the 25-year-old president of New Generations. I confess guilty, I won a congress, I think you have more difficulty in winning congresses than I do. I won that convention. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In the meantime, it took me time to make an opposition, finally, I won't tell you my life. If you want, we'll debate. No, you just come here and tell me my own life. If you want to, at last, you're a prosecutor, I'm defending myself, but I have nothing to do, as the presumption of innocence does not exist when Mr. Aranguena speaks, he would be guilty of everything. But, well, take a look, really. You put Mr. Dorado here. Do you realize that when at the end there are no arguments that always resort to it? I was already surprised he didn't show up. I'm surprised it didn't appear in the first intervention and it appeared in the second intervention, which means they have no arguments, they don't know what to say and put on the usual; but they take so long and so long every time there's elections. And indeed, people of course do care that there is no corruption, so we take so many measures at the time you voted against. Of course we know that's very important! But there are also other things that for you are not at all... I tell you, I come here to answer whatever you say to me, very proud of my party and what we have done. I'm also responding to this, even though I don't understand the questions very well; I told you before, you didn't even clear up what you were asking me, maybe you didn't understand it either. The second question is impossible to understand, Mr. Aranguena. I thought I'd make something clear, but no, you don't have to. I come here to answer, you ask what you want, but it would also be nice if you asked things that people have right now as their main concerns and that doesn't matter. Ask me about this? Well, I'll answer this, and I'll answer you seriously, as I told you in my first intervention. And to be serious too, and to answer seriously, there must also be some serious questions. May you tell me that Mr. Feijóo is a chulo because he appointed Mrs. Piñeiro delegated knowing that he was accused: "Peter Sánchez has appointed Luis Plana as Minister of Culture as Minister of Culture knowing he was charged." That, what's going on, that one's chubby and the other's not, or there's different degrees of barbecue. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Do you realize? Yeah, well, you have to do everything like that, and when you don't know very well that... [[Murmurs.]] He also says that people who practice politics must behave in an exemplary way, so his intervention began. Hey, won't you say that for a lot of cases they have right now? You want me to start naming them? Why do you keep the Elder's attic right now, for example? I've already lost the account, the whole goguemecum of the Criminal Code has been charged with a lot of charges, with prosecution proceedings, but it's still standing there, and you shut up, as if it were a Mr. Lineres II. No, no, it has nothing to do with us. That's right, the people who are in politics have to have, observe an impeccable ethics and not have a speck of suspicion, except for the Socialist Party. Are they from the People's Party? Go get them. Are they from the Socialist Party? Ah! well, you will see, presumption of innocence; for this side it exists. You don't act as a prosecutor there, you don't say anything, you shut up. He didn't say anything -- I knew he wouldn't say anything -- he doesn't have to say it, or yes, I don't know. But with this damned man who knew all of you, for whom did Mr. Lineres raise? You don't know. [[Murmurs.]] No, not for you, well, I'm glad to know, it's okay to clarify. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You know that in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for Mr. Aranguena, Mr. Lines wasn't coming up, okay? [[Laughter]] All right, we've got one elimination. But in everything else because I don't know why they never talk about it, they make it as if they didn't know it, a recent sentence. I'm not going to say, I'm not going to talk here about anything that's not already decided, but of what's judged yes, especially of who gives us lessons. So, if you like, we're talking about Mr. Lines, the mayor of Cerceda, the mayor of Camarinas, the mayor of Vimianzo, the mayor of Nogals, the concierge of Pontedeme... of so many people who have already been judged by justice, but as the Socialist Party was, we'll never find a single comment. Make prosecutors always for one side, warn and threaten always for one side, give things up for assumptions and twist everything forever for one side. As I told you, Mr. Aranguena, lessons none, absolutely none. Very proud of my party, very proud that during four elections people had trusted us to see what we do and what they do, and very proud that we go up and you clearly go down. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u112	Thank you, Vice President. [[Applause]] Da Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the prices of the housing rental in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u113	Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u114	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. And the other Members and Members of this House. Well, as we know, the price of rent housing is evident that it has risen unabatedly in recent years. After the 2007 crisis, a new speculative cycle began that has its epicenter, the difference of the previous cycle, in housing in renting regimen. From 2008 to 2019, the average monthly expenditure of the homes in the main housing rent increased by 18%. And the main increase is recorded in urban areas, which, on the other hand, is where the bulk of these types of contracts are concentrated. So to understand the magnitude of this increase in prices, you have to go to see the data that is provided in cities. According to data from the Galician Housing Observatory, from its council -- which I am taking advantage of, by the way, to tell you that it is a shame the situation in which the Galician Housing Observatory has not produced a report for two years --, according to the data we have for the period 2014, which is the first data from the historical series up to 2020, i.e., that we are not seeing the full picture of the price increase cycle, but only for the last six years, but we can already see an increase in the rental price of 31% in the Coruña, 20% in Santiago, 19% in Ferrol, 25% in Lugo, 20% in Ourense, 23% in Pontevedra and 24% in Vigo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we're talking about that in cities like La Coruña or Vigo the rise in prices has reached 100 euros a month; that is, it has increased by 3,000 euros a year in just 6 years. And all this despite the wage devaluation and the increase in the precariousness that has been imposed on us since the previous crisis. And, therefore, this is evidence that no one can deny, that there is a bubble of rent prices. And I hope, Counselor, that we can agree at least on this, which is a real problem, which is an urgent problem and which is a problem that needs solutions. And I trust that you are not a negationist of the dramatic consequences that have the abusive increase in rental prices, because your systematic silence on this subject gives you some thought. So, I think it would be very positive for you in your intervention, as the ultimate housing manager, to demonstrate your commitment to confront this problem and recognize the need to promote new measures, especially in view of the fact that the current ones did not work and the data demonstrates it. The previous Housing Plan, which corresponds to the period 2015-2020, was unable to curb the permanent price escalation. And, well, what are the causes of this blob of rent prices since 2008? The underlying problem is evident that the social function of housing is increasingly drawn up in favour of those interests that impose an understanding of housing and the real estate park exclusively as a field in which to invest surplus capital and which is organised to feed systematic bubbles and which seek the maximum benefit with them. And this is the bottom line of the question, but in the foreground we have some specific features of this postcrisis cycle since 2008, it has some own characteristics. Until that date, the housing bubble was encouraged mainly around the housing system, but from the last crisis and the management that was made there was a loss of purchasing power in the homes and a greater debt inability that made the population sectors that previously entered the housing through the purchase regime now no longer an option for those homes to access that route. And from there, we already know what happened, that the real estate sector has redirected itself to the rental market so it has reorganized itself to look for the extraction of the highest yield under this formula. What are the consequences of all this? Well, since the housing accessibility thresholds were changed, it was redefined for which part of the population it was possible to access the housing and which part would have problems. And, as we know, the lowest incomes -- that's all the data certify it -- or those collectives where there's the greatest job precariousness are sectors of the population that access the housing to a greater extent through the rent scheme. So the increase in rent prices is giving rise mainly to the poorest people, the most precarious people, to the most vulnerable people in society. That's why it's key to making the rent a viable option to access home and help redefine those thresholds. However, the data is indicating everything else, that we walk in the other direction, that the problem continues to worsen. Between February 2020 and February this year, Galicia increased by 5% the rent price of the main housing, the difference from the rest of the state, in which it fell. In the middle of the pandemic year, prices continue to rise. And today the number of homes that have to spend more than 30% of their income to pay the rent of the main housing is 26% higher than in 2007. And this obviously has a direct relationship with work insecurity, it has significantly increased the number of homes with low employment intensity per household, but it also keeps a relationship with the increase in rental prices. In total, we're talking about that in Galicia there are 30,000 households that spend more than 30% of their rents on rent, and of these 30,000 there are 10,000 that devote more than 50% of their rents on rent. Figures that are easily corroborated when we look at the register of housing claimants, where there are 15,000 registered persons waiting for a housing, a record that is in a situation of collapse year after year and to which you don't give answers. And these data contain thousands of lives behind them that are in a limited situation. A limited situation as a result of having to face the payment of the housing. It limits well because they can't cope with the payment of the housing, and there are the data of the unpaid evictions, which reach 1,800 defeats in 2019, or also limit because the payment of the housing requires such a big effort that they cannot cope with the rest of the common payments. [[Applause]] And what to say about what it means for young people, and I'm not talking about a generation of young people anymore, but I'm talking about several generations of young people who have had to go through two economic crises, a pandemic, which have their lives on standby and have no kind of capacity to emancipate themselves, and which at current market prices have no expectations for that. It is a limited situation as a result of 12 years of null policies on the housing of the People's Party and to allow the abusive increase in rental prices. And the volume of homes in this situation is so big, it's so big that in order to cope with it, public administrations must give a broad answer that combines different solutions. We know that there is no single solution, a magic vein that solves this problem. But what is beyond doubt is that the housing price variable directly affects the number, the volume of homes found in this limited situation, so intervening market prices is an effective tool to put a stop to this situation. And you might ask yourself, but why this mechanism and not others? why is this mechanism essential in the current context? Well, because, indeed, there are other also fundamental mechanisms that need to be activated, but in this context they are insufficient by themselves. And explain. Basically, the way to ensure access to housing, as I say, a large volume of homes that are in a limited position, cannot be done only with the other two main mechanisms, which are essentially the largest public housing park and with direct assistance. It can't be right now because public housing, we have very low public housing ratios in Galicia, not even 1%. There are only 3,700 public homes right now. I mean, either the council has on the immediate horizon to create 15,000 new dwellings that respond to 15,000 people who are registered in the register of housing applicants or it's not a viable option. We must walk in that direction, but it seems clear that in the immediate context it is not the only solution. As for the aid, you have completely dismantled all aid policy. At this moment there is only one social rent bonus, which reaches 700 homes all over the country. They even dismantled State Housing Plan aid that did not convene by 2020. I mean, in the year that people go through a crisis where everyone is in a precarious situation, you've been 15 months without opening the call for rent aid, it's terrible. And there's no capacity to cope with the aid, no matter how high it is, to address the problem at home through the aid, among other things because activating only this mechanism could also result in an increase in the general prices of the free market. So there is a need for a combined action of all these factors, but in which, as I say, to act on the price of living in the free market is fundamental. And what answers does the Galician Union have in the new State Housing Plan in this sense? For neither does it foresee a substantial increase in public housing, nor does it plan to create new aid, it beats you that the aid is limited to 700 homes and you seem to leave all these people who are in this complicated situation without any answers; they will continue to allow the percentage of income allocated to the payment of the rent to continue to increase the volume of people who reach that situation, as I say, limit. That's why I ask you very basic, very basic questions, which I think you should clarify to Greek citizenship. Do you think the price bubble is a problem that needs to be addressed, yes or no? Because we don't know what valuation does the counseling about this, because they never mention the subject. Let's hope that you here stand clearly, roundly, that this is a problem that needs to be addressed and that solutions should be sought. We can discuss what would be the most appropriate measures to promote the drop in rental prices, but first of all we have to try to find an agreement on which this must be a fundamental objective, a strategic objective to put on the table. And there's no alternative plan to respond to those 15,000 homes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u116	...that they wait for housing in the immediate future that does not go by lowering rent prices. So I urge you, which I hope you will answer here if you will assume this fundamental goal as a strategic goal in the new Housing Plan. It's not right now, but we'd like this debate to be opened and we've assumed this challenge, because there's the life of a lot of people at stake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u118	Very good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Fernández, the truth is I don't know very well where to start. First of all, what I would say is to apologize to the members of the Vivenda Observatory, because the observatory is not an entity where they are not professional and there are a large number of people who represent the whole society, who believe me that they spend many hours that the last result, for example, is the social pact for housing, to which you have not dedicated 5 minutes, because, if I dedicated 5 minutes, I wouldn't say everything you said here within your intervention. So the first, respect, and the second, read the social pact for housing, and the third, if they want to work, bring initiatives because I came here five months ago and held them hand to do so, and today the BNG has not brought the first one. So... what we've met again is with the same mantra, and come out, and say that there's a series of star measures that BNG proposes to solve the problem of rent and therefore housing. [[Applause]] And there is no need to hide that there are indeed problems with renting and housing, but there would be a lot more -- believe me -- if we put the actions or options you put on the table. Which are basically two: first, to intervene directly on the rental market and, on the other hand -- which today didn't say so, but generally if you're in the report --, to increase the tax pressure to large housing holders, which is something that you keep... yes? Oh, because I didn't hear him. Well, it's another one of your mantras all the time. For they are two proposals far away from the reality of Galicia, far away from society, far away from the cities and also from the smaller towns. So I'd invite you to come round and talk to all the members of the house about what it's like. You are in favour of intervening in the rental market despite the fact that there are many voices, but not only voices, but also studies, and there is the Banco de España, who are alerting to the low or no effectiveness of these measures in other European countries that have put them in place. You also forget that there are other measures that facilitate access to rent and which also have the board on top of the table, without having to introduce into the market problems that cause people legal insecurity. Why did you ever think about the problem of the last few years or the last months? That legal insecurity that is giving the central government where they don't even agree on that new housing law and the PSOE goes on one side and we can go together yesterday even what it did was to run a text, by the way, to the media, we haven't achieved anything at all to the autonomous communities where we can see it today. United Nations We can leave the limitation of rent in the hands of communities and We can -- so tell the media, because, as I say to you, they don't dialogue with any of the communities -- on many occasions it has been shown to support the use of the future law to give legal coverage to the Catalan norm traveled to the Constitutional, the document distributed yesterday by members of the ministry headed by Pablo Iglesias makes proposals that do not clarify how the indices would be developed with the autonomous communities and leave them the hot potato also to the municipalities. Well, these are the people you support in the central government, and on the one hand, there's the PSOE, and on the other hand, yesterday we were actually going out together. But there are options and there they are on the table. The central government itself and, in this case, the PSOE does not want to intervene in the rental price. And he listened to certain autonomous communities, including Galicia. He's been arguing for months about what they want to do with his partners, and in the end, it's better to be in power than to solve the problem that autonomous communities might have. By the way, much greater in any other than in the case of Galicia. And what you just made public last week, the Ministry of Abalos is on the line of granting up to 90% of rents in tense areas, if the owner lowers the price by 10%, thus recognizing that the punitive and intervention measures on the rental market are not giving the expected result. Something that manifests experiences from other countries, such as France or Germany, where limiting the rent was not successful, but quite the opposite: the number of apartments in rent has been reduced, the average income has increased and a kind of black market has been promoted, which, of course, in Galicia we will not allow, Mrs. Fernández. If much of the Central Government recognises the positions of the autonomous communities, on the other hand, we have that United We can write, and therefore you, who support each other when they are interested in each other, will tell us what line they want to follow. The line that wants to follow the Galician Union is the indispensable legal security for these empty dwellings to go out into the market, because it's beneficial for both what the house has and what it wants to rent. And what has the central government been doing? For a continuous indefinition that the only thing that is generating is that great insecurity for the owners of the dwellings, but also for what they want to rent. And what citizens need is for sure and there we are working. We are working on that pact for the housing that is already signed, which was signed on January 20th, where all the members participated. From promoters and builders through consumer associations. Of course, it's administration and it's from federations to professional schools. From there I told you that respect is what we want. As far as you're concerned, you continue to sink and sink when you talk about okupas, and today you look at the media, you see as neighbours of the Flower Quarter yesterday you had to intervene because the government delegate does not intervene, for example. And in the end, because those occupations do it is that people resist and those who are small owners, who generally went to emigration or invested and who have one or two additional houses, what they do is they don't go out of that housing, but they don't go out into the market and at the same time they're also insecure, and in the end those houses end up covering up. So I think it would also be a good pact for housing not only social but with different political groups. But since you didn't make any contribution, all we know about the strategy you're trying to do is do an interpellation or just ask a question. And speaking of great forebears, my question is, do you really know the reality of Galicia, but do you really know how many great forebears there are in Galicia? And do you really know what the concept of a great foreman is? Because there is legally no rule on it and the only time it appears to be defined is in Royal Decree Law 11/2020, of March 31, and of April 1, in which it is said that a great foreman is the one who has ten dwellings, including surfaces that can be built over 1,500 square meters. But on the other hand, we can say it's a lot of ten dwellings, so a great tenant is the one who has five dwellings in which we also include those plots that can be built. I don't know, just like that bench up there are big forks and everything, because this idea that Galicia is full of big forks is that it's amazing. So you know that 88% of the housing owners in Galicia have one or more dwellings, they don't get to the five dwellings, and of course computing those plots that can even have in a rural nucleus, imagine, as there's the rest of the big forebears. The data on the leases, presented by the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, which are also public, like all the data from the Vivenda Observatory that, believe me, work hard, are clear in this regard, 88% of the presented in 2020 are housing owned by physical persons, not by large holders. In front of all of this is the policy of the Galician Union, in front of these central government vessels, with a new housing law, where they don't even agree, where some filter documents and others opt for a very different line, and we choose to encourage the bet on renting of real estates, by increasing the number of homes, the housing park, both of autonomous ownership and of municipal ownership, and by helping citizens access to a home, whether in lease regime, or in property regime. That's why we signed the Social Pact for Housing, which is the fruit of a very important first step, which took place with the RehaVita Plan from 2015 to 2020 and now because some rules, a road map...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u120	...that, of course, they can participate because it is open and will be the social pact for housing 2021-2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u121	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u122	Look, Counselor, you said so many barbarities that it's difficult in five minutes to have to answer everyone. But in the end, his strategy is quite intelligent and is to do like a sort of barbarity fireworks, one after the other, and I shoot at the other side, I shoot at the other side, but he didn't answer the question that's on the table. Do you think it's a strategic goal to slow down the price escalation, yes or no? Because we still don't know what his opinion is, he didn't make it clear; that's right, he shot everywhere. In a few questions, I'll come in and answer you. For example, with regard to the Galician Housing Observatory, you're reading about how it was created, what are the objectives, and you've been finding that they haven't produced a report for two years, which is paralyzed, that they're failing to meet the objectives of the Observatory itself. As far as contributions are concerned, it would also be good if you knew that we had just discussed an initiative in this Parliament's 2nd Commission, in which we proposed that a dialogue with the rest of the forces should be opened to discuss the social pact for housing, which the People's Group voted for? On the contrary. So, of course, you should also know what is going on in this Parliament. You also say that, of course, the problem is that one can't distinguish between type of owner, we don't know he's a great tenant; for first of all you have an approved law that regulates an empty housing census where empty housing is registered, for example, financial entities, real estate subsidiaries, often censuses, would be ideal to start working by distinguishing the type of owners, and a Greek law. Finally, by entering what is the housing plan, the housing plan that you are proposing is a coat of hair, a continuity with the policy that brought about from the previous housing plan, but they include new changes that make it worse. On the one hand, he's trying to encourage the purchase again, he's not addressing the question of rental, and on the question of rental all they do is to talk in general about the need to promote public housing but not establish any kind of commitment or temporary horizon. And while in other autonomous communities they're putting at least 4-5% of public housing targets to acquire, here we don't know what the goal of the Union is, and we're asking you, do you have a public housing target in that social housing pact? What they do is they introduce changes that favor the profitability of private promoters in protected housing investment and, for that, what they do is to reduce protection times, increase the prices of protected housing; that is, instead of ensuring the social function of housing, what you do is to be concerned about the greater profitability of promoters and investors. And this is the problem, which you use public policies exclusively to promote the profitability of promoters and investors. This at the bottom of it is a sort of hidden rescue and these are some of the star measures that include that plan. First measure: they propose to give aid for an amount of EUR 8,000 to those owners of real estate that sign a lease housing contract with right the option of purchase to under 35 years of age. Just for signing that contract 8,000 euros that gives the Galician board. But it's just that, in addition, these young boys have to put 5 percent of the value of the property; let's say we're talking about a real estate of 150,000 euros, they immediately have to put about 7,500 euros. For now the owner of the great housing, already has 12,500 euros plus, and what is the counter-pretation?, price limitation? No, no consideration whatsoever, 12,500 euros just for signing the contract. But, well, if you've spent five years that boy or girl doesn't definitely buy the housing, you lose that money; that is, you're also going to that sector of the population that has a precariousness and some difficulty precisely predicting what your life is going to be like five years old because of the precarious work there, you're taking advantage of them to favor and give more benefit to those promoters. And they say specifically that you can accommodate these aids all those who are included in the empty housing census, which are credit institutions, real estate subsidiaries, management and asset entities. And they have here, so that's the perfect business, 8,000 euros for every housing in a fixed way, whether they sell it or not, and in case they don't sell it, they're still on top of that 5% that they have to give the kids nothing more to come in. The second star measure of this program they pose is the mobilization of the empty dwelling with aids. Instead of tax pressure measures, you will allocate EUR 8,000 to each housing. And, of course, you don't distinguish the type of owner, here too we're going to give 8,000 euros per housing to all those that are, for example, Sareb, financial entities, etc., etc. They give them 8,000 euros, they also pay multi-risk insurance, they also pay legal aid, which they certainly don't pay anyone who has problems with renting, if they pay this type of landlord. Of course, you always look the same way. And this kind of measure could be positive if we were to talk about small owners, actually, a worker who has an equal estate needs that help of 8,000 euros to make a rehabilitation and put it on the market. Now, it's not the same as talking about large financial entities, it's completely different. And this one in the end is the same logic as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u124	...it also proposes the Socialist Party from the central government with this measure of putting tax benefits to the owners of the property, which ultimately translates into subsidising with public resources that they keep their margins of benefit. As I say, you have turned around, hid behind the legal insecurity that would cause the price limitation. I didn't pose the price limitation, I didn't tell you to put a top at prices; I told you, if it's a goal to cut prices, because to curb prices there are many measures that can be put in place, including increasing the offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u126	...to mobilize the empty housing. And we can discuss concrete measures to achieve that strategic goal of curbing market prices. [[Applause]] The question is, are you in favour of what must be a strategic objective to curb market prices? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u128	I'm done, just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u129	Thank you very much. No, look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u130	Just answer this question. Thank you, President, I'm not going to abuse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u131	Just look at the clock, please! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Fernández, continue on the same line because you will remain in the same place. Do you think if we were to support each other and not people would still believe us? [[Applause]] It is that if you sign a social pact for housing and is in Fegamp, are the municipalities, is the Official College of Architects, the Official College of Fincas Administrators, the College of Real Estate Agents, the Galego Council of Consumers and Users, the Galego Council of Colleges of Technical Apparatus and Architects, the Galician Construction Federation, the Federation of Soil Building Promoters of Galicia. And do you think people sign this for the good if we're just thinking about one part? Stop doing demagogy, study a little bit, read, read. And then I'll tell you that's what the social pact proposes for housing. First, in fact, it includes the launch of a new rental programme, it is intended for Thursdays under 35 years of age with purchase rights, it is not EUR 8,000, it is EUR 8,000 that includes this program for owners, and in contracts it must include the option of purchase up to the fifth year while maintaining the selling price of lease contracts. Aid is also maintained with the rental payment, which will be called this month, 2.2 million euros; aids that are currently receiving 5,000 Greeks and Greeks. On the other hand, the month of April is called... but how can you tell me you're not getting it? But you can deny the obvious, you can deny that you are in Parliament right now. The following, in April, the aid for the payment of rent to persons in a situation of special vulnerability to the coward, which was also convened last year, Mrs. Fernández, and they are also called this year. Do you know how many people are receiving it? 1,091 people. We've already called in January, indeed, the renting social bonus, thinking of the people who were going through the worst, but, besides, blessing 100 percent, they don't have to put any amount: 1.5 million euros. And we just summoned the victims of gender-based violence, which are worth 2.1 million euros. In addition, we have other measures that aim to boost the rental, such as public promotion housing for social rent. We actually have 3,700 homes; at some point they came to say that we had only 100, things like that. All dwellings, which are included in the Rexurbe, which are assisted in rental arrangements and which we have acquired 59 real estate, and therefore more than 100 houses, these are dedicated to rental schemes. And I'm going to give you examples, for example, because that's how we do some pedagogy. For you this would be an empty house, you know why, because you have to define the central government what an empty house is. This is what the Galician Union acquires and what results in this. And do you know how much the renter is? It's 100 euros, the renter, but it's 100 euros, this is the case of Ferrol for each of the houses, but it's also in the rest of the housing that's rehabilitating the Galician Union, which is now over 100. And he says no, you turn around Betanzos, turn around the old Vigo helmet. Go for Ferrol, too. We started the program in Coruña too. And with all those who want to sign it, Mrs. Fernández. The rehabilitated, with the help of master's housing, which are of municipal ownership. For example, I think you're ruling in Rianxo. By the way, we must congratulate the architect who received a mention within the awards of architecture, because it is more than 129 homes that we have rehabilitated with aids and which also do not exceed 100 euros of rent, and which manage the municipalities themselves, first agreed with us and with the relevant aids. And so we could keep talking, including the infra-vival aids, which we just called together, so everyone is entitled to a decent housing. On the other hand, promoters, both private promoters and municipalities, Mrs. Fernández. There's an example, that of the Coruña, but there might be many more municipalities to accommodate. They will reconvene in 2021 and cover up to 50% of the investment, depending on the maximum rental prices and the maximum income of the beneficiaries. Finally, the social pact for housing defines what will be the new empty housing mobilization program. But before that, and indeed we have a law, but we have the State Basic Law, and there's a very important job to do the central government to which you support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u133	Thank you, Counselor. Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment by the Galician Council of the wind sector situation in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u134	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Vice President. I wanted my first words to be of solidarity with the workers of Naturgy in the Coruña and Iberdrola in the Street of Valdeorras, who today suffer the result of an energy model that obeys the interests of others, which leaves in Galicia the socio-environmental impact and leads out the skilled jobs in the midst of an unprecedented crisis and also in unprecedented wind development. [[Applause]] You have today, Mr. Vice-President, again the opportunity -- which you haven't taken advantage of at other times -- so that the Union will stop being a part of the problem and make here some proposals that will stop this relocation of the services associated with the energy generation, a relocation that, in addition, has already left in our important country corpses. Last week we saw, for example -- in addition to the situation of Siemens Gamesa -- as already known, the final liquidation process of Isowat in Coruña; by the way, as we see its subsidiary in Castile and León not only survived, but expanded and expanded into contracts. That, Mr. Conde, is the mirror of his absolute failure with regard to the industrial and energy policy of the Galician Union. Well, Vice-President, today we are again asking the Government of Greece about the situation that is going through the wind sector to move here the social outcry and the great concern that exists in our territory for the application of an uncontrolled and rattled model, and a policy that is being absolutely kamikaze. We are concerned about many aspects of this kamikaze policy, but today we want to focus on two specific issues, which concern us about the strong social alarm and also because its consequences can be irreparable to our country. The first major problem we have encountered is the lack of environmental guarantees; and the second major problem and directly related to this issue is the lack of management, especially because of the legislative changes of the past few weeks and months and the obsolete sectoral wind plan, which would require a new consensus for this country and alternative management. And, I insist, the first major concern we want to focus on today is the environment. We're concerned about this issue, not just the BNG, it's a concern you're also in the Greek municipalities, some even in the People's Party. It's a concern that is in the defense collectives of the territory, it's a concern that is also in the mountainous communities and that even reaches areas like jurisprudence. I have already read to you, with little success, from this rostrum judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, with respect to the Iribio, with respect to Sasdónigas, which directly mark the optical producer of the Board of Galicia, which repeatedly points out how they commit constant environmental injuries; and also all those legal lakes proposed to favour the electric oligopolie. And I ask you, Mr. Conde, how you value this social concern, which you will do since the Council of Galicia in the face of these judgments, but above all, which actions will lead the Government of Greece to stop violating the necessary social guarantees and also environmental guarantees, either by action or by default. Because that's what's happening in our country, under the trap of the green suit, you're hiding a wind model based on the trawl. We insist again, wind energy, because it's renewable, is not automatically harmless in all contexts, in all situations. It has repercussions, impacts on the natural environment, impacts on land uses as well, not only on the construction phase, but also on the exploitation phase; and the reality of 2021, in addition, we insist, it has some dimensions because of the evolution of technology that wasn't at the time that this technology began to spread in our country. [[Applause]] By setting a graphic example, an airliner today, in Galicia in 2021, as it measures a diameter of up to 100 meters and even a height that exceeds 120 meters high. So we're concerned that the only thing you're looking at when implementing this model is that the profits of companies are maximum, when you should also measure the impact of this implantation, and we see that there's an unprecedented lack of control. And I'm going to stop in a particular case, I could talk about many, but to exemplify which is the modus operandi of Galician Union and why we're concerned. That example is the greenhouse of Sweden, a space that is exceptional for its environmental and cultural values, which covers Lama, Plane, Beariz, Covelo, Fornelos and Mondariz. And by setting an example, we could say that in Suido and Upper Tea there are up to twelve types of habitat with Community interest; a large number of formations, for example turbid; other water resources, which are absolutely strategic in a climate emergency context like what we find ourselves; also a large variety of flora and fauna, and species in danger of extinction; and a long et cetera that could not synthesize in this intervention. And what is the modus operandi in this context of the People's Party? Then three very worrisome questions that repeat themselves throughout the territory. The first is that, as in other parts of the country, the expansion of the protection figures of the territory has been frozen over time: for example, the declaration of part of the Swedish greenhouse as LIC and its consequent integration into the Natura Network has remained in the freezer. Today too, it has not progressed the expansion of the LIC of the Tea River, and even now we have a territory that should be protected, that should be excluded from this industrial development and that it has, on the contrary, the sword of Damocles of mining projections, the sword of Damocles of up to 20, 20 wind farms in this part of our country. Secondly, as in other parts of the territory, the principle of caution and caution and the prevalence of environmental protection over territorial and urban management is being broken again, which is not only in the laws of the Greek field, but also in some recent ones, such as the Natural Heritage Act, but also in state or European legislation and which you ignore. And thirdly, how does this develop? For the modus operandi is also a lack of transparency and the modus operandi of law fraud and project fragmentation. For what? [[Applause]] So to speed up the processing and draw important steps of environmental assessment and, in addition, to avoid making an assessment of what this is supposed to be together, because obviously it is not the same thing to evaluate a single park that evaluates 20 going to the same area. That's why, in short, we insist that you are an absolutely kamikaze government in the implementation of this model. It is something that repeats itself, for example, in the Groba, Galineiro, Costa da Morte, in areas overexploited as Lugo we could talk about the case of the Xistral or other areas closer to this Parliament, such as Orders, in the Coruña. Also without forgetting another element that we consider important and that you are ignoring, because also that of defending your own competences because it gives them quite regular, which is that offensive of state processing parks, which for the first time in history are being implanted in our country and it seems that the German Government has nothing to say about the threats on the Central Macizo, on Trevinca or on the Courel. And this, we insist, in a context where, in fact, there is an economic thesis, there is a need for an energy transition, but in a context of climate emergency in which one cannot afford the only concern here is the electrical lobby, change one technology for another, and not take into account any other absolutely decisive factors, such as the preservation of biodiversity. And the line should be the opposite, increasing areas of exclusion, zoning the territory, ordering it and expanding also land management and protection figures, not only by repeating that extension of the frozen Nature Network in time, when, by all means, at that enlargement margin they plan more than 30 wind farms, but also going further, to see what other elements need an update in their protection categories. I mentioned, for example, earlier in this intervention the strategic example of wetlands. That is why we insist on the second big issue that we would like to put again in debate in this House, and it is not the first one, which is the need for a new consensus. I mean, exactly the opposite of what they've been doing with the latest legislative changes. Because, of course, here in Galicia we had a problem -- which was no less -- that was a 1997 sectoral wind plan designed for another society, with other environmental and energy priorities and obviously extremely out of date. But now we have a worse problem, which is that now, under his kamikaze model absolutely up to the last inch of this country is likely to be part of that free bar of the electric oligopolie. And that, Mr. Conde, since the Galician Nationalist Block we insist again that it cannot be, you have to push for a new consensus that will change the current legal framework, which will have a new wind sector plan, which will be participatory, which will count on the agents involved and with transparency. And especially because there's no urgency to develop things like they're doing them, there's no urgency. They just came out -- I suppose you'll know them -- the latest data on Spain's Electric Network; and what do they tell us about 2020? because Galicia was the leader in renewables, the second largest community in the whole state, only after Castile and León; and also about the wind energy baptized, in fact, a generation record in our country in this technology. So the question is, why is it so fast? why don't you stop for a moment, take air, order, plan and avoid damage that is irreparable? Of course, there's no objective reason, Mr. Vice President. That's why we bring this issue today to debate and, once again, insist that you are the government of this country, and not the government of Iberdrola, of Greenalia, of Naturgy and of the electric lobby. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Reply by Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Advisor, Fr Francisco Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, after listening to your intervention, it's hard to understand how you pose any scenario of consensus. You should probably hear your speech again and realize that you're really just talking to yourself and in no case are they coming to this House looking for any kind of consensus, just confrontation and regrettably denying it opportunities to the Greeks and to the Greeks from an industrial point of view. An analysis based on uncertain premises can only lead to an uncertain conclusion, which is simply what you proposed in your intervention. And once again the Galego Nationalist Block transfers a partisan proposal about the wind model in Galicia, the wind model in Spain, and, I'd say, the wind model also at European level. The reality, Mrs. Presas, is very different from what you describe. It is true that you, as I repeat it continually, for in the end you probably believe your words, but you know that reality, I say, is very different. The Galician Union is proposing an orderly wind development, a wind development that is open to any promoter who has technical and economic legal capacity to develop any type of project, because he knows that the sector is liberalized, that is compatible with the rest of the activities and, above all, that is a model that is fulfilling the maximum guarantees from the point of view of environmental protection. In fact, you still have no interest in talking about the wind sector in Galicia. They don't care, that's what they're moving on. And much less to collaborate on the industrial challenges that we have ahead of us for the good of our country. I deeply regret his anachronistic vision, of lack of rigor. And Mrs. Presas, kamikaze politics is the non-permanent of the Galician Nationalist Block to the industry. Kamikaze policy is to leave the workers of Cence and the forest sector, and kamikaze policy is to abandon the workers of the Bridges as well, and not to be supporting the Galician Union, the Council of Bridges, precisely in order to be able to give a future to that plant and also to the workers of the auxiliaries and the transporters. That, Mrs. Presas, is the kamikaze policy of the Galician Nationalist Block in industrial matters. [[Applause]] But if I may, today, before your speech which is full of half truths, I, if I may, will transfer data to you, just data, and from there we could surely find meeting points. You referred to the Law of Economic Reactivation, which you at no time wanted to consent or wake up. I'm going to refer to aspects of this law and you're going to tell me whether the Galician Nationalist Block agrees or disagrees, because I already say that simple, far from reality and regulation are really not useful except for your partisan speech. He knows that the approved text states that all projects must comply with the different minimums and the soil delimitations of the established rural, urban and urbanizable core. Therefore, the fulfilment of these distances is required in all projects. And you know that it will be necessary for the use of the soil to be compatible with the deployment of these infrastructures. But in addition, you know that this law says that priority will be given to wind farms that have the commitment of an industrial project that consolidates or creates a minimum of 25 jobs. Don't you agree with the Galician Nationalist Block on these types of measures? The text says that priority will be given to those power generation projects from renewables, including wind, which are linked to industrial self-consumption. Do you think it's too bad to link wind development to industrial supply? These are cases that are collected in the law that you don't want, nor do you want to consent to the development of the law itself. But this law -- and I continue with data and I refer to the Official Journal of Galicia and the Economic Reactivation Act -- responds to your requests in your inquiry regarding the greater control of wind development in Galicia. And unfortunately you simply enter the debate and not in the consensus either, because you are simply looking for confrontation both in this Parliament and outside this Parliament. They simply aim to stir up a debate by making noise, by damaging the sector, by harming the workers who are looking for opportunities in the development of renewable energy in Galicia and therefore in a really complicated situation. I'm still with the data. You know that wind development in Galicia is part of a territorial planning that is defined with a scrupulous respect for the environment and the Natura network. And I'm going to refer back to the data. You know that administrative processing has to count, and so it is collected in the law, with all the legal, technical and environmental guarantees that are established in the legislation itself; and you know, Mrs. Presas, that wind projects now, as before, are only allowed if they are compatible with the rest of economic activities and the defense of our biodiversity. He knows. And to verify that you know that all wind projects in Galicia are subject to an ordinary environmental impact assessment, which is the most secure and complete procedure that is regulated in State Law 21/2013. [[Murmurs.]] So once again you're dealing with the regulations, both of the autonomous community and of the state law itself. He knows perfectly well about the extent of environmental processing that is required to consider the possible cumulative or synergistic effects with other wind farms, they are in operation or processing. He knows. And you know that all of the associated infrastructures, that is, all of the evacuation trends, access roads, electrical substations and others, have to be established if the analysis is done in a radius, Mrs. Presas, 15 kilometers around the new project being developed. So, Mrs. Presas, again the data just put us in reality, you put them in that bubble where the Galician Nationalist Block tries to transfer its position. I'm gonna keep giving data. Look, the best demonstration that the standards established in Galicia are being met is that, of the 18 wind farms that came into operation in 2019, more than half, Mrs. Presas, have undergone changes, in particular 10, either by cultural heritage reports, by nature conservation reports, by land management reports and urbanism reports or by electrical planning reports, and even by Retegal. And with regard to the 14 parks that are being processed, 11 Mrs. Presas, they should also change for reports from the Galician Union by 80%. I'm talking about the parks of Airs, Campelo, Bustelo, Monte Toural or the requests that are being developed in other parks. Finally, Your Honor, I remind you that the processing of all projects includes a public participation, which is an exercise of permanent transparency on the part of this Government. You know that citizenship has access to all project information, that it can manifest and consult all of its doubts and that it can also present all the considerations it considers appropriate for them to be taken into account. In short, Your Honor, we are in reality, you are simply in a context where the Galego Nationalist Block is simply moving away from reality, and you have no doubt that this Government will continue to wager for the development of renewable energies, for the development of the wind sector and, of course, to prevent the Galego Nationalist Block from taking its position, which is currently moving to Ence, to the Bridges or to Navantia, to the wind sector, because it would be unforgivable that Galicia had lost this opportunity by this position so partisan and so far from the reality that the Galego Nationalist Block has in terms of renewables and in particular matter of the wind sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u138	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Count, "Tell me what you're assuming and tell yourself what you're missing," right? [[Laughter]] Because you started your reply by speaking of consensus, you guys! To speak of consensus, when they have just dealt unilaterally with this Parliament without any kind of prior participation process and without consultation of the sector, a disguised law of administrative axillization which introduced fundamental changes to the Law of the wind sector, and the worst thing is that it was not the first time they did so. [[Applause]] Yes, of course we are talking about consensus, and of course we are asking for a consensus, and a new wind sector plan and a new regulation. I don't know how many people you've also consulted about the environmental and professional field of matter before including that embarrassing additional provision, which directly puts the Nature Network's Master Plan at the service of that industrial development, Mr. Conde, because that's the reality of your law. By the way, that debate has passed, proposals there are, 128 amendments that you've made to your knees. Not a single amendment has been accepted by the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] Then, of course, you come here full of reason to say that BNG invents a reality, I suppose the same reality as dozens of collectives are inventing that are responding to this model, the same reality as mayors and mayors who are very concerned about this situation, some of the People's Party. I don't know if it happens like those convicted of corruption, like Louzán or like Baltar father, who are suddenly not the eyes of history charges of the People's Party and militants of the People's Party, but are there. [[Applause]] We could talk about the mayor of Oia and many more, precisely this to the thread of the question of Suido, Mr. Conde. But, of course, the reality that we denounce is witnessed not only by the important representative collectives of the country, like those more than 30 who sign the manifesto of "Aldeas with horizon"; I can also put here the example of Alente, who is signed a manifesto at the state level, also by many scientists and scientists in our country, who criticizes the offensive being made against biodiversity on a scale also supragal. I suppose it's easy also to say that everyone is wrong but one. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Conde, after that, of course, he says there is no interest; those who have no interest in giving a debate about what is happening in the wind sector are you, it is not the first time we have asked him about legislation on this issue, it is not the first time we have dealt with this issue. Whoever deals with it through the back door is the German Government, it's the Greek Government to try to keep society from knowing what they're doing. And, of course, that you come here to talk about the closure of companies... Look, at Ence I'm not going to stop, that I've seen before that my companion Bará was very attentive, but I remind you that I quoted Siemens-Gamesa or Isowat, I suppose these are examples that give you so much shame that you can't even break up in this rostrum. [[Applause]] You speak of the Bridges, because we speak again of the Bridges whenever you want, you can answer to this parliamentary group how many allegations you have made to the Council of Galicia regarding the issue of evacuation knots. What's the Galician Board gonna do to untend there's a wind model linked to the maintenance of industrial jobs? Because what happens today is that Galicia beats wind power generation records -- by the way, we've generated more than we've consumed, which you were also very concerned about if Galicia stopped being exported, I see that the energy voicer is also very attentive -- 29.3% of 2020 export, data from Spain's Electric Network. [[Applause]] In any case, we see how at this moment of boom what we have is also an ERE boom and redundancies and relocations with the silence of the board. Do you want to change the rules? [[Applause]] Change the rules! But you tell me what the question is that prevents these industrial plans of what you were talking about -- that were already mandatory in a regulation that allowed nothing more to enter the Government -- it also includes measures to ensure that the production of a part, at least of the materials and materials that are installed, is in Galicia, because there is no regulation that impedes that issue, simply that savage neoliberalism that you apply, Mr. Conde. [[Applause]] Well, you haven't had time to talk to me about, for example, the fragmentation of industrial projects, which is something that you're not only consenting to, but sponsoring and making a look at. There are judicial judgments -- and I quoted some -- that denounce this issue. Why is there no severe penalties against this issue? Of course, there are changes in the projects that are being processed, it would just be missing! What half of us don't know about society, why, because you really can't ban public participation, but what you're doing is reducing the procedures to limit the capacity of citizenship. And also because there are no instruments at the heart of the Galician Union so that this question can be made rationally. [[Applause]] You haven't had time to think about why you consciously paralysed the extension of the natural protection catalogue in our territory, because you know that this would prevent many of the projects that are sponsoring important companies, in addition to the People's Party. In short, Mr. Conde, I know you don't like to talk about this, but the bad news is that the Nationalist Block in Wales will continue to bring this issue to debate, and we will insist on an important request, that you stop this mess, that you block the high environmental areas and that you negotiate a new framework for this issue. And that they are -- I insist again -- the Government of Galicia and no longer being the Government of the electric oligopolie. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, I am fully aware that the Galego Nationalist Block, along with its partners -- Republican Left -- -- Bildu, PECAT --, they consider the 78 regime to be a prison for democratic progress, but I believe that, fortunately for everyone, we are living in a rule of law and a democratic state. [[Laughter]] And so when we talk about the development of a sector, we can't talk about political will, but about the actions of public administrations themselves. It seems that you in your speeches, when you want to move your goals from an industrial and economic point of view, forget about that democratic and rule of law reality that we live in Galicia and Spain. And tell us about evacuation, amazing. I have already moved in this House... the problem of the debates, Mrs Presas, is that if we saw debate -- and I am delighted to debate -- logically about an important sector for Galicia, it is that, if we do not maintain a debate with a certain rigour on the data being moved to this Parliament, it is really very difficult. I have already transferred to this Parliament that the Galician Union has made allegations in the public consultation that it has made the ministry about the transitional knots and that in that public consultation the Galician Union has transferred the necessity of linking these transition knots to the maintenance of employment, just what is not defending the Galician Nationalist Block precisely on the Bridges. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I am therefore surprised at your position to simply deny the data that this Government brings to Parliament and maintain its speech, I say, simply endogamic about the position of the Galician Nationalist Block. I'm going to continue with data, because I don't think it's right to try to confuse. You're talking about Nature Network. We have moved in this Parliament that the Government of the Galician Union has not put into operation any wind farms in spaces of Nature since 2009, I repeat, none. Only three repotentigations were authorized, which resulted in a 90% reduction in the number of air carriers operating. It's probably bad for you too, it seems bad that, of 152 air carriers on the Natura Network, we'll replace them with 16. You probably think it's wrong, therefore, the reconnaissance policy we're doing on the Natura Network. But you insist, you insist on trying to divert the debate, you generate false debates where there are no debates. Your Honor, I remind you that in the parks activated in 2019 -- given that they also brought to this House -- owners and promoters reached agreement in 85% of them, 85%, even reaching 100% in some parks that are developing in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I've already transferred all the parks to study to ensure that within a 15-mile radius around the new project is consistent with all regulations. Your Honor, we are constantly giving data and you are always simply transferring political wills without reference and without wanting to consensualize any aspect. I'm still with more data. Look, with the approval of the Wind Sector Act in 2009 the authorization of wind projects is not allowed in spaces declared as areas of special protection of natural values to be part of the Natura Network, since 2009. And you know that since 2014, when the Decree for the Development of the Nature Network Master Plan was established, any activity and the deployment of new wind farms in these areas is expressly prohibited. I don't know why they want to bring the Natura Network here just to confuse and not refer to reality. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, I am delighted that you want to discuss the wind sector and renewables, but I would like you to do so with a little rigor, with some caution in your statements, also in the verbal expressions you use, and from then on, surely, if you want consensus, you will find them in this Government; if you want to confront, we will simply leave the microphone to continue to transfer confusion to the citizen. He's not helping the industrial sector, he's not helping the wind sector in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u142	Thank you, Vice President. As you have already been informed, we are now debating an amendment to the agenda; in particular, it is a question to the Government. Mr. Paulo Ríos Santôme and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the provision of more material and human resources in the service of the 061 Morrazo region.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u143	Question by Mr. Paulo Rios Santôme, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u144	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we bring to plenary a historic complaint in the Morrazo region, which is most necessary and important, if appropriate, with the health situation that we've been living for a year. The 061 Morrazo workers have been asking for more ambulance fleets to be able to respond effectively to emergencies and help save more lives. That's why they've been asking for a new ambulance for the county. This request was never met by the Galician Union and the arrival of the health pandemic caused by the coward-19 the problems were aggravated, undermining the quality of an essential service such as emergency care. The need for fleet enlargement is the problem of cod disinfection of ambulances. The workers denounce the impossibility of performing disinfection in the Town Hall of Cangas, having to move to Vigo and carry out disinfection without sufficient material and human resources, making it extremely dilate the time of reaction to respond to emergencies. In this case, every second more than an ambulance takes a long time to respond to an emergency, the more risk increases. So we're talking about a service that affects thousands of people in a region with a very considerable population increase in summer time and where the current fleet of ambulances is not enough and has been insufficient for almost a decade. At this point, we see that there is no solution even at this summer time, and it is worth asking why the Morrazo district is a region considered second by the Galician Union, since in other territories, as Sanxenxo may be, the Union eliminates and withdraws an ambulance from the Salnes to cover the population increase in summertime in Sanxenxo during the summer. We don't understand it, and we can't understand it. With or without her the Morrazo district needs to increase its fleet of ambulances properly equipped to provide agile and appropriate assistance. Investing, Counsellor, in an emergency service capable of meeting the needs of the population should not even be an object of debate. We believe it's fair and that's why we bring the question to Pleno: what measures will the Board take to overcome this situation that has suffered the Morrazo district and also the workers of the 061 for more than a decade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u145	Thank you, Mr. Rios Santomé. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u146	Good afternoon, president and gentlemen. Your Honor, I apologize for your position and thank you for this flexibility to change the time of the question. The aim of the Public Foundation Health emergencies in Galicia is to give a quick response to every citizen who has a disease, either through telephone attention, where the percentage of resolutions immobilizes resources and is extremely important, or to displacement when needed from the pre-spillar resources. A service that works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and works with a complementary network that serves all Galicia thanks to the available mobile resources and also to humans distributed throughout the community. Among mobile resources, 061 has advanced life support ambulances, basic life support ambulances and medically operated helicopters. Specifically, the two advanced life-supported helicopters in the Santiago and Ourense bases; and the 12 advanced medical advanced vital support ambulances in this case are located in several locations, including one in Vigo and another in Mos, in addition to 4 advanced life-support care ambulances in Coruña, in Santiago, Pontevedra and Vigo, who also care for serious patients; and a total of 107 basic vital support ambulances equipped with two health emergency technicians, trained to perform basic life-support maneuvers, and also with semi-automatic defibrillators; in addition to two conventional ambulances, in this case in Pedraphyta and Folgoso do Courel. These 125 vehicles with their personnel, in addition to the necessary material resources, allow them to meet the entire territory of Galicia, which means, because Galicia -- as you well know -- has a high dispersion of population and many municipalities and many localities. But, as always, the work of the professionals allows us to reach all cities, towns, villages and houses in Galicia. In relation to Morrazo County, for which you ask, 061 has an advanced life support ambulance based on Vigo, another one in Mos and 6 of basic vital support in Vigo, plus 1 based on Moaña and another one based on Cangas. The distribution of these resources, including basic life support ambulances, is carried out with a determined base and an optimal coverage area. But the functioning of all of them is carried out by forming an urgent health response network covering the entire population of the autonomous community. I mean, an ambulance that has its base in the municipality doesn't mean that it only covers that population; that's what happens with the assistance ambulances in the Morrazo case, that both the Cangas and Moaña ambulances cover the entire population and make mutual reinforcement. The Health Council guarantees with this network attention as soon as possible to all patients who need it both in this region of Morrazo and throughout Galicia. And it continued to be so this past year, in which the clean services had to live with the new demands that generated the pandemic. So last year 2020 the two Morrazo ambulances did a total of 4,821 services, which I assumed 328 services less than in 2019, where 5,149 services were performed. Average daily exits by 2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u147	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u148	...it was 866 in the county.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u149	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u150	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I thank you for your review of all the emergency services in the country, helicopters and so on, but, well, please focus on what you are asked, and I hope that the resolution of the question remains what will be done by the Committee of Galicia, nothing. [[Applause]] That's what I'm afraid of. I'm sorry, but at best... well, I understand that you do know the territory of what we're talking about, but logically an ambulance can't give, two ambulances in a county with the population level of The Morrazo, especially the one approaching in the summer, is completely insufficient. We've been talking about it for many years, and it can't be justified, as they've already justified on another occasion, that an ambulance based on Mos may be at any point in the Morration in half an hour; that, I don't know if you know a little what the routes are, but it's completely unfeasible. Right now we're talking about how long it takes to take care of an emergency tripled from the arrival of the vault, so I told you about the issue of disinfection and so on. It is completely perverse and manipulative to collect the data, the data you give with the report, the remittance to the 061 Cangas Town Hall, where you compare, as you have just done, the outputs and emergencies addressed in 2020 with 2019. A 2020 marked by confinement, marked by much lower use of tourism, travel and all the problems that the pandemic had and which it still has. Therefore, it is entirely regrettable that they are looking at 2020 data, which is coming down or justifying the non-increase in that fleet based on completely conjunctural issues that have nothing to do with claims that have already been in the Morrazo for more than a decade. Investing, as I said before, in health and emergency should not be the subject of debate and I believe that the Galician Union would have to stop taking sides with economic results and economic interests in order to get on the side of health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ríos, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u152	Thank you very much. I hope you do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u153	Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u154	Yes, thank you very much. Your Honor, I was giving you data on the number of daily exits by 2020, which, as I just said, may not have understood me very well, by 2020 the number of services was 328 services less than by 2019. And in 2019 and in recent years the range was 5,000. Let's assume that we're talking about 5,000 and we're going to assume that this average I'm going to give you now is 8.66 in Cangas and 4.50 in Moaña; 8.66 means 2.7 out every hour, or 4.50 in Moaña means one exit every 5.3 hours. If you think this is an inappropriate use of resources, you can tell me which number you consider appropriate. You say that attendance time has doubled and tripled. I don't know what data you're handling. I, with official data, can tell you that the range of attention in the region and, in particular, in the area of Cangas and Moaña is in the range of 10 minutes, in 2018, 2019 and 2020. So talking about 10 minutes, 12 minutes isn't talking about triple. And, with respect to the changes that have been introduced at this time by the vault, it's something as simple as when an ambulance makes a displacement, in this case to the Cunqueiro Álvaro or the Povervisa, it needs to be disinfected below. What we're doing is precisely, to ensure more time for the ambulance to be available, it's cleaning up near the hospital where this performance takes place, so that around Cangas the ambulance is already operational. Perhaps this is what you don't like too much, that the ambulance is operational, but precisely to ensure greater access is made at the point of use. In any case, what has been done in these last few days is to reach an agreement with Civil Protection so that ambulances serving Vigo can be disinfected when they arrive at Morrazo, in this case in the Civil Protection facilities, thus increasing, on one hand, by worsening the return time without sterilizing and improving access back to their site. With this, what I mean is that the times of assistance at Morrazo are guaranteed. I'm going to make a comparison, we now have an ambulance in Cangas, another in Moaña, of the range of 26,000 inhabitants per ambulance in each case, and in Vigo, for example, that we have six basic life support ambulances, the range is an ambulance for every 49,448 inhabitants. So, I think the ambulance ratio and response time especially on the Morrazo Peninsula is entirely appropriate and we're ensuring a proper and axile response to patients who need it on this peninsula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u155	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the plenary until four and a half o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u156	Good afternoon to all of you again. We followed the plenary and moved on to question 7.1 of questions to the Government. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the objectives achieved by the agreement signed with Fegamp in connection with the sanctioning proceedings linked to the fight against cowardly 19th.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u157	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, these days we have served one year of the beginnings of the pandemic that afflict us, an unexpected pandemic, more unexpected for some than for others, who have ignored the health alerts they have been receiving for a long time than they say at the Spanish Health Alerts and Emergency Preparedness Coordination Centre, and the Spanish Government has not been able to move forward or buy health equipment to deal with the pandemic, had no PPE for emergency health personnel, and even when they bought them with false testing because they were bought by companies without a license from the National Medical Administration or even defective masks that caused the infection of thousands of health workers in Spain. They have come to announce that in Spain at most there would be some case diagnosed to be overwhelmed and bring more than 3 million positives, another 3 million unaccounted and 100,000 deaths. In the face of this disastrous and ineffective management and to avoid the wear it produced, the Government of Spain gives up and leaves in the hands of autonomous communities the management of the pandemic. This was the resignation of the Government of Spain which has not even been able to update the existing legislation to the health, economic and social crisis situation that we are living in. I'm no longer talking about regulating telework, which I'm not talking about regulating and updating the e-government, which I'm no longer talking about updating the reconciliation legislation of the year 95, which I'm not talking about anymore; I'm not talking about a law that agitates administrative procedures, which I'm talking about as well; I'm talking about priority, having a new organic health law, modifying and updating health legislation to the current situation. They just had to update the law so all the decisions that had been made against the virus had a legal and sufficient referendum. He asked President Feijó for adequate health legislation, and it had to be the Autonomous Community of Galicia that he had to make a new health law to manage the pandemic, to protect better health and to do so with guarantees that the administrators would not be subject to arbitrary decisions. We had to equip ourselves with tools to manage with guarantees and legal certainty the pandemic, and that's why we were also criticized. And in this context, while we managed the pandemic without the help of the Government and without legal tools, on November 27, Vice-Presidentship First signed an agreement with Fegamp to articulate the management order and perform collaborative auxiliary actions in the processing of the sanctioning procedures of the municipalities related to non-compliance with prevention measures for the fight against cowardice-19. So the Union lends itself to the municipalities to adhere to this agreement, technical and material assistance needed to process these sanctioning procedures when non-compliance is within the scope of the competences of local corporations. We ask you, Mr Vice-President, to balance the Government of the objectives reached with the agreement signed with the Fegamp to articulate the management order and carry out these auxiliary collaborative actions in the processing of the sanctioning procedures competent to the municipalities related to the failure to comply with the measures to prevent the fight against covid-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before answering and I want to give above all in the replica concrete figures of how we are now, above all predictions, if we follow the trend of how many actions there can be and talk about the kind of conduct that is being the subject of more actions, I would like to frame and explain why it is that if you signed this convention, what you are doing to the Council of Galicia in aid to the municipalities in this matter. The reason for being, as you said, is to see what happened during the first phase of confinement, where there was, could be logical at that time, although there were rapid mechanisms of reaction that were not put in place, it was a new situation, but what we all saw was that there was no legal framework that regulated many of the actions that had to do the forces and bodies of security, it was difficult to characterize certain conduct. There was therefore an obvious lack of legal certainty to typify and hence to sanction conduct, and there was a huge ignorance of who were the bodies competent to process, to make the complaints and then to process them. So that's what the Galician Union wanted to avoid with that very public health law. We first ask for a legal framework at national level, which would have been coherent and logical; not only has it been possible, but the State, in fact, now threatens to bring us before the Constitutional Court simply because it wants to provide legal security and because it wants to have a legal framework where such sanctions can be criminalized and, therefore, where such offences have to be denounced, in the end because they can have a security which the person who actually failed to comply with because he is punished. I think this goes in everyone's best interests and that's why we made that legal framework. And then we had to know who was responsible for handling these complaints and then we had to deal with that huge amount of complaints that was taking place. We asked the Advisory who was competent, and the Advisory no doubt said that the competent, for sanctions that were assumed in the UN convention, were the Town Councils. Most of them understood that way. It is also a statement that, rather than being of concern, which would be the logic for the whole world, because it clarified the legal framework, there were councils that this is what we are most concerned about at the Galician Council, that they said they did not accept, but they did not accept or say who had to be competent to deal with the actions. I'm saying this because what's going on is that some municipalities have now not delegated to the board the power to sanction because they would say it's so much as to recognize that they're competent, so they delegate the competition, but they're not doing anything at all either. And, therefore, there are councils right now, and that concerns us very much, which are not handling the complaints that are being filed for breach of health standards in their municipalities. We tried to avoid all this with the agreement, fortunately there are 138 municipalities that understood that there was a way to do things right and that agreement is now in force...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u162	...in the second part of the replica... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u163	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u164	Thank you, President. I was looking at the clock because Mr. Aranguena was missing I thought we started before time, but no, I see we started in time. Look, thank you, Mr. Vice President. The measures taken to control the pandemic need to be met and mostly we have a pretty responsible population that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u165	Silence, please!, silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. He said most of the time we have a responsible population that meets the measures that are put on it, the restrictions and the legislation that is in force. Of course, failure to comply with these measures, usually failure to comply with legislation has consequences not only for what it does, but for its environment, but in this case, in the case of the pandemic, non-compliance with restrictions or legislation itself has adverse consequences. In many cases, so bad that it comes to the death of people who can be infected with a special vulnerability, and in that case, Mr. Vice President, I think sanctions are fundamental. The penalty for these very few people, because the percentage is not very high, but there is, to punish those irresponsible behaviors of that low percentage of the population, but also that they have a pedagogical effect to prevent there from being breached in the future, to prevent the defaults of the alarm state. The truth is that we prefer there were other mechanisms that were not the alarm state, but we see that in the Government of Spain it is what you like most, rather than modifying the Health Law because they have been in the last year, as I said, the pandemic was unexpected but we have been in the last year that they could have modified the law and not always resort to the state of alarm. For failure to comply with the alarm state, failure to comply with the insulation, failure to comply with the openings and failure to use the mask in public places. We would like to know, Mr Vice-President, whether you can tell us the number of municipalities that have acceded to the agreement, the data of the complaints submitted and what kind of infringements are being sanctioned. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Government's reply, you have the floor of Vice-President First, Counsellor of the Presidency, Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I told you, Mrs. Prado, 178 municipalities are the ones that are now acceding to this agreement. And excluding the seven cities, which were considered from the beginning that they had the ability and even experience and officials who were fit to do the processing, there would be 306 municipalities that could have joined us. They are of all political colors, I mean, if you've made a review, you'd see that ideology here, has demanded much more practical feeling and even the need and awareness that it is necessary to make clear that anyone who violates health standards, if it is the subject of a complaint, will be punished. I say this because it's a symptom of respect, first of all to the state's security forces and bodies that do their work and make good complaints and must therefore be dealt with. Secondly, they're asking for hospitality associations, which are the first to say there has to be a watch and, of course, everyone who violates the rules must be sanctioned because this is in general benefit and goes, above all, with the objective that the steps that are taken in relation to relaxation in the escalation should be consolidated and we should not go back for non-compliance with people who don't understand that we're playing collective health. I say it because, again, there are municipalities that are not in agreement with the board and that are, it's true, there are some who are processing these complaints for their part, but there are others that are not doing anything at all. And this must be made manifest because I think it is very serious that complaints are being made by the state's security forces and bodies and that there are councils that simply do not pass through them and that they have decided, in addition, that they do not delegate this competition to the Council of Galicia. Of those who have exercised their responsibility there are 178, of which 57 are from the province of Coruña, of Ourense are 52 municipalities, of Pontevedra 43 and, finally, of Lugo 26. Where more complaints came from these municipalities, 3,074 from the municipalities of the province of Pontevedra, 2,000 from the province of Coruña, 1,378 from Ourense and last 708 from the province of Lugo. How are they in processing right now? Boots are always complicated until one person is designated in the council that is the one who is interlocuting with the Galician Board in handling the complaints, but this has already begun, there are more than 1,000 complaints already notified to the offenders, so they already know that they are denounced and therefore the sanctioning procedure begins; there are 1,200 that will be notified in the coming days; and the rest, since there are nearly 30 people, 30 officials from the Galician Board experts in addition to the sanctioning procedure, is what they usually do, who are processing these complaints. So all those who have come to us up to those 7,000 will be notified in the next few days. Nine months ago, it's the maximum time for the sanction procedure, of course, we won't wear it out. The most common type of sanctions, with a lot of distance from the others: not wearing masks, both in the street and in the interior; the second is not to meet holes; much less, there are, too, non-compliance of hours in the lodging; and, finally, some offences related to not respecting the curfew. And finally, we have to say, and I finish now, Mr. President, all the security forces and bodies are working and working well, so I think it's particularly serious that the allegations that nobody makes them through, I think that can't happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u169	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u170	...the Civil Guard, logically because they're small municipalities, which most complaints have transferred to us, also the Autonomic Police that is important and the different local police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u171	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question from Da María do Carme González Iglesias and D. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the reasons of the Galician Union to banish participation mechanisms that consolidate the Barreras shipyard and the Vigo naval sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u172	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u173	Thank you. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we've been hearing about hummingbirds all day in this Chamber and I'm not going to be any less, I bring a true hummingbird, with all the characteristics of one of those 80s and 90s fulebrons, who were very long, with hundreds of chapters in which nothing happened, and if it happened, it was a further misfortune for the unfortunate protagonist, who paradoxically always was a woman, with plots, secrets, bad ones that ended up in jail; as you can see, many similarities with what's happening with Barreras. The hope is that it always ended well, let's hope that Barreras will happen the same, but at this point we are quite skeptical. We bring to this Parliament today the last chapter of this choleron, Evrima left the yard last week to be painted in Santander and now Barreras is found without a workload and the staff of the assistants have already abandoned the facilities, they don't let them or remove the material. You will understand, Counselor, how uncertain these companies have. The handful of workers left on the yard will be dedicated to conditioning the workshop and warehouse and flattening the helmets of the Havila. It seems, because there is no guarantee or deadline, that Evrima will return to Barriers to be completed, and then what? Poor business management is part of the problem that has been carrying barriers for years, but also autonomous and state governments are guilty of their passivity and lack of plans for the future for the Welsh naval. Do you know the current situation of the yard, Mr. Conde? The debts incurred with 36 assistants amount to EUR 24 million, although Uninaval estimates that they can amount to EUR 40 million and affect half a thousand companies. You have no requests or guarantees that you will be charged with work in the future, no director of production, no technical office or office of new projects. Bad future with these vimbies. Are we going to continue funding public money barriers without guaranteeing workload and employment? From BNG we say no. In the face of uncertainties and the lack of seriousness of the business project, it is the moment of a public intervention in Barreras. What plan do you have, as Industry Counsellor, for Barreras?, do you have any plans or have already challenged the yard and you're going to let it die? At the BNG we see only a way out of the future for Barriers and go through public intervention. Do you agree, contemplate this possibility, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. González. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the vice president and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs González, indeed, the board in the naval sector, and particularly Barreras, acted whenever a solution was needed; when there was a problem, there was always a solution by the board of Galicia. I moved it a month ago and transferred it as we made it easier to carry a load of work when a few were betting on the galley ship in 2012; we made it easier to capitalize on the yard when it needed to develop and diversify its productive capacity, in 2013; we made it easier to finance the fleet construction in 2017; and we also facilitated the continuation of the naval activity in the Vigo River in 2019, launching a specific loan line for the rescue of companies affected by the yard situation through a loan line that benefited 22 companies with a total amount of 12.9 million euros. So, Your Honor, I don't know what is meant to accuse this Government when we always, at all times, act with transparency and responsibility precisely to protect a sector, in the Vigo River, and to protect and defend the maintenance of jobs in Barreras. And from the very first moment, in the current situation of Barreras, we have contacted the yard and the rest of the administrations to collaborate and actively look for solutions that certify the continuity and maintenance of jobs. And we, Mrs González, do not discard any formula to support the viability of the yard, be it participative loan, be it capital. If we are currently evaluating the participatory loan formula is simply because it was requested by the company. But before -- and we agree -- Barreras must prove that it has a solid industrial plan with detailed information on the present situation and the actions that guarantee its future, and therefore it will have to ensure that it is possible to obtain funding from the Galician Union that it has guarantees to complete in time the Evrima cruise, which has the ability to implement new requests and, above all, that it can reach an agreement with the auxiliary industry to pay off the debts it has pending. So, Your Honor, we will support this project whenever there are guarantees of workload and guarantees of viability on the yard. But, Mrs González, we need the government to work together through the solvency fund as well as in other countries. We have been moving to the Ministry of Industry for months at the request to jointly assess the financial needs of Barreras and at the moment, and unfortunately, Mrs González, we are continuing without any response from the Ministry and there will be no viability without this action by the solvency fund. There's a commitment from the Galician Union and we hope that this commitment will be on all sides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u177	Thank you. Mr. Count, as you know, the Barreras situation, and I want to think that for Junta too, there's a lot of concern in Vigo district. Barreras is a fundamental piar in the naval sector of the Vigo River, but it is also in the industrial fabric of the region. We can't let a new business crisis endanger the yard. The Barrier workers and the helpers at this moment, all they care about is not to lose their jobs, because they know that their future depends on the political decisions of those who rule, in Galicia, you, the People's Party, who also have competition in this matter. From Vigo we ask him to put a stop to the loss of jobs in our city. In the last year, 2,500 industrial jobs were destroyed in Vigo, and today there are 5,400 jobs less in the vigue industry than in 2009, the year in which the People's Party came to rule in the Galician Union. And these data are not subjective, Mr. Conde, they are real, palpable. In vigue, we'd say they're just looking at each other. We who are from Vigo remember the departure of the workers from the yards of Beiramar as an avalanche of people who caused traffic retentions so we avoided circulating around the area at that time. Now, it's sad to go through that place these same hours. If the Barreras entrepreneurship doesn't present a feasibility plan, what are we going to do? We are going to let the yard disappear, which is the fundamental base of the naval sector of the Vigo River. Counselor, rule with height of sight, rule for the future, leave the improvisations and patches that, like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u179	...well he told us, he's doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u181	...and make a work plan for Barreras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u182	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u183	Mrs. González, I thank you for your intervention and I perceive you agree with my intervention. I didn't hear in his replica anything that's different from the betting point of view by the naval sector in Vigo and the barreras bet. So we're gonna keep making that bet. What surprises me is the position of the Galego Nationalist Block, which aims for the Galician Union to support the Barreras situation, I have already moved that situation necessarily goes through the financing of the yard, this funding is so requested by the company, EUR 8 million to Xesgalia to support the completion of the ship and the maintenance of the yard, and EUR 30 million to the bottom of solvency. You want to tell me where the BNG's position is? Because you have voted that it is not precisely that the viability of the shipbuilding industry can be guaranteed through the mechanism for the recovery and resilience of European funds. But you want to tell me where the Galego Nationalist Block is, that with one hand he says one thing and with the other he says the opposite. That lack of coherence doesn't logically solve the barrier situation. As unfortunately, and you were the one who made reference to the industrial situation, not only Vigo, I stretch it to the rest of Galicia, of course. Where is the Galician Nationalist Block defending the workers of Ence?, where is it? Where is the Galician Nationalist Block defending the workers of the auxiliary industry of Navantia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u184	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u185	Where is he? Where's the Galician Nationalist Block defending the bridge workers? You want to tell me where the Galician Nationalist Block is defending this country's industry? Or you simply stand for certain jobs, as always. As always in the Galego Nationalist Block, with an absolutely radical message in industrial matters when it comes to jobs [[Applause]] Your Honor, we'll keep working. We have transferred to the Barriers that clearly has a commitment by the Galician Union to facilitate this financing, that this funding will necessarily be linked to guarantees for the completion of the ship and the burden of work in the future. And we also transferred to him that the government has to react. The Government has not responded to the Galician Council for three months on a concrete proposal to work together for the establishment of the solvency fund. Surely you should use more time to talk to your government partner and get the Ministry of Industry to respond to that need and activate the solvency fund, as other countries of the European Union are doing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u186	Thank you, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Sol Díaz Mouteira and six other Members and Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of the implications for the Autonomous Community of Galicia the formulation of Article 18 of the draft law on climate change and energy transition and the result of its vote in the presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u187	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u188	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Transition means change, evolution, transformation, but not chaos. And precisely chaos is what Mr. Sánchez's government and his ministry of economic and economic disaster wants to install by destroying a source of wealth and employment as basic as traditional is in Galicia the sea-industry chain. The Socialist Government and its partners want a free coastal Galicia from all industry, an empty coastline of any kind of activity, destined solely for their visual enjoyment and taking over several thousand companies, tens of thousands of jobs, a way of life of many thousands of families and causing absolutely unaccountable economic losses. And how does the Government do this? For the purest style Pedro Sánchez, by the back door, by surprise, without dialogue or consensus. [[Murmurs.]] This is what happens with the terrible and terribly negative article 18 of the Climate Change Bill, a juridical juridical juridical malabarism with which the PSOE wants to modify the 2013 Back Law of a People's Government regarding concessions and extensions of activity. A tiny law of climate change, with 36 articles presented 753 amendments. A poor, politically challenged idea, on the left, on the right, by the nationalists, both Catalan and Basque. That's what this bill is tremendously harmful and with an article 18 which has no environmental justifications or supported by socio-economic studies. They didn't listen to the fishing industry, they didn't listen to the cannery manufacturers, they heard the Galaga Association of Debuggers, batteries, aqueductors. Nor did they listen to the mayors and the socialist mayors of the Coast of Death, of the Arousa River, who are asking to take into account the peculiarities of the Galician coast. Time rushes, ladies and gentlemen, because the work in the presentation ends this week and will be voted in commission after Holy Week. At this time, and until the last breath, from the People's Party, we're going to continue working elsewhere to suppress this article so prejudicial to the interests of the coastal Galicia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party and this parliamentary group will always be on the side of the modernization and transformation of economic activity, not of its disappearance or destruction, playing with confusion and creating insecurity with the central government's claims. So, Counsellor, today, we thank you for your presence and for your evaluation, for the assessment that is made of the implications that the community has for the formulation of article 18 of the Climate Change Bill and, above all, for that result from the vote on your presentation. Nothing else for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u190	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Díaz, as you have well said, since Galicia we are deeply concerned about the decisions that are being made by the central government and that are jeopardizing the future of our industries, the industries that give thousands of jobs on our coast. However, we are already getting used to it, since it is not the first time that the Central Government directly attacks the maritime-terrestrial public domain concessions. First it was the attempt to change the law by means of a regulation, to which the Union showed its opposition and that the Government had finally had to retreat because it was manifestly illegal. Remember, about a year and a half ago, the Members who are on the other side also laugh and eventually time gave us reason. Now we're faced with a new maneuver and that maneuver goes through the inclusion of the famous article 18, 18.3 and 18.4 of the Climate Change Act to modify a back law. The question is, why is there not a new law of back?, why is there no transparency?, why is there no participation?, why is there always darkness in this whole process? This involves a real attack on the Greek companies located on the coast. But, look!, it affects all companies equally, not one and the other not, because there is a certain obsession with certain companies and others not, it affects absolutely all. This article regulates that no concession in any case may be longer than 75 years, including extensions, and nullifies administrative acts which extend this maximum period. In addition, it has retroactive effects, although the central government denies it by activating and passive. The Climate Change Bill is currently being processed at the Congress of Deputies and is being voted on, as Mrs Díaz said, these votes are very revealing, and we all stand there. On the one hand there is the PP, always on the same line, defending the companies that are on the coast; on the other hand the PSOE, which we already know is what it thinks; and it is the third step within all this, which is the BNG, which, gives me the laugh when it says that the things that come to Galicia are thanks to them and then they are unable to convince the Plural Group that voted the maintenance of this article in their writing. And what's going to happen to blow, humility is fundamental. [[Murmurs.]] This clearly shows who's fighting the coast, who's fighting the industry, who's fighting the companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u191	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u192	...in the face of others who allow parties which have no coastline, or even Bildu, to decide how to refuse the Greek coast
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u193	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u194	...and to harm our people and our workers. From Junta we have clear what we want, defending our coast, their facilities, which have legitimately granted their concessions. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u195	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u196	Thank you, Counselor, for your explanations. Without a doubt, the legal insecurity and confusion that the central government is generating with the Climate Change Act will have damaging consequences in the marine industry chain, as long as there is no investment and there is a relocation of companies that will not be viable outside the coast. Mr. Sánchez's Government never liked the 2013 Back Law and made every possible turn to hide its true intentions. In view of the failure of the attempt to amend the Rules of the Law on the Back, he chose another way to see if he passed more unnoticed, as the advisor said, putting it in the bag of a Climate Change Act. And what is even more serious, affecting retroactively the concessions and extensions. This is the only way to understand the meaning of this amendment, because if, as they say, it had only affected future concessions, it would not be necessary to include such an unfortunate article in the bill. And if we also take it to the practical ground, why not say that the Vice-President of the Government, through an advisory committee that will be approved with this Climate Change Act, will be generated an ad hoc arbitrary reports, requested by the Government to decide which facilities, to decide which companies on the coast will be able or will not renew this concession. We're talking about dozens of installations, ladies and gentlemen, ignored from Madrid's armchairs by someone who doesn't understand or deliberately ignore that the first ones interested in defending the Galician coast are those who have their way of life on the coast. So, Counsellor, I think last week you sent a letter to the Minister, a letter accompanied by a report from the General Legal Counsel, and we would be interested, to this People's Parliamentary Group, to know what the meaning of that report is and, above all, what their considerations are. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. For the Government's reply, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u198	Thank you, President. Today we proceed to notify the 87 municipalities affected by maritime-terrestrial public domain a letter in which they are given the instrument so that they can visualize all uses and resources that will be affected to leave before the Climate Change Act with Article 18.3 and 18.4 because clarity is fundamental. And we have to also say very clear and loud that the central government is betting on relocation, and that relocation is for Galicia, but it is also for the municipalities, from there the information that they will then have to value, and it will have very negative repercussions on the Greek coast. Indeed, we have transferred it from the Government of Galicia, and by letter from the Counsellor of the Sea and myself, the report prepared by the General Legal Counsel, which includes that Article 18.4 is directly unconstitutional, and also determines that this paragraph of rule, 18.3, is contrary to legal security. The report says: "That, if you understand that this article applies only to future concessions, you would be repeating Article 66 of the law of the year 2013." Therefore, the only possible interpretation of Article 18.4 is that it applies to concessions already granted, thus giving a retroactive character, although some Members or Members continue to say no. What it turns out is that no extraordinary extension, even those granted since the year 2013, can exceed 75 years, adding up to the previous time, that is, from the beginning. In this way the Central Government can declare null the extraordinary extensions already granted. That's why the General Legal Counsel of the Galician Council questions the constitutionality of article 18.4, for having retroactive character and also affecting legal security. It warns of its unconstitutionality to understand that it violates the prohibition of retroactivity set out in Article 9.3 of the Constitution and to affect rights already integrated into the property of the subjects concerned. Moreover, the report considers that Article 18.3 would also go against legal security. On this line, we warned that the new law would give rise to those affected to be able to claim a possible compensation. In view of all this, we ask the Central Government to delete this article because it affects legal security, and we also ask the groups that can intercede in this decision here in Parliament to hear clearly that, if they need this legal report, of course, we have to hold them to give it to them, but to fight for Galicia and for the future of the Greek coast.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u199	Thank you very much. From Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, from G. P. of the Galician Socialists, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of the meeting held on 10 March between the President of the Galician Council and the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda in which topics were addressed on the Galician infrastructures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u200	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u201	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen; welcome, Counselor. For two weeks ago in Madrid, the president of the Galician board, Mr Feijóo, met with the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Mr. Abalos, and advanced in unlocking key infrastructures for Galicia. They dealt with matters of utmost importance for Galicia, such as the bonuses in the beaches of AP-9, the connection of the outer port of the Coruña, the southern exit of Vigo, the Atlantic corridor or the arrival of the AVE to Galicia this year, among other matters. After that meeting, the president of the Galician Union thanked Minister Abalos for having regular meetings so that he could move forward in the priorities of mobility and infrastructure for the Greeks and the Greeks. He was also grateful for the Ministry's commitment to the construction of railway access to the outer port of the Coruña. Mr Feijó also thanked him for the central government's budgetary commitment to meet the AP-9 reductions, as well as for ratifying the commitment that the real decree that will give rise to those bonuses in AP-9 is ready in the first half of the year. On the part of the president of the Union, it seemed that these relations between administrations were normalized and key infrastructures were also unblocked for our autonomous community. But the next day, you and other positions of the People's Party, but in particular you, would disauthorise Mr Feijóo and question these commitments. The Councilor of Infrastructures of the Galician Union, disallowing the President of the Galician Union, or it may be that the President of the Galician Union, on the other hand, is what disallows you. But one out of two, because statements made by two officials of the same German Government are totally incompatible. Counsellor, who do we have to listen to, you or Mr. Feijóo? You here yesterday at parliamentary headquarters also questioned and criticized the arrival of the AVE, the improvements in the railway, the bidding of the study of the southern exit of Vigo, the bonuses in the beaches of AP-9, the Lugo-Santiago highway, the railway access to the outer port of the Coruña. He dedicated all his intervention, almost all his intervention, to criticizing the central government. That's why today we ask you from my group that, by abandoning those hooliganism acts you practice, taking off the People's Party T-shirt and putting on the T-shirt of the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, you answer us what assessment makes of the commitments reached at that meeting between Mr. Abalos and Mr. Feijóo. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u203	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'm surprised at today's question, but of course I am thrilled to be able to answer today's meeting with Minister Abalus and President of the Board on March 10th. Of course I can say and affirm, of course, that it was a constructive meeting, but it is a meeting where only words have remained and there is certainly a lot to materialize and therefore the festive valuations that you carry you will have to carry them out when you go materializing the questions that are delayed and delayed by the Government of Spain in terms of infrastructure in Galicia. As you know, it's the second meeting in three years, so I assure you that there are many subjects enough to deal with and that we couldn't treat everyone at all, it was impossible. We are pleased that there is already a negotiation and a will, it is a step forward, but it was a step forward thanks to the President of the Galician Union, not to be mistaken, it was thanks to the leader, of course, to the persuasion, to the negotiating capacity of the President of Galician Union, who managed to convince the minister; despite the contradiction of other high positions, he was able to convince the minister that we could have advanced forward. Thanks to the president of the board, it was accepted that the Galician board had participated and responded to the proposal for bonuses. And it's also logical, if the transfer will come to Galicia, the logical thing is that Galicia can think of those bonuses of a transfer that will come. By the way, the Socialist Party is dilating, dilating and dilating in Congress, perhaps you can answer me why it is so dilating to debate the transfer we would have light on it. The AP-9 proposal, we know it at the Galician Summit, worked, elaborate, with calculations, supported, solid, and since then the greatest experts on AP-9 are the Greeks. In an expert committee, which we know what the mysterious government expert committees of Spain are like. The greatest experts in AP-9 are the Greeks, who pay for it and suffer from an upturn deduction in the last few years that is of course worrying. At the joint we have knowledge of the territory, we have knowledge of AP-9, we have knowledge of the users, so we proposed a bonus proposal. Minister Abalos committed himself to this royal decree in the first half of the year, which takes place in the second half, but I am surprised that the Socialist Party in return votes against these bonuses in the Deputy of the Crown and also in the Vigo Council itself. You vote not for AP-9 bonuses in other institutions. The port of Langosteira, indispensable, 140 million euros. At high speed kept that date, we hope that in the autumn there is that high speed in competitive times in Galicia, but there are many things that have not been addressed, such as the intermodal stations, which advance through the Galician Union, which are delayed by the Government of Spain, so there are many things still pending to speak for the month of April. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u204	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u205	Thank you, President. I was wondering if I could explain why the PSOE is blocking the AP-9 transfer. Unbelievable to ask me that. Can I ask you why Mrs. Pastor has blocked the debate on this transfer on several occasions since the Bureau of the Congress of Members? [[Murmurs.]] Because this is the case, because the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies has twice blocked the debate of this transfer, and a Government chaired by the Socialist Party has arrived and this transfer has already been discussed on two occasions. Therefore, Counselor, a little knowledge of the facts. [[Applause]] We can say that the Socialist Party votes against AP-9's peas. But if it was us, it was the Socialist Party that put in the general budgets of the State this bonus for the peas of AP-9, which certainly the People's Parliamentary Group voted against these budgets. So what you're voting against is that the peas on AP-9 are being increased is the People's Party, because the general budgets of the Socialist Party state include that bonus of the peas. Look, of course, you say it was a constructive meeting, it began in those terms, then it started to question that they were left alone in words and not going on to the facts. The facts are there, the facts are also reflected and budgeted in the general budgets of the state, with which greater realities, Counselor, I don't know what you are asking for. Look, at this point in time and with the same view -- as I said yesterday -- in those European funds, it's essential that both administrations work in coordination so that Galicia reaches the largest number of European funds; and, therefore, they work and present the best projects for Galicia to get out of this fund-sharing. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Government's reply, the Minister of Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u207	Thank you. Well, I see that the real reason for this question that you make is to get a bit of a focus on the work done by others; and, therefore, they want to point a little bit at the work done that they can do other jobs and the others. And so you want to congratulate them, but I have no arguments to congratulate the Socialist Party of Galicia, at least I have no real argument to congratulate the Socialist Party in Galicia. What have you really done to defend the legitimate interests of Galicia against the current Government of Spain? What you have done, I believe that, when it comes to speaking, you are silent and therefore I cannot congratulate you, the Socialist Party in Galicia for defending Galician interests before the Government of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] You voted not at the expense of AP-9's fees in the Deputation of the Crown, the Socialist Party, and the Vigo Town Hall. They want to self-propose Poles of the year but not because they voted not at the AP-9 casualties in the Crown Deputy. Ask yourself if you've gone that way or if you haven't. And I also don't know that the secretary-general got together with the minister at a meeting to take a picture, but with no shot at all because they didn't wake up and nothing was done. And therefore I cannot congratulate them. I've never heard him pay down the AP-9 peas to the Socialist Party here in Galicia, I've heard he paid the Galician board, who paid the Greeks for the second time the AP-9 peas. That's what I heard from the Socialist Party, who pays Galicia, who pays the Greeks. That's what I heard. I didn't hear anything from AP-53. And so I don't see them defending Galician interests, and I'm going to set clear examples. The Socialist Party, at the top of the Council of the Crown on February 23, the mayor of the Socialist Party did nothing. Just for studying the resuscitated. In Monforte, after this Wednesday meeting, that Wednesday we couldn't treat the one from AVE to Lugo, it didn't matter; and, therefore, he failed the truth with the justification he gave. Well, you cut, you cut... and also delighted the Socialist Party of Galicia. And, of course, I want to keep working constructively, but my duty, my duty is to defend Galicia's legitimate interests. I don't do... you take everything as criticism, I do chronicle and there everyone who draws their conclusions... but they draw conclusions! [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter is that the chronicles bother because they're there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'd like you to confirm in the autumn that we have these competitive times with Galicia, from AVE to Galicia committed by Minister Abalos and the president of ADIF. [[Murmurs.]] I'd like you to commit to us: 3 hours and a quarter with the Crown, 2 hours and 50 minutes with Santiago. I hope they are all, that yes, that in autumn we will have these competitive times in Galicia, committed by the minister and the president of ADIF in autumn. That's why we will work and, of course, what I see is resignation and silence by the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Government of Spain. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u208	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other MPs, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the development of a strategic action plan aimed at attracting part of the Next Generation funds for the reactivation and impulse of the Galician culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u209	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Compasses Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u210	Congratulations, President. The Barometer of the Greek culture I, the Statistical Set of the Cultural Area, published by the Galeg Culture Observatory last 2020, together with the Barometer of the Greek culture II, recently presented, depict the state of the Greek agents and cultural sectors since the beginning of the pandemic. The conclusions which have already been found by the observers in the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation held in this Parliament at the end of last year. The problems of the cultural sectors have been multiple, continuous and diverse since the beginning of the pandemic due to the cessation of activity originally derived from confinement and then continued by new total or partial closures. With mobility restricted by perimeter closures, to which it is necessary to add the continuous restriction of the spare capacity -- often valued as arbitrary -- and the increase in costs to meet the safety and hygiene of the covered protocols. A paralysis that has multiplied the negative impact already inherited from a precarious context not yet surpassed in a present where uncertainties, because of the epidemiological context by coward, reinforce questions every day, making any alternative and hopeful proposal impossible in the short and medium term. The creation, management, production, cultural dynamization, represents figures of loss that we must put at the point of view of the severe consequences of the pandemic at the same level as any other productive, economic and employment-generating sector that the sequence of the different epidemiological waves has helped to increase for a year now. Ended with the year 2020, the time of action of the insufficient -- in our view -- Plan of reactivating the cultural and tourist sectors, we do not know, about the end of this first quarter of 2021, which is the extraordinary investments that the Government will devote to the Greek culture from the so-called European funds. The Next Generation Galicia file, delivered by the Government to the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation, does not express a project itself directed at the reactivation and impulse of the Greek cultural sectors, because it only mentions an inconcreted editorial reference to the following points on axis 3 -- by the way, with missing spelling included and figures that do not match the accounts -- : "Streatism of digitization of the Greek cultural content and products, development of creative channels and cultural diffusion with attention to new creators and emerging formats, in addition to a program of sustainable heritage goods," that's what that document says. For all this, since the BNG we have asked the following question to answer in this plenary: have the Government held working meetings with representatives of the Greek cultural sectors to establish a strategic plan of action aimed at attracting part of these Next Generation funds for the reactivation and impulse of the Greek culture?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u212	Well, thank you very much, Mr President and Madam. The truth is I agree with you in the diagnosis of the situation in the cultural sector. There is no doubt that the current pandemic crisis has strongly impacted on a sector like culture and that, of course, it is also true that this sector has a great ability to adapt to the current situation and that it has a great capacity to reinvent itself, to continue to develop its action in formats and in different ways. You yourself have also quoted a series of documents from the Observatory of Culture, from the Galeg Culture Council, where I also had an opportunity to see it, and there is an interesting act, which I think is significant, and it is that when you talk about the different valuations of the administrations and ask the creators, the world of culture, that Administration has better responded to the needs and shortcomings of the cultural sector, the first, in the best position, is the Autonomic Administration, far above the councils and far above the state too. But, well, what you're telling us, I think it's something we need to take into account. We have a major scenario in which we have to work to reactivate the sector, there's no doubt about it. We have firm values, for example, an budget that increases 27 % over the previous year. We have a hope, because we're entering a Xacobea decade, with all that it means to the cultural sector. And we also have European funds on the table, which you obviously quote. I am sure that when I know the European funds in detail, it will, if not satisfied, be so moderately optimistic about the work done with regard to the orientation that these funds have to reactivate cultural action. And we've also known for some time the projects that the Galego Nationalist Block has created, one of them curiously is almost identical to one that we've been developing since the Galician Union, which has to do with the audiovisual hub, where we invest about 10 million euros in an absolutely coordinated, consensual, dialogueal and organized way with the sector where we want to do this is to encourage creation, improve competitiveness, create economic growth, create jobs; finally, give an overview in this case to the audiovisual world, to the audiovisual cultural industry so that it can be a sustainable sector with the ability to create jobs and with the ability to disseminate the cultural potential of our country. Obviously, we have an ejacism -- which I suppose you'll share with me -- and we don't know exactly what the state is going to do; there's not a single criterion on the part of the state as to how the European funds will be organized, divided or structured. I'd ask him to help us ask the Socialist Party to tell us how they're going to structure, how they're going to share the funds. We know that the FEMP met with the Minister and it seems that there is a request to share funds through the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u214	But we don't know anything else. We ask for transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u216	...and we ask him for help to help us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u218	...to ask the Socialist Party what they want to do or what they'll do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u219	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Time's up. Thank you very much. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Queixas Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u220	Thank you. The competences in the field of culture are exclusive to the council, this councillor, Counsellor. And it should also be said that this information of this second barometer, the valuation of the labor sector of this council is quite inferior to what you expressed in the previous barometer of last June. I think that's quite a significant data, its valuation is absolutely inferior. As always, its headlines multiply by zero the actions on the reactivation and impulse of workers and cultural workers -- this is the big problem --. His announcements continue to be inconcreted, and above all, apart from dialogue and consensus with the cultural sectors, building new pages of a cheating project. His cultural proposal is dissimulatedly circumstantial and marginal, his bet on culture as a right of all society is null. They've been acting against culture for eleven years because they perceive it as a hostile sector because of their critical capacity. Their spotlights and tachygraphs all this time inform many grandiose meetings with the economic sectors, but for the cultural sectors, shadows and invisible silences. Or maybe they're part of that confidential silence -- as they say sometimes -- which justifies the actual lack of initiatives. Nothing is known at this point of a new plan of cultural reactivation, so necessary and focused on truly predictable culture of what impulse can be. At this point, nothing is known of the fate of these multi-announcers, indeed, EUR 9.6 million who are budgeted to Agadic within the Council of Culture and who remain unimplemented in any project. Your mini-document for Next Generation funds -- previously referred to -- just pick up the word "culture," twice on page 11. You are missing ideas, by the way, you can take multiple notes in Gallica Next! Generate Future, developed by BNG counting on sectors -- here if -- and where culture occupies its own space, as well as integrated -- as it should be -- in different projects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u221	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u222	Understanding culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u224	...as an engine of social and economic development.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u225	Thank you very much. Your time is up. For the Government's reply, Mr. Rodríguez González has the floor of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u226	Thank you very much, Madam. If it's true what you say, that the autonomous community has the exclusive competences in the field of culture, I don't know what the municipalities do by programming culture, or I don't know what the president of the mayors of Spain of the Socialist Party does -- his partner -- meeting with the minister and telling him: no, no, the European funds don't pass them -- because they certainly spoke in Spanish -- to whom he has the competences, let me know that they manage them well. A little coherence, Mrs. Complaints. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And, look, from the barometer you can say what you want, but the administration best rated by cultural creators...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u227	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u228	...it's the Cunta de Galicia. And you manage many municipalities and you manage many deputies, but I think you have a little problem, and clearly I mean, you think culture is just yours, you have a monotheistic view of culture; there's only one culture, a good culture that's mine, you think so. That's why I'm surprised you say you don't talk to the cultural sectors. The audiovisual hub, there have been 16 meetings since it started until today; it's a three-year project, 16 meetings. Well, there could be more, but don't tell me there's no dialogue, because from the perspective of audiovisual aid, an integrative project that responds to the needs of a sector to boost its competitiveness and its ability to generate wealth, cultural wealth of course and economic wealth, of course, because of culture there are 30,000 people, about, and they have to generate economic activity. There's no doubt about that, with which I think many of your questions are lost, if you just lose in the monotheistic vision that you have of culture. And for us, no doubt, they'll check very soon, very close to it, you'll see how the recovery, the prospect of recovery and the cultural perspective on the part of the Galician Union is structured. We think that we need to take into account the wealth of our past, projected in the present and in the future according to current conditions, but that behind us we have to have a productive sector where it gives possibilities, that creatives have the ability to push projects. And I think there are strategic aspects: sustainability, cohesion, digitization, etc. And you can be absolutely sure that the duties are done. We think we're gonna make a good note, maybe you're gonna make it bad, but what I'm sure is that the Greeks, the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u230	...and the world of culture will give us a note...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u231	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u232	...at least acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u233	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Noa Susana Díaz Varela and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia on the implementation of the I plan of equality of the General Administration of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u234	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u235	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, President; thank you, Counselor, for your presence. On April 25, 2017, almost four years ago, the Socialist Group submitted to the House plenary debate a non-legislative proposal to call for the urgent launch of the I Plan of Equality of the General Administration of Galicia. The initiative obviously did not reach the support of the Government group, which, of course, was not willing to draw up a report which made it clear that nothing had been done so far in that matter. On 4 July 2017, the Interdepartmental Commission on Equality agreed to draw up the I Plan for Equality of the General Administration of Galicia. At that point, yes. The question is that already on 8 March 2018, half a year later, Mr. President of the Board, Mr. Feijóo, announced the "in imminent" approval of the I plan of equality of the Greek administration. Of course, almost three years later we went on without understanding the concept of the forthcoming Greek Government, considering that at this point -- I repeat, almost four years later -- the equality plan is still not effective. What needs to be remembered here is that this plan, that equality plan, is mandatory since 3 May 2007 with Law 2/2007 of 28 March 2007 on women's equal work in Galicia, which in its Article 11 of the Voluntary and Compulsory Equality Plans said: Equality plans will be compulsory for the Self-Government and its autonomous bodies, public societies, the foundations of the autonomous public sector, etc. Of course, that same article remained as in that law in Legislative Decree 2/2015, so the recast text of the legal provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality is approved. We have therefore been counsellor for nearly 13 years, 13 years waiting for a measure, for this equality plan to achieve the goals, as I say, of equality between women and men and the elimination of gender discrimination in the Greek Public Administration. It's a certain delay that strikes in front of the good intentions that the German Government expresses before the media and also in this very Parliamentary House day yes, day too. Because it's not to be welcomed that thousands of self-government workers still do not have their own equality plan, as the law sets out. So because of the emergency we understand it deserves this matter, this parliamentary group asks you, Counsellor: How much longer does the Government of Greece think to delay the implementation of the I Plan of Equality of the General Administration of Galicia? Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u237	Thank you, President; thank you, Mrs. Díaz. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, I think it is clear that one of the commitments of the Government of Galicia is precisely to fight for gender equality and equal opportunities and, of course, these measures cover the public administration of the autonomous community. We're working, we're starting with the I.E. Plan of Equality of the General Administration of Galicia, we're working on this plan with all the trade union organizations present at the general table of public employees, and we're meeting at the diagnosis stage of the plan. It is a diagnosis of the plan that has had certain changes to adapt to the approval of the two real state decrees, Royal Decree 901 of the year 2020 and Royal Decree 902 of the same year, which regulate the equality plans, as you know, and also the record of equal pay between men and women. But I think that the important thing, in addition to being working on the equality plan of Galicia, is to take into account the content of an equality plan. An equality plan must make a diagnosis of equality in the company, in this case of the general administration of the autonomous community and the correction measures. And, above all, in certain very specific areas, which are women's underrepresentation, the process of selection and recruitment, training, wages, working conditions, co-responsibility and reconciliation and prevention of sexual harassment. Well, more than half of Galician public employees are women, 71.4 percent of the staff. Article 48 of Legislative Decree 2/2015 on equality provides that, in the case of female underrepresentation in public employment supply, it will determine that, if there are equal merits between two or more candidates, women will be admitted. The principles of equality, merit and capacity are fully applied in the selective processes of provision of vocational promotion posts. In the field of training, 40 editions of 19 specific equality courses were developed or developed in 2020 in the EGAP formative activities programme, as well as 5 courses in which the equality module was included. As far as the pay record is concerned, you are well aware of the Galician Budgets Act, which publishes the self-employed staff's pay tables and, of course, takes into account only the staff group, as well as the complements, trieniums and other pay concepts. As for the corresponding exercise of rights and of the personal, family and labour life of the autonomous community, we have the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, as well as the field of teleworking, the teleworking agreement, adopted on 13 November 2020 between the Union and the Glaga Inter-union Confederation, as well as a wide range of permits and also a flexible day within the autonomous administration. And finally, we have a protocol for the prevention, detection, action and resolution of situations of harassment at work and other discrimination at work in the Autonomous Administration of Galicia. I mean, and I'm done already, that I think we're showing the firm commitment to continue working on the promotion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u239	...of equality conditions for all public employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u240	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u241	Yes, thank you. Thank you for your answer, Counselor. We're glad they're already working, as they say, even though we think they're late, welcome will be that equality plan, but we ask you for some speed. Funny thing is that you tell us about the importance of drawing up diagnoses, when it is precisely one of the greatest deficiencies of this government, the lack of diagnosis for absolutely everything and the proliferation of sun and will offerings, and announcing commitments but then they don't materialize at all, right? I don't know what kind of exemplaryness you want to give as a government if I'm not able to draw up a plan or have already drawn up -- it's 13 years -- a plan that guarantees equality between your own staff. And don't tell us, as you just said, that the Greek administration has a huge amount of tools to guarantee that equality, because the same argument could give us any company that violates that legal requirement. Because yes, the fact is that you fill the pages of your agendas with meetings with various business entities in which you address and support measures for the equal work of women and men, they also offer these companies technological tools so that they can even be self-diagnosed in equality, and they talk about reconciliation, of co-responsibility and of these, of conciliation and of co-responsibility as priorities of the Greek Government. [[Applause]] And to us -- excuse us -- give us the laugh; give us the laugh. And I imagine all the employees of the Galician Union will also be killed with laughter. You yourself chaired the Interdepartmental Equality Commission a month and a half ago, which, let's remember, is the body that works to integrate the gender perspective into all the policies and actions of the Union, but at the same time did not include this plan on the agenda, unless you think you can replace that plan with the Strategic Plan of Galicia that you just mentioned for equal opportunities between men and women. What we ask of you is that you stop toasting to the sun and get to work now. Don't come to us with speeches of always that in this matter we are the best, because, with all due respect, being the best is always paired up. And they'll agree with me that this isn't the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u243	Thank you, President. I can't match you, Your Honor. You're talking about any company apparently counting on the same instruments that a public administration has in the field of equality. This is radically false. A public administration has budgets approved by law, and you know it better than anyone. Budgets where he distributes, of course, wages, as he said, between workers and workers without power at any time establish any kind of wage gap. You tell me that any company has a public employment legislation where all public employees' rights are collected in this case. You tell me that any company has a flexible, legally approved day. You tell me that all companies have a teleworking agreement signed in this case with the Gaga Inter-union Confederation. That's not how it is. So on the basis that, in fact, the Equality Plan has to be approved and, as I say to you, we are in the diagnosis phase, we are diagnosed that we have to adapt to the new legislative instruments that the Central Government has just approved, this does not have to do with the fact that the Equality Plan regulates a number of issues, a number of issues that have to be diagnosed, that have to be audited, and that, if so, a number of corrective measures have to be established. So I understand that what you are concerned about as opposition is that the Government actually has these corrective measures in its administration and has guaranteed the principle of equality between employees and public employees. And what I'm telling you here is that's how it is. It is true that the autonomous public administration has established in each and every one of the concepts that are legislated in relation to the equality plan measures that effectively guarantee equality between men and women. Moreover, it has established measures that in certain areas, such as teleworking or the measures set out in the 2018 Conciliation Plan, which are pioneers and are superior to those established in other public administrations and, of course, in most companies and, of course, in companies that do not have an equal plan. That's why I'm telling you that all the work we're doing is actually to approve, on the one hand, the Equality Plan of the Galician Union, but on the other hand, to ensure throughout all this processing time that all and every one of the elements that you have to have from the bottom point of view and the content of the Equality Plan in the General Administration of the Galician Union. Nothing else on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u244	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in relation to the effects of the pandemic on the labour market in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u245	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u246	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In statements collected on the official website of the Galician Union, the Director General for Training and Placement, made a highly positive assessment of the unemployment data recorded in Galicia in January 2021, despite the fact that in an annual way the loss of annual membership in our community was 18,229 people and that in structural terms women still represent no less than 56.6% of the total unemployment, affecting a total of 105,305 women compared to 80,679 men. It considers this parliamentary group that, when you want to talk about employment with rigour, you have to look at the evolution of membership and unemployment. Forgetting one of the two variables is doing demagogy and with the pandemic it's not decent, Counselor. You know that one of the most complex employment situations happens when you lower your membership and lower your registered unemployment. This circumstance is an anomaly that has occurred about eight times since 2004, with no loss of more than 6,000 people. The reality, Counsellor, is that the year 2020 ended with a lower volume of employment than before the previous economic crisis in 2008, with 15,000 less people working and with an anomalous situation that only occurs in Galicia; 3.200 unemployed and unemployed less results from a drop in the active population of 18,200 people, mostly aged between 16 and 44. This is an exodus of working-age people who have abandoned the German labour market in the face of lack of job expectations. Even though unemployment is reduced, the weight of long-term unemployment knows it's getting bigger and bigger. As a result, there are 1,200 homes more than a year ago where no income comes in, a total of 31,300. And we have to remember, of course, that within the occupation data workers and workers in ERTE are included, more than 32,000 in Galicia. The difference in the 2009 crisis resulted in these mechanisms preventing the fall of activity from immediately leading to job destruction. This extension allowed the State Government to invest in Galicia EUR 1,360 million. The question that we are asking is, what do you intend to adopt the Galician Union in relation to the trend towards the inactivity of the Greek labour market, aggravated by the health and economic crisis caused by the cowardly-19? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u248	Thank you, President; thank you, Madam. Before I begin to answer the question, I would like to nuance some of the data and statements that are made, always nudging, as we do, I think, the Government and the Director General themselves, the prudence in interpreting the data of unemployment in this situation of economic and labor weakness. But it's just that you're affecting the increase in in inactivity and I also think it is necessary to contextualize and underline that Galicia reflects a lower rate of fall of busy than the state's whole. And in addition to quarterly and annual growth in the occupations over 45 years of age, particularly vulnerable collective. You provide data on the timeliness of contracts and indicate that in the annual variation that is where these weaknesses of the Welsh labour market are shown, but in Galicia, despite the cover, unemployment has just decreased in quarterly and annual and close 2020 with more indefinite employment than in 2019, in particular the number of people with indefinite contracts is increased by 5,900 people more than in the previous year; and the temporary recruitment in Galicia is down by 7.6%. You're also talking about the difficult situation that the yellow homes are living with all their members active in unemployment, which, of course, are one of our main concerns, but you forget to mention that they increased by 1,800 the number of homes with all their active members occupied. That is to say, in short, I think it is undeniable that the effects of the vault are being seen, are directly affecting the labour market, but that Galicia has shut down 2020 with more defined employment and with a more positive overall evolution than the national average. The challenge of the Government of Greece, the Government of Greece, what we want is to maintain as many businesses as possible, as many jobs as possible and, of course, to promote new work opportunities. How are we doing? On the one hand, with direct, automatic, simple plans, rescue plans for self-employed and micro-enterprises. We've already invested 160 million euros in four months to serve more than 70,000 aids in total, as I say, direct, real to business. We have already taken out of the second plan 10 million euros of the 75 that are; and we are still waiting to know how much will correspond to the 5 billion euros that the state is going to distribute to autonomous peninsula communities. We're still working with the new funds to create a new virtual training class in the autonomous community. A new employment service, EUR 6 million in that budget to bid for this new employment service. And we continue with programmes that already worked, for self-employment, 8 million euros; support for recruitment of people in the company would ordinary in municipalities in non-profit entities, more than 40 million euros. And, of course, with measures relating to women's employment, the Emega programme, which they already know, and aid intended directly for women's self-employment and also for the benefit of the social economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's action is, of course, aimed at measures to dynamize the labour market which, on the one hand, affect companies' immediate liquidity to maintain employment and maintain programs that already worked and worked well and to create new programs and scan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u250	...the employment service and digitize the formation of the autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u251	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u252	Thank you. I didn't think at any time, Counselor, that I was going to subscribe to the general manager's money given the labour market situation, because if we analyze data by sector, there is also a strong contraction in employment in homogenous terms, inter-annually in the services of 10,900 employed less than in the same quarter of 2019. It also falls in the industry by 9,100, 5% of its fall. This is the data. The vast majority of those expelled from the labour market, again, are women with a temporary contract once again, badly injured in this pandemic. The Greek labour market expels 17,500 people with temporary contracts and in the face of a crisis, the temporary employment we're talking about is the first one who is expelled and with force and the woman who is most affected. The disprotection of workers is obvious. In view of this data, we see with concern the inaction of the Employment Council in relation to the overwhelming means that should be adopted, drawing up late, ill and the trace of orders to help self-employed people and pemes for a total of 140 million euros, still not executed. It will be the state that once again injects Galicia, which you spoke of as not knowing the figures, it is estimated at 220 million in direct aid to self-government and pemes groups. In addition, we will receive 30 per cent more funds for employment policies, derived from the Ministry of Employment and Education and Vocational Training. The year 2020 was already around 130 million, with which, by calculating, we will receive another 39. But, in any case, the management of the board has to become involved in active employment policies, in policies for the training of workers and workers, both unemployed and busy. We are also concerned about the budget execution, Counsellor, because over the past four years they have been left without spending on employment policies of an average of EUR 127.8 million. And on the other hand, the Tourin Government has budgeted 430 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u254	...to encourage the recruitment of 20,000 workers. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. For the Government's reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u255	Thank you, President. You say the rescue plans of the Galician Union are 140; no, 160 million euros are available and they say they're not running. The first rescue plan is fully implemented; the second rescue plan has just told you that 10 million euros of the 75s are already executed and the request deadline is over this Tuesday. If that's not running the background... They say they're going to have to blow up rescue plans with direct state aid, which is 220 million euros. Look, Your Honor, if we take into account the number of autonomous and micro-enterprises in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, at least we would have to receive EUR 340 million. The criteria set out in Royal Decree 5 for the distribution of these EUR 5 billion are among others related to the increase in youth unemployment, which you will tell me what to do with support for microenterprises or self-employed people. It gives the feeling that the money was first distributed and then the criteria were established. You're talking about 30 percent more finalist funds for employment and training, thank you for telling me, because I don't know, I still haven't had a sectoral conference either in terms of work, or in terms of education where I'm told the funds that are going to be shared. And since the two ministries have a letter from the President of the Council of Galicia stating precisely that if we are told how many finalist funds the Autonomous Community of Galicia is going to receive for employment and training, and that the sectoral conference is immediately called to distribute them. We're practically in April, you're going to tell me how it's possible that the Employment Council, this or any other autonomous community, can start to work on measures with this increase in finalist funds if we don't even know when they're coming to autonomous communities. You speak of low-fund execution; we were the second autonomous community with better execution of the state's finalist funds in the previous exercise. Is this low-fund execution? We run almost 80 percent of the funds year after year in Mr Feijóo's Government. So I don't understand exactly what the low-fund execution is. Finally, I do not know the measures we are developing with the money we have in the autonomous community are measures, as I say, to rescue the self-employed and rescue companies because it does not come from state liquidity and we are, of course, maintaining all of the programs for entrepreneurship, support and recruitment in ordinary companies and also in the municipalities. We are also implementing training measures that are essential. For that reason, we are betting on continuing training, as the European Union advises the workers, both the unemployed and the unemployed, and for that reason we are going to launch this new virtual classroom in the autonomous community. As I tell you, we believe that we are meeting the funds exclusively that we have at our disposal more than we expect from the Government and self-government in terms of employment and equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-24-DSPG030.u256	Thank you very much, Counselor. When the agenda points are finished, we finish the session.
