ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified their absence and made a delegation of votes, in this case, Ms. María Monserrat Prado Cores, who delegated her vote to Mrs. Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo; and Mr. Rubén Lorenzo Gómez, who delegated to Mr. Pedro Puy. And we're on the agenda, with a single point. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u2	The outline of the debate will be a presentation of the dictatorship; then a group first, which is the debate of the articulated, in which there is a round of parliamentary groups for a time of fifteen minutes to stand on the dictate of the commission and a time of five minutes to be defined on the amendments maintained by the others. This is about the group first. The second group will be a joint debate on expenditure statements, in which each parliamentary group will have a time of thirty minutes for the committee's ruling and also a time of ten minutes to define itself on amendments. The amendments that are kept for the full are the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and those of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. So we start with the presentation of the commission's dictatorship, and for that we have the floor of the president of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u3	Good morning to all and to all. I am presenting Ditome on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2021. The bill was entered into Parliament's register on 23 November 2020. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 23 November 2020, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 14 December 2020, and the parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist and Socialists of Galicia formulated amendments to the overall return of general budgets and to the budgets of the sections, as well as non-refundive amendments that transferred credits between applications of different sections or that modified the total content of income and expenditure states. All amendments were discarded at the plenary session on 21 December 2020. The partial amendments, detailed below, were qualified on 28 December 2020. With regard to amendments to the articulation, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia there are three amendments; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, 38 amendments; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 72 amendments -- which makes a total of 113 --. With regard to amendments to the numerical states, there are 19 amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia; 505 amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia; and 568 amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia -- which make a total of 1,092 --. In total, 22 amendments were tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group; by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 543 amendments; and by the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists, 640 amendments -- which make a total of 1,205 amendments --. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 30 December 2020, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the Parliamentary Group of the Peoples of Galicia, as holder, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga, as alternate Dona Cristina Sanz Arias; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, as owner of Noa Presas Bergantiños, as alternate Dona Olalla Rodil Fernández; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as holder, and Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera as alternate. The session was held on 4 January 2021, and the report containing the recommendations made to the Commission was completed, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. It also recommended the adoption of paragraphs 19, 25, 29, 30 and 59 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, a transactional amendment drawn up with Amendment No 2 of this parliamentary group and a transactional amendment drawn up with Amendment No 32 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. With regard to the remaining amendments, the motion, by the majority, recommended that the Commission reject the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. The amendments to the expenditure statements submitted by this group were pending for the Commission. The Commission, meeting on 13 and 14 and 15 December 2021, adopted by a majority the report issued by the motion and rejected those submitted to the states of expenditure by the opposition parliamentary groups. The number of amendments kept for the full is as follows: by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego 37 amendments are kept to the articulated, 505 amendments to the numerical states -- a total of 542 -- ; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 62 amendments to the articulated and 568 amendments to the numerical states -- therefore, 634 amendments are kept --. This makes a total of amendments to the articulated 103, and 1,073 amendments to the numerical states; in total, between the two, 1,176. So there are processing pendings for this full 1,176 amendments. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a numerical state consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The total consolidated budget is 13,396,505,623. The articulated text consists of a explanatory statement followed by 62 articles grouped into 6 titles, 16 additional provisions, 3 transitional provisions, 3 final provisions and 7 annexes. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the modification of appropriations regime. Title II regulates staff costs. Title III shall be the one referred to in respect of obliging transactions and guarantees. Title IV regulates budgetary management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations. And Title VI refers to tax rules, which include a single precept in relation to the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and the wind canon, since most of the tax regulation is contained in the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which will be dealt with in the next plenary session. Finally, the deadline for the vigil of future law is determined, as well as the date of its entry into force. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Debate on the articulate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u5	We began with the turn of the parliamentary groups to explain their position on the dictates of the committee. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning and welcome, Counselor. Today, the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2021 will be approved in this Parliament, the most important budgets of the last few years, which grow by 13.3%, i.e. 1,575 million euros more to develop public policies in Galicia, thanks mainly to the funds of the state and the funds of the European Union. These are some budgets that should be up to the most serious situation since the Civil War. However, the German Government, the Galician Union, presents, for its approval in this House, budgets that do not respond to the health, economic and social crises that we are suffering from. It is a number of budgets in which the solutions of the People's Party in the Galician Union are reduced, in this pandemic situation, to provide with more practical resources all the games and programmes already existing in previous years, when in the last five exercises we found ourselves in contexts of economic growth. I mean, Feijóo's PP applies the same recipes to a completely different reality. That's why the budgets of the Cunta de Galicia de Nuñez Feijóo for 2021 are ineffective budgets. They're ineffective because they don't respond to health needs, they're ineffective because they don't respond to economic needs and they're ineffective because they don't respond to the social needs of our citizenry at times when, without the clear, efficient and agile bet of public administrations, many people are at risk of staying behind. The Greek Government has brought a draft budget with which it announced the search for consensus and the tending hand, but the reality is that socialists present a total of 640 amendments to the states of expenditure and to the articulate of this law, apart from the cross-sectional amendment, the amendment to the whole and the amendments to the sections. And the result is that the People's Party Parliamentary Group, the majority group in this House, with its knee voted against 570 amendments tabled by this parliamentary group to the states of expenditure. And they voted in favour of five amendments and one deal to the articulate -- of the 72 tabled by this parliamentary group --. In other words, the Group of the People's Party voted in favour of 0.9% of all the amendments tabled by the PSdeG-PSOE in this House. [[Applause]] And they did not address this parliamentary group at any time to try to consensualize something of this project beyond the usual procedure that is done with any other legislative text, a reality which dismisses the story of Mr Feijóo when he talks about hand-held budgets. Therefore, Counsellor, Members and Members of the People's Party, the truth is that we are going back to the beginning. Year after year we returned to the beginning, at the same time as two months ago when the budget project entered into this German Parliament and you had already made it clear that they would approve it without taking into account the arrivals of the opposition groups and once again overlooking the plurality of this House and the plurality of Greek society as a whole. You don't understand that the amendments presented by the socialists also show our commitment to Galicia, to our territory, to our people and to our diversity. The truth is, yesterday, as I was preparing this speech and looking at the press, I felt a little uneasy about the news that came out in the newspapers. In La Voz de Galicia: "The Sergas transfers patients between hospitals to prevent the medical pressure from overflowing them. Those who enter Galicia already exceed the thousand, although the contagions fall." In Faro de Vigo: "The shot hospital pressure leads to extreme restrictions in Galicia." [[Murmurs.]] In Faro de Vigo: "Pandemia and demographic decline leave young people employed in Galicia at least". In El Correo Gallego: "The crisis threatens to extinguish 3,000 more businesses in Galicia." In Faro de Vigo: "The pandemic left in Galicia about 60,000 more people in poverty." I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, can you really say that with these budgets the Greek Government uses all resources at its disposal to minimize the terrible consequences of this pandemic? Are these budgets going to fight poverty in which 22.6% of the population in Galicia is located, according to the data published yesterday in Oxfam Intermón's last annual inequality report, which reveals to us that more than 612,000 people in Galicia lived below the poverty line at the end of 2020 and that they also assumed 10.8% more than at the beginning of 2020? [[Applause]] Will these budgets be used to accommodate the 32,700 homes in Greece that lived without income, according to the EPA data of the third quarter of 2020, and that are 13,000 more since Feijóo is president of the Galician Union? Look, during these 11 years of Feijóo's term of office, the situation of these people was not a priority for the Greek Government. It is one of the great failures of the People's Party Government and Mr. Feijóo in Galician Union. And now the accounts are increased by 1,575 million euros. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party: with these EUR 1,575 million, will you stop normalizing this situation and put the resources needed to make a more equal, more redistributive society and work to get these people in Galicia out of that situation of poverty or social exclusion in which they are found and that they can be incorporated into the labour market and society in general? I'll ask them. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party -- they also tell me -- these budgets are going to be useful in order to reverse the demographic indentation that our country has had for over a decade, when we lose over 96,000 inhabitants and have a population pyramid where under 20 years of age represent 15.81% of the population? In other words, nearly 16 out of 100 people in our country are under 20 years old, while 25.47 -- nearly 26 people -- out of 100 in our country are over 64 years old, and we're still the autonomous community that presents the worst vegetable balance in all autonomous communities. You bring some budgets that are going to be approved today, and they're going to approve them without the youth being at the heart of their public policies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, without youth a country has no future. And today, young Greeks and Greeks know that future opportunities in their country are less than they need to be able to develop their capabilities, their training and their vital project. They know that in order to stay on their land, they need a government that is committed to stable and quality employment, that has a policy of access to housing in affordable property or rent, that implements real reconciliation policies with child-friendly schools and affordable day centres and near places of residence. In the meantime, we see how in these budgets the provision of youth policy games is one of the few games that dwindle, Counsellor. The housing policy was forgotten for eleven years of government of Núñez Feijóo in the Galician Union, which is now being rectified in these budgets thanks to the finalist funds coming from the state. The construction of children's schools in industrial polygons is another of the promises that President Feijóo has not fulfilled. And during his governments, not a single public residence square was built for seniors in our country. That's the reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, these should also be some budgets that would enable territorial rebalancing in Galicia, although the reality is that in this budget they lower the allocation of shares to set rural population at EUR 9 million; and in modernization and diversification of the productive tissue, at EUR 2.3 million. This is the real wager of the Galician Union for the Greek countryside and for its population settlement, another of the tales of Feijóo, which announced a rural legislation when the reality was that this last legislation was the legislating of the rural softness. Little by little, Counsellor, who establish tax benefits for the acquisition of housing or for the establishment of business initiatives in less populated areas, because, if public services are not maintained, if road communications are not improved, without broadband coverage throughout the territory, if productive sectors are not enhanced, younger people have to go to other places where they offer real opportunities to develop their vital project. These are also not budgets that reflect the necessary support for sectors that are most affected by restrictions -- namely, housing, commerce, leisure, culture, self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises --. We are in the third wave, and yesterday even the President of the Galician Council announced more restrictive measures that will further increase the problems for these sectors. But we think that these accounts are not enough to prevent the closure of many of these establishments, which they need, in addition to the ERTE and the aid for cessation of activity coming from the state, direct aid from the Government of Greece in order to overcome these restrictions. We socialists believe that these accounts are not enough and are not designed to meet the challenges of the present and the immediate future. This should be the time to lay the foundations for the shift from the productive model to a more coherent, greener and more feminist country; to bet on an economy of knowledge that fosters education, training and research, and strengthens the state of well-being; to ensure constant support for families, workers, self-employed people and businesses; and to channel European funds to move forward towards a more valued added economy, more digital and based on the energy transition. So we have the German Government presenting us with ineffective health accounts, a fundamental public service that loses relative weight within the budget by 2021. And as far as primary care is concerned, it increases by 44% less than the total increase in accounts. Government Feijóo, with an additional EUR 1,575 million, does not provide Greek public health with the necessary accounts to recover from the precariousness suffered during these eleven years. It is ineffective because these accounts do not consolidate sufficient, stable and quality employment, which needs public health in Galicia. It is ineffective because these accounts do not guarantee the coverage of fundamental services such as those of pediatrics and primary care in health centres -- especially those in rural areas --. Nor do they serve to improve health infrastructures or the construction where they are insufficient, as well as the necessary increase in hospital beds. And it's also insufficient because it doesn't provide enough new health needs arising from the cod. Nor does it bet on a model that meets in terms of quality mental health, oral health, drug addictions, ludopathies and specific health services for women. If something has taught us this pandemic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, health is the most important thing. And therefore public, universal, free and quality health should be an undeniable goal for this Government. [[Applause]] The Greek Government also presents an ineffective budget for education, another fundamental public service that also loses relative weight on these accounts by 2021, in which education increases half as much as the increase in the budget as a whole. Government Feijóo, with an additional EUR 1,575 million, does not provide public education in Wales with sufficient funds to reverse the cuts suffered during these eleven years. These are some accounts that do not guarantee the consolidation of sufficient, stable and quality employment in Welsh education, some accounts that do not come up with the necessary accounts to improve infrastructure in most schools, which do not guarantee the proper provision of the school dining service. They're ineffective because they don't guarantee that all Welsh children, regardless of their families' income, can count on computer equipment that allows them to have equal education. And they also don't bet on ensuring broadband networks to most of the population by breaking up once and for all with the inequality that exists according to where they live. Nor are there any accounts that use sufficient resources to prevent school dropout or equal access to the student who wants to join the university.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u8	And they also have a lack of clear betting for university R & D. Socialists also believe that the public, free and quality education bet should be another of the priorities of the Government of Galician Union in these expansion accounts. The German Government of the People's Party also presents ineffective accounts in social policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u10	I'm done, Mr. President. The precarious situation in Galicia in the residential and day centers, both of the elderly and for the disabled, showed its toughest side in the development of this pandemic, showing that during eleven years of government Feijóo in the Junta de Galicia there were zero squares built in public residences in Galicia, a deficit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u11	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u12	...inspection in the centers, which had major deficiencies, a precariousness of professionals, mainly in women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Please look at the watch!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u14	...who are the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u15	Thank you, thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, today it ends the budgeting project for the year 2021, and during these weeks and months of work since the Galician Nationalist Block we have made an attempt to move over the various days a reflection that we understand is mandatory in an absolutely unpublished context, that the world lives and that Galicia also lives. And it is that an exceptional situation, from our point of view, also requires exceptional measures, a response that is also exceptional and that is within the context of circumstances. And today we're sure 2021 won't be an easy year. Today we can see that leaving behind 2020 did not mean "new year, new life". Today we see with despair how the pandemic is out of control, we see with despair how it advances at a rate that is inscrutable. And today we're all also concerned -- or we should -- about our public health situation, about our hospital saturation, about whether our health care staff is going to have at some point to choose who they care and who they don't care about. We're also concerned about the economic situation of self-employed people, small and medium-sized enterprises that close again or restrict their activity without recovering. Today we're almost playing March with our fingers, we're seeing how we're going to do almost a year's pandemic and we haven't been able to leave it behind. And, more importantly, we're seeing how in this we call "third wave" not many of the mistakes that were detected in earlier times. Therefore, in this context of exceptionality, since the Galego Nationalist Block, we can only convey our disappointment with this project. We understand that you are not aware of the circumstances that this country has at the moment and that it is a mistake more of those that have not been corrected in the course of these months. Because these budgets, if anything they're not, are exceptional. The only thing they have of exceptional is certain income forecasts by the state and by the European level. But as far as political decisions are concerned, spending priorities and political forecasts for this 2021 are more than those of the last 12 years of Nuñez Feijóo. So we understand that in these budgets there are no keys that respond to this unprecedented situation, that they are a shape error and that they are also an error in the background. I am, in this context, a fugitive forward. And it's not that they're no longer a missed opportunity as they seemed to us at the beginning of their processing, that they're already a step further in the irresponsibility of the People's Party Government. Because we understand that the worst attitude a government can have in a crisis of these circumstances is to be irresponsible with this attitude that they are having pride and lack of dialogue. Sovereignty and lack of dialogue is the worst thing a government can have in any context; but in this, even more. And the truth is that it looks like this budget processing a little bit to the precaution of what the People's Party has decided to do along the legislation, which is not to listen to anyone around, not to take any own mistake and not to consent to the slightest proposal. In fact, the People's Party has most, you can afford to do that, but of course we're not going to stop saying it's a mistake and they're in time to fix it. We're not gonna stop saying they're wrong. And one more proof of that mistake is this articulation that we are discussing at this point on the agenda. We always say that the articulate comes to be the backbone of budget planning, we could also say that it's the instruction manual for which the German Government is going to register in the coming months. And, of course, we understand that it is not what this country needs, that the measures in the state of expenditure that will then be discussed are not the measures we understand from the BNG that must be taken. In any case, that letter can be changed over the next few months. The Greek Government has us very accustomed to budgeting one thing and then doing another, but of course, there are issues that go into this articulate that are key, that cannot be changed over the months and that, if they are approved today without any further change, it will of course be bad news for this country. Because we understand that this articulate collects basically how things will develop over the next few months. And if the state of expenditure practically ignores that we are in an unprecedented pandemic, because of course the articulate is already a direct journey in time to the past, it is an absolute image of what the People's Party has developed over the past 12 years. And we understand that this is not the case at this time of history. It's not what it is because once again it assumes without any kind of cutbacks or the least questioning a state framework of restrictions that, although it is slightly flexed by the circumstances we live in, we understand from the Galician Nationalist Block that is insufficient and that continues to harm our country. Once again this articulation confirms that the German Government is set up in a lack of political ambition to build a fairer fiscal model, which is more redistributive, which allows the derivation of resources from those who have the least despite the increase in economic inequality that brings this pandemic, economic and social. And I think that also -- the same way the socialist voicer pointed out -- all and all of us saw the headlines these last few weeks, these days. Since the beginning of this pandemic, one of the central concerns of this group has been the increase in social inequality and poverty. We even read yesterday how the estimates made by social organizations towards the Davos Forum are that there are already over 60,000 more people in poverty and social exclusion in our country since this crisis began. And, of course, the view we had in 2019 was not to throw rockets with nearly 1/4 of the population of Galicia at risk of social exclusion. So we understand that in this articulation there is no correction in this respect either. And also, once again, despite the initial part of this crisis, in which it seemed that since neoliberal dogma had assumed that public intervention in the economy was fundamental, here what we see is more of the same. There's no bet on strengthening public services, there's no bet on reversing the empty and precariousness of these public services -- starting with the staff that supports it -- and it doesn't include any extraordinary measures to dynamize our economy at a time when the current situation is compounded by a previous situation of the year 2020, which was not extraordinary either. We can basically conclude that for the Galician Nationalist Block the only different, the only extraordinary, which appears in this articulation is that mention of the issue of European funds and of the Next Generation funds. And we have to regret that what it does is to certify -- for the Galician Nationalist Bloc -- that the People's Party remains comfortable installed in its unilaterality strategy and that it simply wants to give you legal rank in this articulated and other projects that are already being processed in the House. But, of course, even though it's the literary innovation that includes this articulate, it doesn't satisfy us, we understand it's not the right line. So we can say that, in this part of the budgetary process, the People's Party has just definitely dropped the carabou in front of those appeals that we heard at the beginning of this legislation. Here we find neither dialogue nor consensus nor any purpose to amend those weaknesses that have jumped into the 19th century. And for this reason, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, in addition to the amendments to the state of expenditure and also the Law of Measures, we have tabled a total of 38 amendments to this articulate that affect the line of years before -- because the articulated is a clone of previous budgets -- and that are consistent with the texts of return, with the understanding that at this moment more than ever this country needs another orientation. They want to show our discrepancies with the People's Party project, which actually has extraordinary income on this occasion, but which certainly does not have extraordinary priorities or a roadmap that makes us have a plan for when this country does not have that extraordinary income. We understand that today our country has problems that are new but that, of course, we are also seeing problems that existed before the emergency of the coward-19, like that great industrial crisis. And by means of these amendments, we show an alternative line within the limitations that has a frame of this type and a legislative text of this type as well. And I won't stop developing each one of them, but if we wanted to pick up on this shift, at least a brief synthesis. We, specifically, in the amendments to article 2, as is customary, point out the evidence that we need to increase public spending, we need to increase the expenditure in addition to strengthening public services, health care, education and social services. That actually goes into the DNA of the political project of Greek nationalism, but of course we understand that a health crisis cannot be solved without further effort in this area. And in this crisis, we heard -- I said it before -- talking about the importance of the public, but it doesn't correspond to the output it's articulating, which, of course, is not a fair exit nor is it an output thought by and for Galicia. We also include issues that seem fundamental to us from a long-term perspective. In Amendment No 3, which we do in Article 9 (1), we insist on something that is not new for our band, either -- but this crisis has since come to confirm that we were doing so when we demanded it --, which is basically a consensus that, if these special income forecasts coming from the state or coming from Europe are not met, if Galicia finally has to manage smaller budgets that are estimated, there is a commitment in this budget law that social spending will not be affected and that the public services of this country are untouchable. We have already seen in this country in the financial crisis what was the right-wing recipe, and of course, what we claimed was that the lesson had been learned and that it had been rectified in this law. But we see they're not willing. We are already in an economic crisis which is undeniable. And we understand that, in the same way that we cannot childish society by optimizing data on the health situation, we cannot childish Greek society without actually counting that these expansional budgets may not be realized and that, if they are the only ones that will exist throughout the legislation, we must have a commitment not to cut down essential public services. That's something as simple as we propose in our amendment, which was once more rejected by the People's Party. We're afraid it's been refused because we already know what your alternative will be if you have to make spending restrictions decisions. And also because we understand -- and we present other amendments on that line -- that the forecasts of increasing health expenditure are absolutely insufficient. They are insufficient because we are also seeing in this new crisis the lack of health personnel, the lack of infrastructure, the lack of such bleeding elements as ICU beds at this point in the third wave; and because we also have the experience of other years, when year by year the General Account of Sergas tells us that what is expected is not enough. If it's not enough in other years and you have to increase in many exercises more than 400 million euros, of course the extra 400 million euros over last year in this context are important -- we don't despise them -- but of course they're not enough. Another amendment I'd like to point out is number 24. We insist once again that public-private collaboration contracts should not be used during the duration of this law, in which the lessons of experts such as the Vigo Hospital situation are learned, their economic and legal situation. And we also insist -- in a battery of amendments that we present to this articulate -- in that reinforcement of public services. We have bloody examples in this crisis. Just a few weeks ago, we had new data to put black on white, which has been denouncing BNG for years: that only two out of every ten residence squares in Galicia are public; or that, otherwise, 80% are private. That model cannot be the same model as it is offered for the outcome of this crisis. Of course, since the BNG we are facing this intention by the People's Party, the same People's Party that has managed that, throughout the Spanish State, the Union is either that less residential squares finance -- either directly in public centers or through private consultation -- and directly against the recommendations of the World Health Organization and against the lessons of this crisis and what these sectors of our society demand. On the other hand, another series of amendments that we included in this battery are in line to strengthen the public staff, to strengthen those staff who were both applauded at eight o'clock in the afternoon, and the Consortium staff, who suffer from being held off, for example, Article 19 of the V Employment Convention of the Board -- which is only time to enjoy leisure and rest days -- and that these heights continue to remain in the freezer unexplainedly. There are also other amendments designed to reduce precariousness, temporality, in public services. Recently there was also in this House a representative of nurses in combat and he said how his estimate was that more than 60 percent of them had a precarious and eventuality situation. We also incorporate other amendments to issues -- which are not smaller in this context -- of budgetary management, control and transparency. One accepted. The great example of the generosity of the People's Group in this debate is that, of all the amendments -- a thousand and peaks presented together by the Nationalist Block of Wales -- the only thing that is accepted is that economic information is sent monthly, rather than quarterly, to this Parliament. It's important, we don't care, but of course, since we're already in the 21st century, because it wasn't so much to ask. And finally, in our proposals we also present amendments of collaboration, of dialogue and economic support to local authorities, which are very bad at the moment and which have a Galician Union on their backs and putting on their powers which do not correspond to them. And finally, we also indicate in our amendments a request -- although we know it's almost like talking to a wall -- for an alternative path to the issue of European funds. It's one of the most important debates this country will have in the next few months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u18	... and it's unacceptable the formulation that the People's Party is doing, which is basically: I tell you what I'm going to do and you applaud me without questioning anything. This is basically what you did in this budget processing. Of course, we understand that you are not up to what this country needs, that is not the answer we need right now and that, of course, it leaves once again a arrogant, sovereign government and that it is not willing for the slightest dialogue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. One more year, we found ourselves in the adoption of new budgets for the Galician Union, for the year 2021, some budgets that, as you know, the Greek Government prepared in a record time. So I'd like to begin my intervention by congratulating the team of the Business Council. It was a record time, and they'd show up again in time and form if it hadn't been for the three months of delay with which the central government reported the deliveries to the autonomous communities. Therefore, we must congratulate the team of the Business Council for the effort made so that before the end of this January the budgets could be definitively approved. In any case, they're accounts that are more necessary than ever. We are facing exceptional budgets for a tremendously exceptional moment. We have already been discussing much of the morning, listening to the proposals of the various parliamentary groups, but I have to focus on the fundamental aspects of this debate, because it seems that since the opposition they have not just understood the value and importance of these budgets at this very moment. We are faced with the highest budgets in Galicia's history -- with 11,563 million euros --, budgets that rise by 14% in relation to the previous exercise, budgets that contemplate the greatest social expenditure in Galicia's history, budgets that contemplate the greatest investor effort in our history, budgets that are focused on recovery and with three well-defined objectives: overcoming the pandemic, reactivating the economy, creating employment, and meeting the needs of families, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-government. These are prudent, responsible budgets, and realistic budgets, far from improvisation and incoherence of general state budgets, recently approved and so applauded, at least, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. At first, too, BNG did, who later corrected. These are budgets that resort to responsible indebtedness. These are budgets that don't go up to one euro, taxes on the Greeks, businesses or people. These are budgets that consolidate tax reductions of previous exercises in the IRPF -- one of the lowest in all of Spain -- and in succession tax -- by eliminating it in 98% of cases -- ; with the strategy "zero taxes in rural" that stays in time and that we continue despite the pandemic, and with incentives for birth, which puts us at the head of Spain in this kind of policy. These are budgets that shield resources for health infrastructures throughout the legislation. They are social budgets, eminently social -- four out of five euros go to health, education, social policy and employment --. These are tremendously social budgets: health, 4,587 million euros -- 470 million euros more than last year -- education, 2,700 million euros -- 166 million euros more than last year -- social policies, 900 million euros to invest this year -- 126 million euros more than last year -- and employment -- advice, as you know, of creation -- contains a budget of 97 million euros more for active employment policies and equality policies. And finally, there are budgets that create new fundamental instruments to combat the pandemic: the Covid Fund -- EUR 503 million -- ; the React-EU Fund -- EUR 430 million -- ; the consensus fund -- which seems to be not interested in because they are not proposing anything for that consensus fund -- with EUR 115 million; and the fund for health infrastructures, with EUR 105 million in this year 2021 -- a fund that will be multi-annual --. These are the objective data of these budgets, which are good for themselves, as much as you are going to vote against, but which shine especially when you compare them to the general budgets of the State, recently approved and so applauded by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It is very difficult to give credibility to a PSdEG-PSOE who has actively and passively defended central government budgets and who now fiercely criticizes Galician board accounts, when they are objective and undisputedly budgeting that thinks much more about Galicia and that they invest much more in Galicia; that they guarantee resources to fight the pandemic and start re-enacting our economy. How can you applaud general state budgets that lower your investment in Galicia by 11%, the lowest investment figure in Galicia in the last fifteen years, and at the same time present in this House and criticize the budgets of the Union, which rise by 14%! But what a blow is that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group! How can you applaud general government budgets that fall to 6.6% of territorialized investment in our community when that budget rises by 12%, when that budget rises in all autonomous communities except in Galicia -- in some cases up to 47% --! [[Applause]] The treatment given to Galicia by the Government of Spain is insulting and insulting the complicity of the PSdEG-PSOE Parliamentary Group. Meanwhile, they criticize the budgets of the Board, which invests the triple, the triple of what the state has invested in our community! How can you applaud a general state budget that abandons the big infrastructures of Greece and that the few that pick up -- like the downsizing of AP-9 -- are mere deceptions, as we're checking out by the end of January! How can budgets be applauded that are taxed to all Spaniards at such a difficult time for families and businesses as the budgets of the Galician Union are criticised in this House, which consolidate tax cuts and do not raise only one euro taxes to the Greeks! That's what citizens are asking us to do in the street, a street you seem to be not coming out. Because you don't listen to anyone who doesn't belong to your party, and therefore they're in that permanent self-engagement, listening, some nationalists and others, to socialists, to those who say "yes, amen" to everything your party tells them. But do you go out in the street and listen to people? We believe that it is not, and we believe that this is why in 2020, 2016, 2012 and the first in 2009, the Greeks did not give them their confidence. How one can applaud general government budgets that forget the demographic challenge, none of the law of dependency, despise the Xacobeo, while criticising the budgets of the Galician Union with more social investment in our history and which devote four out of five euros to social spending in this House! We, of course, did not share the strategy on the left. By focusing on the amendments to the articulate, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that every year we live a permanent déja vu during this debate. I think we have repeated the same ideas and arguments over and over again over the past eleven years. But, year after year, you repeat the same amendments. They repeat the same amendments systematically, and even repeated them this year with such an exceptional budget and a global pandemic context that we've never seen before in our recent history. But they don't care, gentlemen. You come with fine rhesals, they're the usual ones, the usual ones! 90% of its amendments are identical, identical to those of previous years. PSdeg repeats -- do -- 65 amendments. Only eight are new. In such an exceptional context, with budgets rising to 14% and modifying the structure of the Galician board budget for this year, you find that they take the file, they present 65 last year -- which are, by the way, those of the previous one and those of the previous one -- and they present eight new ones. Oh, my God, they didn't really want to work! BNG repeats 34 amendments, there are only four news. How we're not going to repeat the debate if they present the same thing as we've rejected one year after another, the same thing that citizens come down in the polls and you refuse! It is clear that there is a lack of work on the part of the opposition. You see they don't take this matter seriously. The same honourable Member in the 3rd Commission as a socialist spokesman, Mr Francisco Rivera, has already argued in the 3rd Commission that, as we are going to reject them, they are the same as last year. It's that they're technically inconsistent and irresponsible from the political point of view. Half of the amendments are impossible to execute material, or do not comply with legal obligations of the Self-Government itself; and the other half are irresponsible -- and therefore unacceptable -- for eliminating games that are essential for the ordinary functioning of the Greek Public Administration. Finally, one more year, more of the opposition's groups to limit themselves, in addition to voting simultaneously on one another's amendments, even if they are contradictory. On the amendments to the BNG articulated, I have to point out that they begin by proposing an important tax increase. Nothing said Mrs. Presas of this matter in her speech. There's an important tax increase. The types of IRPF, wealth, reduce the minimum exemption, eliminate bonuses, or create new taxes. Madam Presas, in the People's Party of Galicia we believe this is the time to do the opposite, this is the time to do the opposite, the time to lower taxes to support the Greek families and businesses at such a difficult time as this. They propose a 3% increase in pay, which simply doesn't allow the state's basic regulations. These budgets already contemplate the maximum wage increase allowed by the current legislation. They also want to delete the article that regulates the modules of concerted education. If we do, you know what would happen, Mrs. Presas? We would automatically stop paying their salaries to thousands of teachers at the concert centres in Galicia, and leave thousands of children on the street without schooling. The truth is, it doesn't seem very timely or very prudent. On the other hand, they propose to lower the expenses in offices and possible staff, you guys!, the ones in the Bipartite!, the ones who increased them when they ruled. It's just that spending in cabinets today, eleven years after the Greeks took them out of Galicia, it's even lower than when you ruled. It's just that you support a government in Spain that brutally multiplied spending on cabinet staff. Are we getting the hair or are they taking the hair of all the Greeks? I think the first and the second. They propose to create a new budget office in Parliament, at the service of their lordships, with functions -- we have to tell them -- that already exercises the Board of Auditors. Finally, it must be noted that they also propose to create a fund, with 1% of the primary non-financial expenditure, to combat the pandemic through the unanimous agreements reached by the Reconstruction Commission, Parliament or the ESC. We believe that, given the current level of uncertainty, it seems more timely, it seems more reasonable, to opt for a prudent approach as it proposes to the Union, which is to create a system of four different funds that allow greater flexibility of maneuver for the Greek Government. For these reasons, we are going to reject your amendments. Then are the amendments to the articulate presented by the Socialist Party. They propose changes that cannot be made by this parliamentary procedure, such as changes to the Continent Fund -- they cannot be made in this parliamentary process -- or as for changes in careers, where collective bargaining would be necessary. They present multiple amendments asking for clarifications that are not necessary, except that they don't properly analyze this matter -- because they're collected in various regulations or simply because they're redundant and they wouldn't make any sense --. They ask that the spending of office staff in budgets be specified, which is already perfectly regulated in Law 2/2015, of public employment in Galicia. They're also following up on their opposition to concerted education, in this case with an amendment that would mean that they would not pay the salaries to the teaching staff that performs managerial duties. It doesn't seem very timely either. They also want to eliminate the modules, which is absolutely inconsistent with their amendments to the whole and the state of expenditure, in which they ask to reduce the credits to attend the agreed education. Anyway...! They propose the increase of several transfers without determining how they would finance them, and they also call for the adoption of a local funding bill, which makes no sense right now, because it is pending reform by the Government of Spain -- of its government, of its party -- of the autonomous financing system, which would therefore also involve a new local funding framework. Therefore, you ask Mr. Pedro Sánchez. I suppose there's a direct thread between Mr. Caballero and Sánchez -- at least until now, while they don't celebrate that congress that they want to call you --. That they speak, that they talk to each other, that they can solve it, because this is not the mechanism to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to finish by asking them for some commitment and loyalty, not with the Government of Greece, not with the Union, but with the Greeks. Leave each other's theater, stop relying on these meaningless amendments to justify a negative budget that you know is positive for Galicia. Today you have a chance to do this. We can move forward together, better and faster, or we can move forward alone -- as we have done over the last ten years --. But they had no doubt that Galicia would go ahead with you or without you. Because if you vote against these budgets today, you are voting against the most necessary budgets in the recent history of this community. They would be voting against the rise of investment in health and social policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u22	They would be voting against supporting families and businesses by keeping tax cuts. And they would be voting against shielding health infrastructures, shielding public education, shielding employment and equality policies. Finally, they would be voting against Galicia and all the Greeks. I'm sure that's not what anyone here in this House wants, and therefore we invite them to reflect and listen to what the Greeks are asking for in the street, which is political unity. Because if they don't close their shoulders right now, when they've been planning on doing it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Turn to define the amendments of the other groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mr. Tellado, listening to him here today, he seemed to me like a super-moderate and super-correct person, which is not very common of you in this parliamentary headquarters. I'd like your discussions to be that way all the time. What's going on is that there are things that really catch my laugh a little bit, like when you say you invite us to vote in favour because, if not, they're going to be alone, and they hold our hand. Look, I already explained to you in my first intervention that you didn't want at any time, at any time in the process of these budgets, to hold hands. They had already made it clear from the outset that you would vote for them alone, that, by doing so in the usual arrogance, they would vote for them with their votes in favour, only and exclusively. But besides, you allow the luxury of calling us "little workers" and another adjective that I don't remember -- I wrote it here, but, well, I'm not going to insist on it anyway --. And look, I'm going to tell you one thing: I don't want you to call us the Socialist Parliamentary Group, neither scarves nor cowards -- which is what little workers are called in my county --. Because, look, the little workers, if we go to that, were you, the Greek Government, because they took the 1,575 million, with the biggest euros they came from the European Union and the state, and they shared them to match their accounts. [[Applause]] They haven't even changed one of the programs or one of the games. So you don't come here to insult us or call us little workers, because I think we're doing our best work we can and very dignifiedly. [[Applause]] I don't approve of you or any of the People's Party. You speak of this as a continuous javu for eleven years because we repeat practically the same amendments. But, look, see if they're little workers that you, the German Government, the Government of the People's Party, bring practically the same budgets, bring practically the same articulated, and therefore we, according to our ideology and our way of understanding the public, because we present quite similar amendments since year after year are rejected by the Roll of the People's Party. Well, as was in my initial exhibition, I'll keep telling you why these budgets are totally ineffective budgets. They are also ineffective in economic promotion, which is essential to lay the foundations for change in Galicia's productive structure. It is a project of budgets of the Galician Union that lacks strategy and commitment to the modernization and empowerment of the Greek productive sectors, that does not take on the challenges of the ecological transition or digitization and that does not change its inaction on industrial policy -- by the way, something that assumes the Government of the Galician Union itself in the explanatory statement of the Law on Administrative Simplification, which will soon also be discussed in this Parliament of Greece --. Therefore, the German Government itself admits that there must be a change of structure, and admits the failures of its way of ruling during these eleven years of the People's Party's Government. And, look, we, finally, consider these accounts to be totally ineffective for the municipalities. The socialists have an unequivocal commitment to the councils because the councils are the administration that is closer to citizenship, the first to meet people's needs, the administrations that at this time of the pandemic have made an unprecedented effort to meet the needs of their neighbourhood, while the government Feijóo increases its competences without bringing them the resources they need. The government of Pedro Sánchez does not allow autonomous communities to fall because there are people behind it, and with budgets that grow to 1,575 million euros, the government Feijóo leaves the municipalities by reducing its departure by 11.4 million euros in transfers to local entities. And in transfers to help with the expenses caused by the vault, sky! That's the contribution of the Galician Union to the Greek Town Councils. [[Applause]] And, look, the German Government in this last legislation has tried to divert the Local Cooperation Fund every year, trying to stop being an unconditional fund to turn it into a conditioned and specific fund that you previously determined. And we socialists present amendments year after year to solve this situation, because this year we understand that in the law articulate you establish a base fund of almost 113 million euros -- exactly like what was in 2009 -- and they add up to a story...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u26	...called "additional fund" for nearly 9 million euros, violating the agreement that these funds have to be non-finalist funds. And you're destined specifically for certain issues, such as councils where there are prisons, spending in health centres in charge of the council -- by the way, failing to comply with the local Covenant signed in 2006 -- maintenance of mid-grade conservatories, merged councils -- which, of course, are over and over again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u27	Finish, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u28	Sorry, don't I have time? Fuck!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u29	No, it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u30	Well, nothing. There are a number of counts you're going to give and you've already given initially to certain municipalities, failing to comply with the agreement that they're not conditioned. Just half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u31	Thank you. No, we have a day today that you can't imagine, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u32	President, I just want to talk about two things about amendments to articulate. Our amendments were intended to improve the level of transparency of budgetary management and clarify the expenditure on advertising and institutional communication...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u34	...who dedicates to Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u35	Thank you. It's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u36	...to limit the amounts of credit transfers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u38	...to regulate the use of heading 621...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u39	It's clear, it's clear. It's all clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u40	...and improving the working conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u41	Please, your time is up... [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please look at the watch. Please! [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, that's it! [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You've got it all figured out! That's absolutely clear! It was very clear. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Man, please! But it's two minutes, please! [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, listen. You were especially in the first round three minutes and now two and peak... the rest, much less. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, that's registered here and checked. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you, I'm watching the wig here. Please! [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Well, we keep going. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u42	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Tellado, we have to start again denying the bigger one. It's just that you've given here a description of the exceptional nature of these budgets of the Galician Union, and the problem is that they're not exceptional. The problem is that the only exceptional thing that they have -- where I have already insisted on my first intervention -- are extraordinary amounts, a forecast of special funds covered by the state and the European Union. Indeed, the forecast is in the budget letter, but it's the only one that's exceptional. What are then the political decisions of the priorities and how the Greek Government's economic, social and financial policy will develop is more than that, Mr Tellado. And of course we are facing it, because we understand that, if something had to be learned in this crisis, it was that way it would not go properly. The roadmap you present here is once again a neoliberal roadmap, an absolutely unilateral roadmap. Because all you want is to put appeals to consensus in press headlines, but then, in reality, day to day, unilaterality. You intend to come here, say what you want and that the opposition applauds and we're silent. And that's not our duty, because that's not what this country needs, Mr. Tellado. You will always have a responsible attitude -- that you would like other governments to have a responsible opposition like that of this country -- but, of course, you don't conjure up or buy with an exit from the crisis that you are articulating, which is not the one this country needs, which is neither fair nor betting by the public services nor by the economic dynamism of the country's own companies and the fabric of the small and medium-sized company, nor by the issues that we are putting on the table. [[Applause]] It is so rare this budget that you had to use almost 80% of your time to talk about state budgets -- that when you want to have a monographic debate, where state budgets go! --. And unfortunately we already have other things to deal with here on the table. You know, when they get into the inflate of self-government, if they want to walk through our proposals also in the sphere of state, they'll be welcome. But, of course, I think we must take this debate a little bit seriously, with a little less frivolity. Because the situation we have outside this Chamber is very worrying, because today everyone is thinking about the consequences of falling sick, is thinking about the economic, social situation and the health of their people. And in this context, the only thing the People's Party offers here is its usual resession. Because if there's anything resounding in this budget debate, it's the People's Party doing what's best, which is opposition to the opposition. And, of course, it's not expected to be less horrifying in this context. [[Applause]] And you also made a remix of the other debates on the state of expenditure and the accompanying law. But, of course, I want to take this turn to deny the greatest in another statement that you have tried to sustain here, which is that it is the most social budgets in history. It's incredible, because every budget presentation is the most social budgets in history. You're gonna hit some kind of record. But, of course, that's not at all like that. How can it be that in an ever-increasing budget, in an budget that is supposed to respond to a health crisis, health care remains less -- the relative weight of budgets -- than in the previous one? Yes, don't deny the head, from 33.8% to 33.5%. If every year the Board of Auditors -- which you yourself mentioned -- tells us that the Board pays with extraordinary public health spending, if it tells us that we have to increase year by year the budget that they expect because it doesn't come, if in the last exercise analyzed by the Board of Auditors -- 2018 -- they have paid more than two hundred million euros of increase, how is it going to solve a health crisis with an increase of four hundred and a peak? It's important but it's insufficient. It's insufficient, and we're already seeing, Mr. Tellado, how you're managing this third vacancy. We're already seeing it, because there's no serious contingency plans in hospitals. It's not that they don't send them to this Parliament when we ask for them, that they're listening to the voices of the people in the healthcare system. Yesterday, the U.S. College of Nursing went out denouncing the situation of the U.S. emergencies and ICUs. You're not taking health reinforcement measures as they should, and that's irresponsibility knowing what we know. And let's not talk about the evolution of primary care and other issues I've already said on the first shift, such as the situation of public residences or other aspects of the state of expenditure in which I wouldn't be allowed time to enter. I'm just making one last thought. The big charge, the original superintendent who gives us the rule of the People's Party, is that we repeat amendments. Look, what are you amending? To ask for the commitment that whatever happens in the management of the Welsh Government's treasury, not to cut down on public services, BNG will repeat it, not from budget to exercise, but from day to day, Mr. Tellado. Because that's a political priority, that's to defend public services and, of course, we're not going to stop doing it. And if it seems repetitive to you, there's nothing left! I'm telling you, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u44	...if we have something clear in this crisis, we have to get out of it by armouring public services. And, for the chapuza, the People's Party makes. I'm not going to go into the carpets of his amendments, the last-minute calls because "I don't know what amends is wrong with the Accompanying Law and you have to have a consensus for it to go well," etc. Because, of course, that, in the context we have, is smaller. But, of course, you're snooping, you're taking the hair. And finally, the most symptomatic thing is that they take care of the attitude that you should have as a government towards the opposition and the rest of the crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u46	And that hedge fund is illustrative, because, of course, you're saying that you commit 1% of the budget that can be expanded in terms of consensus to which this Parliament comes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u48	...you can't. Why can't you? Because you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u50	... put 38 millints in there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u52	...to say they put something in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u53	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u54	And they want to consent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u55	Thank you. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Time's up. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u56	Thank you, President. If it doesn't seem exceptional to you to spend 4,587 million euros on public health, 473 more than last year, the truth is, I don't know what you expect to be exceptional. To shield public services and increase public health, education and social policies budgets is what these budgets are doing that you are striving to refuse. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galego Nationalist Block, it is curious to hear them now so angry with the socialist government. Who would say so a year ago, with the glad ones who were in Pedro Sánchez's investment. I don't think they remember him anymore. I don't know if you remember that controversy with that "thank you" that Nestor Rego said. People thought it was lust, but the truth is nothing to do with it. That "thank you" was an attack of sincerity by the Galician Nationalist Block. The subconscious failed. BNG is obliged to give his support to the government of Pedro Sánchez do whatever he does with Galicia, because they are bound by their pacts in councils and deputies. [[Applause]] You don't care about anything Galicia, all they care about is keeping their cargoes in municipal governments, in provincial governments, where they share government and based on the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] That's why they're forced, forced to swallow, to swallow everything. And we're going to defend Galicia above all, they like it or they don't like it, without juggling as they intend to prove to us day and day the Galician Nationalist Block as well. The truth is we live in a national context of complete political instability. It is also true that this context affects autonomous communities directly or indirectly, and it is also true that some of you would have liked to move that scenario to Galicia. But the Greek people have already decided on July 12th, decided to bet on political stability, decided to bet on rigor and seriousness, decided to bet on experience in management and certainty. The Greeks didn't want experiments, they said in the polls, they wanted a single government and a united government. Look, only six months have passed since those elections, and those who pretended to be an alternative joining the next day of losing the elections turn out to spend the day fighting with each other, fooling each other. Only six months later, in the middle of a pandemic, Greek socialists and nationalists are going through one of their worst crises of understanding. Do you imagine this pandemic had to manage a government made up by you? Every day we listen to the Patal and crocodile tears for none of Pedro Sánchez's, for no one who does it to the Nationalist Block Galego and Ana Pontón. But they always keep governments with them, with the socialists, in the municipalities and in the deputies. In the polls and already in the pandemic we receive a powerful mandate from the Greek citizenship to manage this crisis and that's exactly what we're doing. And you've also received another warrant. The Greeks told them not to, and ordered them to make a different opposition, a constructive opposition. You know what's going on? That you are in possession of absolute truth, they don't listen to anyone telling you the opposite of what you think and they're not willing to listen to anyone. And so you're still wrong that you're wrong in that position that what you're looking for is permanent confrontation, that what you're looking for is torpedo everything without any possibility of agreeing. They're not willing to join anything because those who don't think you're wrong. They don't care, year after year, legislation after legislation, whatever the Greeks say. Go that way. We, of course, won't accompany them. We will continue to focus on managing this crisis. We will continue to fight this pandemic because it is our duty, because it is our responsibility and because it is our commitment to Galicia and to the Greeks. We will continue to fight against this pandemic, against health and also against economics, and, if necessary, we will do so without the support of anyone, without the support of the Government of Spain, who is absent, missing, hidden, waiting for the storm to pass, more concerned by the Catalan elections than by making decisions to prevent the progress of the virus. The Government of Spain is missing and does not pay attention to what they demand and need autonomous communities. And we're also going to go on without the support of the opposition -- if that's what you want -- which is still more concerned about electoral advantage than something else. You don't oppose the government of Feijóo, you don't oppose the Union, you oppose Galicia, you oppose all the Greeks. Why, if they don't support the German Government right now, when do they think about it? If they don't make a loyal and constructive opposition right now, when do they think about it? I'll tell them the answer: never! never! And that's why they're going to remain opposition for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician People's Party has already removed Galicia from another crisis -- as serious as this one, probably --. And we did it before most of Spain's autonomous communities. We know how to do it. It's true that with a loyal and constructive opposition we could get out before this crisis, but be sure we'll go out with or without you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u58	With the strength of all the Greeks we are going to defeat this triple pandemic -- health, economic and social --. And the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, don't forget. They'll remember where we were each of us during the pandemic. They will remember who was at the front of fear in good times and bad times. They'll remember who pulled his shoulder and remember who didn't. When all this happens, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, within two or three years, the Greeks will look back and remember perfectly what the Galician Union did, but they will also remember that the PSdEG-PSOE never...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u60	...a hand, because he was very busy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u61	Finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u62	...in being a loyal servant of Pedro Sánchez. They won't remember the name of who was in front of the PSdEG-PSOE, probably, but they'll know it wasn't useful for Galicia, and that the BNG was more concerned about the interests of his party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u63	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u64	...that by breaking the shoulder and defending Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u65	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u66	...after breaking the chest and talking so much about homeland and nation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u67	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u68	Homeland and nation nothing, you're the only one who's interested...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u69	Thank you, Mr. Tellado, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u70	Time's up, please. Thank you, that's it. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Joint debate on state of expenditure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u71	We are now continuing the joint debate on states of expenditure. For the round of parliamentary groups to explain their position on the Commission's ruling and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a crisis of enormous magnitude. When the Government began to develop this project, it had a plan, a vision of what was going to be reality over these months, and it has already changed substantially. The vision that you had in the budget project that you developed at the time you aspired to save Christmas, at the time you were opposed to the state of alarm because you had to arrive at a Holy Week with tourism filled in Spain and Galicia, that vision that you posed in the diagnosis of reality came down. And that shows not only that those budgets that you had had structural weaknesses, project failure, commitment failure, but that recent events would also require a greater capacity to deal with such a major crisis. Galicia needs some budgets to save an enormous crisis. It's good that there are budgets, but the budgets that the People's Party makes for this crisis are not good. They miss the opportunity to have the ability to make a higher level of expenditure to correct the evas and the weaknesses of the country and enable people to protect themselves from the greatest crisis. Budgets aren't up to what Galicia needs, budgets aren't up to what the Greeks and the Greeks require, budgets don't have the dimension to strengthen the model of well-being, to rescue the most affected economic sectors, and to reactivate the economy towards the future. Budgets show an inability to manage the economy by a government that deceives itself, that plays self-engagement, that prefers to see in the mirror of the speech of a reality that is not the one that the Greeks and the Greeks live. We are facing a crisis of enormous magnitude, in which you find yourself with budgets that give you a greater possibility of spending, with budgets that allow you to respond with countercyclical, anticyclical policies, with expansional policies, with Keynesian policies; just a few budgets that amend all the economic policies of the People's Party for eleven years. [[Applause]] These budgets you are defending today by saying that the possibility of spending requires a possibility of implementation from the Union, but this is positive because it is supposed to have greater mechanisms in the face of the crisis show that for eleven years you have misled Galicia with all its speeches, that for eleven years, after the great recession in which you have applied cutting policies, where you have applied the adjustments, austerity, you have applied the wrong economic policies to respond to times of economic crisis, to two economic recessions and to years of slowdown in which growth would have to be recovered. And the balance of those 11 happy Arcadia years that Feijóo said we lived in Galicia shows that 70,000 jobs disappeared in Galicia while 685,000 jobs were generated in Spain. That is the balance of eleven years before the crisis, but we arrived at the biggest crisis and we met with a Government of the People's Party who does not want to use the possibility of expanding budgets, driven by socialist and social democratic policies that managed to change the roadmap that was in Europe to meet this crisis and that they were able to have expansional budgets in Spain and to be able to send to the Galician community more than 1,100 million euros extraordinary between state funds and European funds. You make an accounting document with these budgets, but you lack a country project, sensitivity to the crisis of greater magnitude and to strengthen the state of well-being and vision in the medium and long term so that in this crisis we can deal with anyone remaining behind. [[Applause]] That's why we have to tell you that you have the tendon hand of the PSdEG-PSOE from the very first moment, but you despise the agreement and despise dialogue. They despise the agreement with the parliamentary groups of the House, they despise the agreement with the councils of Galicia, they despise the agreement with social agents, they despise the agreement with the Greeks and the Greeks, because, after the Socialist Party of Galicia presented 570 proposals for amending expenditure to these budgets, the People's Party did not accept a single one. 570, zero. [[Applause]] And that shows a People's Party roused in its political strategy without understanding what's going on in the country, without wanting to deal, without taking advantage of this opportunity of spending that you're going to manage, in which, if you take advantage of it, we'll all be losing. I'd like a different reality, I'd like to meet with a government of the Union able to recognize its weaknesses and its failure to manage the country's economy in times of crisis and recovery, but also willing to hold hands and have the permeability needed to enrich and improve budgets that today are a role surpassed by the needs of our country. That lack of will agrees to reject all statements made by the President of the Union throughout this pandemic. We meet a People's Party that only negotiates with married people, but doesn't want to agree with the Greeks and the Greeks how to get out of this crisis, who doesn't want to hear what's going on in the hostel, who doesn't want to hear what's happening to the country's businesses, who hides European projects, who hide them, who don't want to strengthen health with the budgetary possibility that gives these funds. We have to change. And they will continue to have the tendon hand of the PSdEG-PSOE in the face of the greatest crisis, but undoubtedly you are wrong; they are wrong when they do not admit a single proposal to change the spending of the 570s that the Socialist Party of Galicia leads to these budgets. That's why today is a day when you will approve the budgets of the Galician Union, but you are wasting an opportunity to arrive at country agreements and get the recovery to be more solid, more powerful and more reliable. The Greeks and the Greeks today meet with a People's Party who has presented budgets for Galicia without a project, without scope and without measures. And now, with a third most serious wave than ever, you find yourself wanting to make a single change in the expenses of these budgets, despite the fact that you made these budgets thinking about saving Christmas and having a happy 2021. The reality of the cowardly crisis forces us to rethink the economic response that the Galician Union had planned for our country, to have a will to agree and to arrive at major country agreements. And you're wrong. They're wrong for a lot of things, Counselor, because, when we talk about protecting well-being, we have to understand that there are mechanisms to do so. If more than 1,100 million euros are coming to Galicia because of the crisis in this 2021, why don't you take advantage of those funds to give more weight to the whole social? They don't. The relative weight of these budgets in fundamental matters such as health or education is reduced in relation to last year's budgets. I mean, cake is bigger because since the Spanish State and the European Union more money is coming, but when you have the biggest cake you're still making for health and education, you're proportionally smaller than it would be. And we find ourselves with a reality that claims more because we need to improve health, and improving health means we have budgeting that they bet on, because if it wasn't a matter of budgets or budgeting, you'd have to stop the Health Counsellor, because either it's a lack of funds or it's mismanagement; and I think that we have to give more funds and give more management to the health issue. Because when we see the situation of primary care with a telemedicine where all the Welsh and Welsh people know there's a lot of trouble getting appointments, to be cared for, you have to change. Because when we see that surgical interventions are reprogramming that have been scheduled for months and if they have to be delayed, it is necessary to improve the health system. Because when there are problems with the vaccination plan and the Government of Galicia still has to explain why 200 vaccines have been placed irregularly at the Pontevedra Hospital Complex, you have to improve. Because when in the tracking system we're still in line with the Spanish set, we have to improve. Because when we have a psychiatric hospital in Conxo with massive contagions, health needs to be improved. And to improve health, we need commitments, management and funds. And you lack commitment to funds and you need better management. [[Applause]] But we see this in many areas, because if we go to social policies, we also find ourselves with a deep problem; we also find that you do not take advantage of the possibilities of social policies to protect people and also to boost the economy when consumption falls, when the whole of demand falls. You don't believe in a board of well-being, you believe in the economic model that Galicia has applied for eleven years, that of the adjustments, that of the cuts, that of the accounting document that balances a budget text, but that lacks vision to bring the country forward. You, of course, live in a reality that we don't share, in an idea that the 11 years of PP government allowed Galicia to bring a much better situation, but this People's Party that always talks about employment, never wants to talk about employment in Galicia, which is seen by the occupied population, by the number of workers who are busy in our country. When the number of people in the country falls, Galicia is smaller, Galicia is more childish, Galicia has less chances for the future, and if you have not been able to achieve over the past few years, with economic growth, generating jobs, how will they generate jobs in this crisis or keep the job existing in the face of these complications? That's why we need a new approach that strengthens social policies, so we've also made amendments to get the problems that exist in so many aspects of social policies, where we need better management and more funds, and you don't do the best management or promote more funds. During this month of January we saw many days as larger residences had massive contagions, like that of Vimianzo, or like that of Leiro, or like that of Tui, or this weekend still that of Sarria. Either it's a management problem or it's a fund problem or it's a problem of both. There is a need for more management and more funds, and this is about making some budgets, about assigning priorities and having a country project to develop them, because budgets are not just accounts, it's the country project that is spent on, and we can't afford to take this historic opportunity to respond to the reality of the country in which we live. But if we need more health, more social policy, more education and more public education. At a time when there are more than 2,000 children in Galicia who are not attending classes because of the cowardly crisis or more than a hundred closed classes, there will have to be a conciliation plan so that the families of the country can match their working reality with the situation in which we are living. This is a scenario that also involves more spending on youth, where you also cut off. These budgets lack the necessary commitment to strengthen the Health Unit. You'd rather get your arms crossed, as if this didn't go with you, rather than strengthen a collective response that builds the most powerful protective shield to get anyone to stay behind in such a big crisis. But if the welfare state is a fundamental issue where you didn't want to believe or support any of the proposals that we make to improve these budgets, the rescue of the economy is a fundamental part. Yesterday the president of the Galician Union announced restrictions of greater strength to fight the virus. The Greek Socialists do not question each of the decisions which, based on the reports of the Clinical Committee, involve restrictions on the fight against contagions and against cowardice, but if we demand that these restrictive measures be accompanied by rescues to the most affected sectors, to the sectors you close. The new restrictions announced yesterday by the President of the Council of Galicia imply, for the hospitality, culture, commerce and sport, a cover-up in many cases. With the restraining measures you announced today, you're putting a lot of activity in Galicia in shops, in hotels, in culture and in sports. We do not question the restrictions, but we ask that those restrictions be accompanied from the very first moment of economic measures so that these businesses can survive. While you're going to publish in the Official Journal of Galicia the set of restrictions to protect us against the third wave of the vault, you also have to approve right now, from the very first moment, when you're closing the shops, the hostel, the sport and the culture, the measures so that the country can survive. [[Applause]] We don't want a Greek government to put the lockdown on businesses, businesses and the hostel without giving its support so that we can survive the greatest crisis. And for that, the funds in these budgets are increased by over 13%. So there's more money to be able to boost that reactivation, but you don't, they didn't do it in 2020. In the project you were talking about for self-government and micro-enterprises by 2020, the advisor has already acknowledged here that throughout 2020 the Government of the People's Party has put in the hands of self-government and micro-enterprises its star project: EUR 22 million effectively. So they closed the year 2020. [[Applause]] Indeed, in that same year, in 2020, the Government of Spain referred to ERTE, in subsidies for unemployment and for the protection of self-employed more than EUR 1,200 million to the Greeks and to the Greeks. That's the Government that the People's Party doesn't like, the Government that supports the Greeks and the Greeks with funds in front of a government that's behind its back, with the arms crossed and doesn't want to protect welfare and rescue the economy. That's why we ask them to, beyond following you in the self-engagement to say that everything does well, today they announce the package of measures necessary to rescue the economy. We propose to the President of the Council of Galicia, at the time when the budgets are approved, that he commit himself to the Greeks and to the Greeks today and that while he puts the lock on thousands of shops, of hosts, to the people of the world of culture and to the people of the world of sport, he gives them the opportunity to survive during the first half of 2021. That's the biggest challenge today. Besides putting locks, you put funds so people can live and survive. These budgets don't count on that planning, because they did it at another time and with another priority. [[Applause]] You believed your own lies, believed for many days that it was not necessary to put the state of alarm in Spain, because it was a terrible reputation cost; you believed that you didn't have to have a perimeter lock in Galicia; you believed that they wouldn't apply the curfew -- the Health Counsellor himself said in an interview-- you believed that the priority was to save Christmas, and, with your proposal to save Christmas, they put Galicia in a much more complex situation, and the worst thing is that they are not rectifying and based on closing but not supporting it. That's why we have to support the country as well. This approach is a country plan, with a People's Party that has to get off the pedestal to understand the gravity situation of the Greeks and the Greeks. And if it's true that you have that vocation and that heel, you once explain why 570 amendments to the Socialist Party's expenses did not admit a single one. It's that when the Greeks hear this they know there's no willingness to cooperate, that you're in another strategy, and that's exactly why we ask them to change. You, Counselor, put the Keynesian suit in about fifteen days, but the suit doesn't feel good for them, it sharpens them a lot, and they don't know how to walk with the Keynesian suit so they can make the cost that drives the country's economic activity, because they don't believe it. You're the cutters and they're still the cutters. You are the reduction in public services, because you believe in the market, and you follow that line. You're the ones who don't want a lot of well-being and those who prefer a set of arms crossed, with a lot of self-propaganda but with few solutions. [[Applause]] I want to ask you what expectations the Greeks and the Greeks have today when they meet these budgets. Can the thousands of self-employed people in our country, the thousands of workers whose businesses or microenterprises depend on these budgets today be quieter? Can the world of culture be quieter today with these budgets? Can the gymnasiums be more relaxed today with these budgets? Do the Greeks who see that their children cannot go to schools today have a solution to conciliation with these budgets? Do you have hospitality and trade a response to the situation of gravity with these budgets? Can the rural environment find in these budgets a possibility of hope to reactivate itself and be able to function? And, for the industrial crisis, what industrial project is behind these budgets for the Galician assembly, for the most dynamic industrial poles, as could it be for the Coruña, or could it be for Vigo, but also for so many whispers in Galicia or for a situation like that of the crisis in Ferrolterra? What budget plans does the Government of Galicia have? What industrial proposals do you have so that the country can be calmer? [[Applause]] What proposals do you have today for the health sector, where we find ourselves professionals who have been outnumbered and who need reinforcement? I believe, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you are wrong in your proposal not to assume that to get out of this crisis is better the deal and get out together. And I think they're wrong, even though I wish them in these budgets all the successes for the Greeks and for the Greeks, because they're all the successes. I believe that, if we look at each of these budgets on our part, we see that the rejection of the Socialist Party's proposals shows this failure of commitment. If we're talking about R+D+i, what answer do you give to so many researchers and research centers in Galicia who see that science here has a very low level of spending? Or just so many post-doctoral researchers, to whom you reduce labor contracts in the most serious crisis in this country? What answers do you find for those who want to take advantage of European funds, because, together with well-being and the ransom, these budgets should be those of the possibilities of modernisation, and they are not? You've been talking about 7 tractor projects, 108 hidden projects, and now the projects are already gone. There are no more 108 projects that you don't teach or show. They're starting to talk to themselves every day about new projects because they know that Mr. Feijóo was talking about seven, but when he came to see that lehendakari, in the Basque Country, spoke about that he had several hundred, he said that he too, for reactivation, for modernization, for digital transition, for the ecological transition, and he had nothing. After this there will be a problem in employment, because if you don't have an economic policy to guide the crisis of greater magnitude, what answer do you give to the Greeks and to the Greeks? And that's what so many young and young people in our country are asking today: do we have, with the budgets of the Union, more strength or more possibilities for the future? There is no hope or future if the People's Party does not bet on promoting the well-being and employment opportunities of the younger people. [[Applause]] These budgets, in addition, are a very clear attack on the Greek municipalities. You are fundamentally disloyal to the municipalities of Galicia. At the time of the biggest crisis, when the Galician Union receives more than EUR 1,100 million from the Government of Spain and from European funds, the Galician Union cuts cooperation funds from Galician municipalities. That's why we ask them to increase an extraordinary fund of 100 million euros in order to share objective criteria between municipalities that have to cope with extraordinary expenses that put them in a very difficult situation. And what did PP vote? No, no, no, no. The PP voted not to give more funds to the municipalities, the PP voted not to an amendment that wants to increase funds to 62 million euros for the rescue of the hostel, the PP voted not to many amendments to improve health care, to have more stable health personnel, to strengthen primary care. The PP voted not to everything that requires a Social Democratic response to have greater protection for people. And you're still anchored in the wrong policies. It is true, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you have an absolute majority that gives them legitimacy and duty to rule in Galicia, but most absolutes give power but don't always give reason. Most absolutes are not a blank check to manage any situation, and we have seen, even in recent times, most absolutes in many places in the world, in parliamentary systems or presidential systems, which have led self-deceptioned governments to splendour situations that have made it difficult for their citizens to live. You don't believe they're in the pedestal that some elections gave him the power to have a blank check; some elections in which 48 percent of the Greeks and Greeks voted with voting rights and some elections that give them the responsibility to do things right, but I think you're wrong on that line. You make a suggestion -- I heard it right here today in this House, this Parliamentary House -- that the great blame lies with the Government of Spain. I want to ask the People's Party to stop looking for a mechanism to keep trying to corrode the state of autonomy and to try to break the model of state generated in the country as a whole. Be loyal to your proposals. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that Galician problems are a problem arising from the Government of Spain. You have a status that gives them competence as self-government. You've been ruling the German Autonomy for more than thirty-four years from the 40s we've been leading this Autonomy and you have to have the responsibility of those who want to rule. That's the reality of our country when they're going to be 40 years old from the Autonomy Statute, and the People's Party ruled in 34 of them. In that line, be responsible for what they have to do. Let your speech speak of: Spain takes us away, Spain steals us, we are here by step, and when things don't go well it will be the government of Spain and or the citizens of Galicia because they don't comply with the restrictions. It's immodest and disloyal behavior, when you have to be a party to government responsibility, also in Galicia. We know they're not in Spain, that the People's Party of Marriage is the shame of politics on the right of our country. But the People's Party here in Galicia cannot remain in the irresponsibility of Marriage because it is a party that is in the Government of the United States. They have to give up that excuse, the excuse of state budgets that are the ones that make it impossible that we can spend more, because it wasn't that when you were ruling. But here I hear the representative of the People's Party -- who listened to him when he came -- and I keep my mouth open. The People's Party dares to speak of AP-9, when it ordered to extend the concession of AP-9 until 2048 with Aznar as president of the Government; the People's Party voted not to state budgets, which allow to lower the fees; the People's Party condemned the Greeks until 2048 to pay fees on AP-9, and how many euros does the People's Party take in the budgets of the Union to subsidize the expenses of citizens who have to circulate by AP-9? How many funds do you fund the AP-9 fees? And the counselor says no. [[Applause]] Yes, Counselor, yes. The popular party's ignorance is so great that they don't understand that you've condemned the Greeks and the Greeks to pay the fees, that there's a company that carries that concession and that any administration can raise funds to lower the rates of AP-9. Sixty-three million euros from the Government of Spain, zero euros from the Galician Union, which wants us to pay fees for AP-9 up to 2048. That's called Aznar, Feijóo and PP. That's the responsibility of AP-9. We do not accept lessons from this right who has their responsibilities. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] You don't go... I know they get nervous, they get nervous and colorful, because each of the citizens who's going to pay the fee on AP-9, you know what they see? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Aznar's face in the tapes to pay the fees for AP-9, and behind us we see Feijóo collecting the fees, and not a euro of bonuses. Let's, of course, make a historic change to Galician mobility, to state funds, to what you don't want. Yes, Counsellor, yes, you need to know that in other communities autonomic administrations also boost self-streets that are in similar competences as those of AP-9. I understand that when you have the responsibility to explain something that is totally incongruent and so you have to get colored they become uncomfortable. I understand that at the PP's bench this shakes you, but most of all we Scotch all the Greeks to pay the AP-9 fees because of Aznar, Feijóo and the People's Party. And there will be a government that this year 2021 will make a historic downturn of bonuses for 63 million euros. So we don't admit any moral lessons to her irresponsibility and condemnation of the Galician situation. It's time to give answers to the Greeks and the Greeks, it's time to have some budgets that have the spending capacity that Galicia needs. You make budgets without a country project, without commitment to the welfare state and the social services that Galicia needs, without measures for the economic rescue of the sectors that you are closing with yesterday's announced restrictions and without planning for economic reactivation, for modernization and for innovation. That's the balance of budgets. We would like to be able to support some agreed and dialogueal budgets, but they are on the pedestal of the people's sovereignty, which justifies everything with the absolute majority and does not accept a single amendment of the 570 tabled by the Greek socialists. You will understand that our responsibility is to wish all success to the Government and these budgets, but we cannot be responsible for this work done by you; a poorly done work in which the Council is once again able to make accounting documents, but it cannot give an economic response to the Greeks and the Greeks. Today we miss an opportunity to get the answer Galicia needs, the answer that the Greeks and the Greeks are waiting for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u74	Let's hope that this year 2021 will be able to reach more agreements than these budgets could have had, because from the very first moment the PP decided not to agree with the country, with the political forces, with the union forces and with the whole of a Galicia that wants more well-being and more future. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to set the position, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u76	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all and all. I think we are living this debate at a time when, at least, we will have a point of union, and that point of union is that we are experiencing an unprecedented challenge as a society in which we have to be responding to a pandemic that is leaving us a huge cost in lives, in economic, social and also emotional consequences that it is obvious that it has no parallel in times of peace. That's why I also want my first words in this debate to be a reminder to the hardest part of this pandemic, which are undoubtedly the people who left us, the people who lost their lives. They're now adding 1,649 to our country, and we know that this figure is growing all the time. This is the most important loss we have to regret. We also want to send words of encouragement to thousands of people who are fighting the virus in their homes, in hospitals, to people who have contracted the disease, but also to health professionals who are exhausted from a third wave and to those who have to recognize the immense work they are doing. [[Applause]] And I want BNG's will to be clear as well. And the will of the BNG is to reach the shoulder at a time when the country is experiencing a very difficult situation. I'm convinced we won't be right to 100 percent, but something we have to contribute, and it seems to me a bottle mistake on the part of the Government of Galician Union to come to this debate with the automatic pilot of useless absolutism that does not bring anything at all and that does not accept a single proposal from BNG, not a single proposal! I think it's the portrait of a government that, in fact, has an absolute majority to govern, but it's refusing that there may be agreements in favour of Galicia in this House, at least they are. I think it's a bad starting point, and of course I think we're in a very difficult situation where we all have something to contribute. I regret that the input of the People's Party is that knee of absolutism which does not want to take into account any reflection on the future of the country. I think they're still in time to rectify, because, of course, I'm the one who's convinced this country is going to go ahead because we have workers, we have skills, we have talent, but I also think that all that potential needs more than the German Government gives in these budgets and that what you're designing right now. Of course, for that potential to be put in place, we need a government that has a plan for the future for Galicia, a plan for the future that is not to follow on the road, but always about failed policies. We also need the Government to be aware that the most important economic measure that can be taken right now is to save lives and practice a policy in which if you are aware of reality, because I believe that what this government needs is to get off the official car, the bubble of San Caetano, and to be aware that we are living a very difficult situation for many people, which is not solved with press notes, advertising or the same proclamations as ever. And of course they won't solve it by opposing the opposition, which gives the feeling that it is what they constantly do in this Parliament. [[Applause]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I think they have to correct, because so far, unfortunately -- and I really say -- what we had was a government of the Union that went behind the virus; they had to spend twenty-five days to make decisions, even though the pandemic was out of control. We see a Mr. President of the Senate absent in this debate and who, instead of assuming his responsibilities, blames the situation on the Greeks and the Greeks. And also, unfortunately, we have a central government that seems to be the main concern you have right now is in Catalonia and in elections and not in controlling the virus. We, I insist, believe that the situation is serious enough to leave that automatic pilot of useless absolutism, that automatic pilot that leads not to accept one of the 505 BNG proposals, where we mobilise 1,500 million euros. Some amendments between those 505 should be useful right now. I think it's a mistake, and especially that you should react, because these budgets have to be redirected because the situation is going beyond the government, and these budgets are obsolete before they are approved. It's just that even you had to recognize that your star economic proposal, which was the Jacobean, is going to have to reform because it's obvious that the forecasts they had -- unfortunately -- will not be corrected. I, of course, regret that your conception of dialogue is not to dialogue, that they do not agree with anyone and that they do not feel at any time or value any proposal, when we want to move forward. I think it's a bottle mistake and I really think that by Galicia, by the Greeks and by the Greeks, these budgets must be reorientated. [[Applause]] Because in a situation like this I think it's also important, at least, that we take advantage of to make some reflections. We -- we said before -- the first measure we're talking about in the economic field is saving lives. We've seen where that wrong approach to saving Christmas that you preached a few months ago. So we, of course, hope that the measures that have been put in place will be useful, even though they seem to us in many respects that go through the gas, and above all that this is accompanied by measures that allow us to reorient the major health decisions, in social matters, on the rescue of the sectors that are currently in need of help, because the truth is that until now we are going behind reality. So I think the sensible thing is to reorient these budgets right now, and we're at a point where it's still possible to do it. If we have to delay an hour, two hours to vote, let's do it, but we can sit down and value the alternative proposals so that these budgets will be useful at a time when we are experiencing an unprecedented crisis. And we say from the BNG that these budgets are obsolete and that they do not respond to the challenges the country has for four fundamental reasons: The first is because they don't reverse the serious cuts that have brought against the ropes the public health of our country. Secondly, because there is no real rescue from the economic sectors that are most suffering from the crisis and which, as we see, will have a more acute crisis than you predicted when you made these budgets. Thirdly, because they don't want a single euro to put in place a new model of care for our elders. And lastly, because they don't even design a new economic policy that will allow the country to start up and take advantage of the enormous potential we have to get out of this crisis. We therefore want to call upon them to reflect, to abandon useless absolutism and to be willing to dialogue and to have agreements so that in these budgets we can reach great consensus in four areas. In the first, by really strengthening public health and equiping it with the necessary means, not only to fight against the coward, but also to take care of all people, because we are seeing how the lack of forecast of this government leads to the cancellation of operations and treatments that are important. Secondly, we believe that it is essential that there is a real ransom for the sectors that are currently paying the economic consequences. We're talking about hospitality, but we're also talking about tourism, we're talking about culture, we're talking about the area of trade, and we're talking about many economic activities that are going to suffer very important restrictions right now, and they have to go along with themselves or help, because if not, the problem is that there are a lot of people who won't have to eat in the next few months. Thirdly, it is necessary to reformulate the entire policy of attention to our elders, who have the right not to become a business of companies speculating on their rights. [[Applause]] And finally, it's important that we think about the future and prepare Galicia for the future with a new economic model that really bets on producing our country and that it is an economically and socially sustainable model. These are some of the lessons that leave us with this great crisis that we are living in right now. Learn from the lessons that leave us a crisis like this is an ethical and moral obligation, and it's the only thing we can do if we really want to get out strengthened from such a difficult moment as we're living. I think the government hasn't taken note or is learning from the lessons this crisis leaves us. The first is the importance of public services, particularly public health. And I say they didn't learn from this crisis, because when we look at their budgets in detail, what we see is that they didn't learn that lesson. And they don't do it when we see it as the relative weight of low health in budgets and it just means 33.8% of the budget to 33.5%. They don't do it when we see primary care -- that's a central element in order to be able to cope with the pandemic -- they're not the point of launch at this point in the fight against coward -- they have fewer resources than twelve years ago, specifically, 100 million euros less, when they have to deal with a pandemic that's putting all their feet up. The third question that concerns us, for yes, is the deterioration of public health in general, because we are seeing that we already had a problem, with very high waiting lists in operations, on first appointments to be able to have an assessment of the disease, and what we see is that the coward has made all this increase in an alarming way. These days we see, for example, some data that we find worrying and that any public official should lead to action, to reflect. There is a study that has made health and social associations that work in the care of people with cancer, which evaluates the health impact of coronavirus on hospital care. And what we're told is that the number of patients with new cancers decreased during confinement by 21%, that there is a very significant decrease in the number of treatments, that the number of people treated in hospitals today by 14%, that there is a decrease in the diagnostic activity of cancer and that they have lowered by 30% the cytologies and 23.5% the biopsy. I think we're talking about a subject that's serious enough to have a reaction to the challenge and importance of health, which, of course, we don't see in these budgets. And we don't see these budgets return these applause and that recognition to the workers and workers in public health, which they need is that they end up with a precariousness that leads them to be exhausted in addressing a third wave in which they have a very difficult situation. Counselor, it's not about doing this, throwing balloons out, it's about your government, with your responsibility, acting. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo does a gesture with her hand.]] And we present amendments worth more than 120 million euros in partial amendments so that there is a new primary care model, to put an end to precariousness, so that there is a contingency plan and to ensure that public health is equipped to deal with the waves of the cage, but also to meet the needs of other diseases that continue there, and that we cannot allow them to fail to attend or strengthen a tracking system that we are seeing that they were not able to dimension in order to make one of the issues that was fundamental, which is that when there is an outbreak it is necessary to trace to prevent infection. These are BNG's proposals in the health field that you're going to pass the knee of useless absolutism unique and exclusively because you don't want to dialogue. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would like to refer to an issue which we believe is very important, and this is the ransom for the sectors concerned. Today, at twelve o'clock -- at night -- new restrictions will come into force that affect the hospitality, tourism, culture, gymnasiums, travel agencies, trade... activities that include a very important part of GDP and employment. But in that order there are only restrictions, there is no order of help to rescue these economic sectors, which was what had to be expected. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You, of course, are proving to us that I am a government that comes late and improvises, because, in addition, the grave thing is that the president of the board himself said that he knew we were going to get to a very serious situation after his Christmas saving operation, and it's not only not that he hadn't stopped that situation from coming, he didn't prepare himself to be able to accompany the measures of restriction of the real help of a ransom for those sectors; and what they do is, as always, to engage in opposition to the others. I regret that the Vice-President of the Board -- today is also absent in this debate -- rather than seeking an agreement with the councils and the deputies -- because we want to make it very clear from this rostrum; since the BNG we have the will to reach the shoulder in all the institutions in which we are to help -- instead of looking for that collaboration, rather than really sitting down with the will to come to agreements, it seems that he is more concerned about also making opposition to the deputies and the municipalities of this country; when what is needed is a government that really works to get out of the way. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We can also reach agreements in this House today. We have fines of EUR 80 million for these economic sectors to increase the direct aid they need. And, of course, they have the hand of the BNG in order to reach agreements in this area. Thirdly, I'm going to refer to an issue that we think is crushing and that needs -- I think -- to clear up responsibilities, but above all to correct the mistakes to not repeat them again, which is all that happened in the residences. We see that we have now reached the full vaccination campaign with a situation where the gromos continue to produce themselves. And to us, as much as you try to normalize it, it doesn't seem normal or tolerable that a group of 22,000 people concentrates almost half of the deaths by coward, because precisely in the residences should be where it was easier to put containment measures of the vault, as it's a controlled environment. If they're not able to protect a population that's in a residence, how will they be able to protect the whole population? What we need right now is not only to analyze what happened and that the companies responsible for that management have something more than a file that opens up, but that then does not reach any place; we really have the ethical and moral obligation to change that model of residence and to leave behind a conception in which a fundamental right becomes a business or object of charity. This is a right and must be guaranteed with public funds. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the portrait of the Greek Government in this field is that it is demolition to neglect a matter as important as caring for our elders after a lifetime of effort. It's been twelve years where this country, this government is almost absent in the middle of debate of this kitchen, has not built a single new square in public residences, twelve years! Yes, yes, he promised us seven residences in seven big cities for many years, and we also see that these residences are not going to be made by the German Government. This situation leads us to the failure of the Galician Union to comply with the recommendations of the WHO, but it also violates the Dependency Act. The Dependency Act says that the maximum to wait for a square in a public residence is six months. Do you know how long it takes in Galicia to get a square? At least two years. That's the portrait of his politics in this field; and with situations that are then leading to events that cause a great deal of misery, because there are people, for example, who can live in Marin and have their mother in a residence on the street. How will social contact be maintained when the public model does what it is to uproot people? And the serious thing is, instead of being rectified and actually acting in these budgets to change the model, what they do in the budgets of the Galician Union is dedicate zero euros to a new model of care. And that's what we want to change with our amendments, where we actually bet that the number of public squares is increased, why a new model of residences is spread which cannot be macrocentres and why attention is guaranteed in the home as long as possible. [[Applause]] And there we also want to name a reality that seems very worrisome to us, and it is the need for the home help service to be dignified with more resources, with more means and recognizing the work these workers do -- and I say workers, because most of them are workers -- who are suffering a precariousness of what the Galician Union has a direct responsibility. So in this area, too, we think it's important that we move forward. The fourth question I wanted to mention is the need to reorient everything that has to do with economic strategy. And here's a part of what we're not going to be able to have this debate in the budgets, but I also want to make our concerns clear. Of course, if the great white hope we have on the economic issue is the Next Generation funds and we don't know what government projects are, this is what I think is a first anomaly, not because we don't know the labels or powerpoints they send us, but because we don't know what real projects are, who is behind and who wants to benefit. And what we're wondering is why they hide that data that's so important. And what we also want to make very clear is that economic reorientation cannot be the fact that the big companies in IBEX 35 end up sharing funds while the working people in this country, the small and medium-sized company, what you see is how you won't have access to resources that are important and necessary to modernize our company, to really bet on the transformation of our economic sectors, to modernise the potential we have in agriculture, fishing, to rescue our productive sectors or to make a real bet that this is a country where innovation, talent and science are an element of development. [[Applause]] That's the economic model in which we believe that progress has been made since the BNG, but we see that the German Government does not seem to go that way. They worry that they are not aware of many of the weaknesses we have, because Galicia -- I always say it -- has enormous potential, but that doesn't mean that there are no aspects in which it's not important to change focus and that the Galician Union is also aware of the weaknesses and how to correct them. One problem we have is that employment is increasingly precarious and it's less, because we have fewer people working than in 2009, and that's a very serious problem of country, of precariousness, so it's offering new people a future that is not what we should give them in a land that has the wealth that Galicia has, but also because we're seeing how that conception leads to many people emigration. And, of course, here we talk a lot about the demographic impulse, but the biggest demographic impulse and where we should act is to prevent young people from leaving because of the lack of opportunities, and that's a responsibility for their government. [[Applause]] We're also concerned that we live in an increasingly unequal Galician state. Covid has increased poverty, if any, relative poverty in our country. The situation we had before the vault was that there were more than half a million people, 552,869 people, in a situation of poverty. What happens after these months? For it has grown 10.8% poverty in Galicia. And if we analyze, for example, the Gini index, which measures inequality, we also see how that index went up and that today we have 3.68% more inequality. So what we see is how we had a serious problem in the country that is now exacerbated by the crisis situation. And really -- don't be angry -- what should bother the MEPs and the PP Members is that they increase inequality, not that they report themselves in this Parliament. Honestly, I think that should be the issue. [[Applause]] We also note with concern some analyses that have recently been made public, for example, of the GECE Observatory, which says that Galicia is in a bad situation in terms of competitiveness. We were 4,6 % below the state average by weight in highly competitive companies, so this is a matter that we should be concerned about, because we have to act on these kinds of issues. And we have to make our economy an economy with more competitive companies and companies with greater technological intensity. Here we have indices that are telling us that evolution is very negative, and in all this they also affect public policies, and public policies that have been done, for example, in the area of R & D+i, where Galicia, after its government, has an investment that is now smaller in this area than what was done in 2008. Galicia invests in the field of R & D+i by 0.97% of GDP, which is far from 1.96% of Basque or 3.13% of Germany. I think we have to aspire to put ourselves in the head and not in the tail, as you put us in. This situation also makes it not only that companies have been greatly reduced in the field of innovation -- half of what we had before they arrived in the government -- but also that there is a lack of talent which is very important and which is a loss in economic terms, but also in terms of the future of the country, which should be one of the main concerns you have. We know it's not like that. In any case, we propose again that there needs to be a Greek pact for science and innovation, and we also have amendments that go in that direction, to strengthen the Greek research system, to improve the labor and wage conditions of our researchers and researchers and to make this a central element of development. Or with proposals like a talent retention and capture program that follows the star of what has already been done elsewhere and works, and the references are very clear both in Euskadi and Catalonia so that we learn what others do well. I believe that humility in politics is important and learning what others do better I think it will make us stronger as a country. That's what we do. And, of course, if something has taught us this pandemic, it's that countries that bet on knowledge, science, research, have a better response to pandemics and are economies with more resilience, and that's what we want for our country. It's over, because it's obvious that I'm running out of time and that there are many issues that haven't touched and that we're not going to be able to deal with. But there are two issues that for BNG are important and which I also want to refer to in this intervention. One is that it is actually an emergency situation, but it cannot prevent us from moving away from the agenda aspects that are important. For the BNG the feminist agenda must always be present, and we still have a serious problem of male violence in our country, which has not disappeared, but we even see how in situations where social relationships are more complicated -- as they are going to be in the shelter -- women are more vulnerable. So what we ask is that we strengthen the means to fight against macho violence. We insist on our amendments to allocate 40 million euros to combat violence that is inscrutable as a society and also that we focus on gender inequality, because greed does not affect men and women alike. We're seeing how much greater precariousness is in women and that ERTE is affecting women more at the moment; therefore, there's a greater need to suggest that these women have a chance. Ending the precariousness of those jobs that are essential in this crisis is an ethical obligation that we have as a society and, of course, we would like to see any of these amendments adopted as well. And finally, I want to pretend that we also need to strengthen our language, which is a wealth, which is not a source of conflict, and which should be a central element of our country's development, but we see how systematically it is mistreated by the budgets of the Galician Union. We propose to allocate 10 million euros to those policies that allow the Greek to have a future, because behind the future of Galicia is the future of Galicia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are other possible budgets, and I ask the People's Party not to vote against all the proposals that we have tabled since the BNG, because I believe that those who govern have the obligation to break agreements, to dialogue and to seek consensus, let alone when -- I speak for the Block -- we have expressed our will to be able to deal with those amendments in which the People's Party considers that the element of where funds are drawn is not the right thing, because I think that at a time like this, when citizenship is making such a big effort, in this Parliament we must return to them something more than the usual debate where everything is written. I think it would be important for this House today to have agreements, and of course, the will of the BNG is that there may be agreements to shield public health, to bet on a new model of care, to have budgets that reactivate the country and budgets that look after Galicia today and that think about Galicia for the future. That's our intention in presenting amendments to these budgets, and I regret that we meet with the wall of useless absolutism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On December 21st, just five weeks ago, I'll do the first debate in this plenary on the accounts for the year 2021, and now we're at the time of final approval. It is certainly a difficult time. We always want to show our solidarity with those who suffer from illness, with health professionals and with all those people -- who are many -- who are developing their work responsibly, with protection and security assurances at their workplace. And that's what we're doing today since our representative positions and I think that, regardless of the final outcome -- which, logically, will be more satisfactory for most than for the opposition minorities -- we must begin by celebrating a joint success, which is everyone's, in which I want to thank all the groups for their efforts, regardless of the dates, of the parties, of the implicit difficulties of the pandemic, by approving in this rapid margin the accounts for 2021, because, regardless of their content, the fact is that we are all working to try to bring our best proposals to recover Galicia. And we did it, in addition, with satisfaction -- that this is something that is common to all, the satisfaction -- fulfilling all the formal procedures envisaged. There were no vetoes on any amendment, there were no formal shortcuts for approval of these accounts; all the appearances were made, which were not reduced, and the representatives of the Government, of the institutional bodies, came. Recently, an important socialist senator, Manuel Cruz, wrote in the country his grief that the proceedings of the Education and Budget Act in the Senate passed quickly and without having just debate, reducing the deadlines, etc. You're talking here that we don't approve any amendments. In the Senate, 3,600 amendments were tabled and none were accepted. And, well, this also has its normal component, given the characteristics of the budget debate. But, well, the truth is, we're here today, I think with the collective success of being able to count budgets, despite the pandemic and the circumstances, because, as a spokesperson said, regardless of whether they are better or worse, there's a fact that's true, and it's good that in these circumstances there's a vigoured and adjusted budget with greater or less fortune -- we of course think that with greater -- to the current situation. Because the current situation is really dramatic. In Spain, production growth in 2020 is the worst in the advanced countries. We are falling close to 12.6 % of GDP, which also affects asymmetrically, as has been said, tourism, hospitality and also by social sectors, mainly women. This brutal contraction, fortunately, in Galicia seems to be weaker. Recently, the Galician Economic Forum, in its joint report, spoke of the fact that last year we were going to close it with 6.2% of GDP fall, which is substantially less, and, in addition, with better behaviors in internal and external demand, which falls almost four points less than the national, with spending on families that also fall three points -- almost four -- on the national, and with supply activities like professionals who fall three times less than Spanish or with manufacturing that fall half as much as Spanish. We also have a problem with unemployment. Spain is again in unemployment where it was, with a million more unemployed than at the end of 2009. We've gone from 3 to 4 million unemployed, and there's 750,000 people in ERTE. This brings us to 2013. Just as the previous growth figure took us very far behind -- in terms of GDP per capita, the GDP figure of the year 2020 goes back to the year 2000 -- on the subject of employment, which is at the worst of the previous crisis, we return to the figures of the year 2013. But again in this Galicia has a less bad behavior. The unemployment rate is 11.8; in Spain it is 16.3 -- in the last known data, public facts -- Growth, moreover, is being much higher, inter-annually, in Spain: in December in Galicia unemployment grew on 14.69 -- in inter-annual terms, which are the ones that really measure the evolution of the economy over time and therefore the full impact of the crisis -- and in Spain grew on 22.9. And even in affiliations the fall is slightly lower in Galicia: 1.7 in Galicia and 1.86 in Spain. And there's also a serious problem in the Spanish economy: the public deficit. The European Commission estimates that it is from 12 and the accounts that are being announced put on 11 -- here the fall is from 2009--. Efforts to go back to 3% already know what it cost; 3% were reached in 2018 and 2019 rose again the public deficit in Spain. We know what it costs to reduce the public deficit, which is the only way to make public debt sustainable. In 2019, it was 95 % by 2020, it will be 114 %, and the European Union estimates that it will reach 120 %. And we know, by the efforts of Maastricht, that means reducing public debt to levels such as those recommended by the European Union by 60%. Of course, we're better at this too. In the debt, in relation to the GDP of the autonomous communities, Galicia stands out. In 2009, the average of the autonomous communities represented 8.7, but today is 23.7. In Galicia, on the other hand, in 2009, it was 8.6 and now it's 17.5. In Spain, the average multiplied by three and in Galicia by two. It's a very important growth, but much smaller than that of the Spanish ensemble. In fact, in the crisis itself -- data from the Banco de España in September 2020 -- the average debt of the autonomous communities of Spain rose from 23.7 % from 2019 to 26.3 %, and in Galicia, instead, from 19 % in September 2020; 17 % to 19 %. I mean, we're seven points of GDP under the average self-debt. And the debt was maintained because the deficit was also counted. We have been practically balanced by public accounts for two years and, of course, the overall public deficit for the entire Galician period from 2010 to 2019 was 9.6, when the average of the autonomous communities is 15.58. Of 2012-2019, Galicia, 5 %; average, 9 %. So we're in a less bad situation too, because we've done things right over time, and that's exactly what gives us the greatest reaction capacity for the three tasks that we have ahead: saving the pandemic, creating jobs, speeding up growth, making the economy grow, and, in addition, one that nobody has mentioned but is important and that these accounts also make it easier, that is to have order in future accounts, because before or after, as everyone is saying, including the European Commission and some government member, we'll have to take account to adjust public spending and recover a structural balance from our accounts. The situation is less bad in all directions, and that has several causes: the impact of the crisis was better in Galicia; in the Greek economy there were fewer measures that involved reductions in production as a result of the pandemic; and, despite that, we had a management of the pandemic with data that was always better than the average of the state-wide. So, at this point, I wanted to do some review of what was said here today, before explaining -- which is what is required -- why we couldn't accept any more amendments. When speeches are long, there are certain inconsistencies; I trust that I do not have many. He said earlier the spokesperson for the Bloc -- the one who spoke in the previous round -- that the budgets this year are neoliberal; Mr. Caballero says they are an amendment to the whole because they are fundamentally Keynesians; and Mrs. Rumbo in commission and today again here said they were continuityists -- we don't know whether it's continuing neoliberalism or continuing in Keynesianism -- but, of course, budgets cannot be both neoliberal and Keynesian. This is impossible. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón also insisted on the lack of ambition for budgets, when they are the budgets that grow the most from the whole of the autonomous communities, as I will then also come back or have an opportunity to say. And besides, he asks German for help; that is, he asks that a country that made a budget management that gives him the margin to now have the capacity to respond to demands from the productive sectors... Germany, when he imposed those rules on the European Union as a whole, also Spain, was Hitler, it was a neo-Nazi imposition; however, now that they have the ability to recover, they are the example to follow, precisely because they adjusted their accounts contrary to what Spain has done for a long time. They're not the only contradictions. Mr. Knight told us that the Government of Galicia would make a mistake, when the only thing he did was to further restrict the limitations on the number and definition of the nearers, the groups of ten or the trips that could be made by Spain. Certainly, in Galicia we made more restrictions than the Government of Spain did as a general framework for Christmas. Mr. Caballero, you know perfectly well that there are highways that are of state competence, such as A-9 and others of autonomous competence, such as those that join Carballo with the Coruña. But what you didn't mention is that highways of autonomous competition this year are lowering the rates, and for the moment the highway of competition of the state, where its party governs, rises the rates. So, what you're here to say is that Junta, who lowers the rates of her highways, has to also contribute to lowering the rates of state ownership, because it's still a bit strange to see things. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, she insisted very much, in addition, on the word absolutism. I believe that there is no greater contradiction in a democratic chamber -- that, in addition, has just revalidated its results, that the people have just chosen who they want to represent -- that they call an absoluteist to a chamber and a democratic budgetary debate. Of course we analyze the amendments, and of course we dialogue; this is an exercise of dialogue, in addition to what you like, transparent and public. And the problem -- so then I'll argue -- is that for two dialogues there has to be real intention of understanding both sides. I mean, if amendments like those introduced to us by the Block are presented, which, as a commission, was recognized, were done by ideology and because they had an alternative model, because it's very difficult to find points of agreement. There is, of course, no need to give data that is not correct. Gini's Galician index improved with regard to the year 2009. That there is an obvious risk situation that inequality increases -- and we're fighting for it, so it doesn't happen -- it's obvious too, but the fact is that Gini -- the index that measures inequality -- in 2009 was 0.278 and in the last data that it released the IGE is 0.265, which is less than 0.278. I therefore believe that all these issues should, at least, be dealt with with with a little bit of rigour. And we're going to the bottom economic policy. It's true that a well-known Chicago economist -- since you call him neoliberal, although you'd have to tone it, he's an offer economist -- said that "in the trenches we're all Keynesians." He said this at the time of the great economic crisis in 2008. But, to put this appointment in context, let me start with another quote about how economic science in general evolves, something that I think we should, because of academic lust, recognize that it is how economic science evolves itself. And I'm going to read them a quote from Robert Skidelsky, who is the best-known novel by Keynes, the author of his great biography and who also published, coincided with the 2008 crisis, an update of Keynesian thought. The title of the book was Keynes' return, precisely because then much of the return to Keynesianism was talked about. What Skidelsky says is, "The political economy swings back and forth around a newtonian balance. The story looks more like a spiral staircase than a pendulum. And one of the things we've probably learned or come back to learn is that governments can fail as much as markets. A new synthesis is needed in which the Government is accepted as unbenevolent, but that does not mean that the market mechanism is completely rehabilitated." In fact, economic science is spiraling forward. Today, what are we seeing? We're seeing keynesian policies of demand stimulus, but we're also seeing neoclassical supply policies. When you tell us that we have to invest more in R & D+i, that's supply policy and hence neoclassical. Not even everything we know -- that you also know -- that, precisely, a problem that had Keynesianism was the lack of regulatory restrictions, that the European Union has resolved through the Constitution, setting limits on economic management, that is heir to the whole neo-institutional economy, to the whole economic institutionalism in the body of the constitutional economy, as we know it comes from the thought of Buchanan and Barnett. So we're at a moment of an academic synthesis of thought that translates into the proposals of action that international bodies make to us, which are all of them: first, keep the quality of life of people, don't let them be founded on businesses that would be viable in case there was no pandemic and assist those people. Second, they adapt companies to the new reality that comes. And thirdly, they make reforms, they spend on innovation, they spend on digitization and they spend on environmental sustainability. Well, that's what they're telling us in that synthesis -- that I understood a party like the socialist, which is sometimes said Social Democratic -- that the liberal Social Democratic consensus and also Christian democracy in Europe would agree. And that's basically what Europe is doing, which just increased the aid funds to Spain -- by the way, something that happened unnoticed -- and just gave it 11 billion euros more, raising the figure that we don't have to return -- that is 81,000 million, and before it was 70,000 -- The rest, of course, precisely as a result of this synthesis of scientific knowledge in the economic field, and the deliveries that will come after this first come to solve immediate problems will be conditional on reforms. Before talking about funds, we need to know first whether we are going to have them, because first Europe has to accept the reforms proposed by the Government of Spain, which is very divided about the scope of these reforms, at least on two important issues: pension system and labour market. So first we're going to make sure that this comes to Spain, and then, of course, we'll have to manage it well and do it, of course, taking into account the lessons of Keynesianism and the currency situation, at a time when many countries literally hear the flight of Friedman's helicopter and, of course, comply with the rules that prevent all this spending from being useless and getting us into much worse mess. All this -- excuse the ex-course -- was to explain that these accounts basically obey the international consensus, built with the contributions of those in the world who know more about how to manage the economy and have analyzed all the previous crises and all the capacity to act through fiscal policy, monetary policy, etc. And that's precisely why, simply because of that, it's good news that we have these budgets. These budgets increase expenditure by 14 %, 13,9 %, 1,800 million euros. We're the "Cutting of Snippets." As I've just said, who makes the budget grow 14% goes on with the cuts... well, we're going on. We are going to the maximum authorized indebtedness, 1.1 of GDP, 685 million euros. We use all the instruments available, the 685 million euros of extraordinary transfers from the state and the 400 million from the European React-Union; a total of 1,800 million euros. And in addition, we assume the parallel fall in the collection, especially in the transfers that the State makes through the 1.6 LOFCA system. Clearly, this is neither cutbacks nor neoliberalism. In addition, expenditure is eminently redistributive, four out of five euros. They say every year we say it increases. Indeed, we are increasing social spending every year since we overcome the crisis and begin to have more resources. And I gave a commission figure: that the real comparison, the 2014 budgets, the total, everything that the Board spent on investment, consumption, personnel, anywhere, was 8,500 million. Today only the financial expenditure on social services is 8,500; from 8,390 million in 2014 we went to 8,500 just social expenditure. Current expenditure amounts to 7 % and capital expenditure amounts to 53 %, to lay the foundations for future growth. Here was a discussion about the relative weight variance of the Health Council. It is said that the budget, which rises to 50 % of investments, rises in health less, grows below, 11 % of which the budget set grows. Well, this is a fallacy, because if what grows most is investments, the less-investment advisories, such as Health, which provides services with a lot of staff -- which grows, in addition, in numbers this year significantly -- certainly varies the weight; but it varies the circumstantial weight. Plus, the PSOE presents us with an amendment -- and it has been published recently -- to spend 100 million more on health care, and hence they discount 47 from the Health Council itself; therefore, what they really ask is 70 million more on health care. Well, if we apply the increase of 70 million euros in health care to the whole amendment you put in, the total expenditure of Galicia would rise to 15 % and the expenditure of the Health Council, 13 %. We increased total expenditure to 13.9 % and health expenditure to 11.6 %. As you see, the ratios are very similar if you take into account that there is more investment than current spending -- in budgets, the increase is basically investment -- and that the Health Council logically is not one of the most investors, but basically what it does is to provide services through the healthcare staff. It was also said about Health that the cuts had not been reversed. In 2008, the budget you managed, the two parliamentary groups, was 3,638 million euros; the budget for 2021 is 4,582. As a percentage of non-financial expenditure, we increased from 36 % to 39.6 % and, in relation to GDP, we increased from 6,2 % to 7,1 %. For per capita expenditure, from 1,300 to 1,700 million euros. Really, where are the cuts, because they're not? There are cuts in health expenses, of course there are. In 2008 the primary revenue was 856 million; forecast for next year is 750, and that was thanks to one of the agreements we had with the Block, that famous drug catalogue that boosted the consumption of generics. And investments, which grow by 50%, multiply by three in the state. The State reduces investment in Galicia to 11 % and Union to 53 %. Finally, I am not going to say anything about the Government of Spain, because, by the way, you can't say anything about the Government of Spain, but you can give the data that state budgets lower the investment in Galicia by 11% and the Union by 53%. The growth of budgets multiplied by seven the increase that called for opposition in its amendments last year, before the pandemic. And if we compare the growth of the budgets of Galicia with that of the other autonomous communities, we see that Valencia increases them by 11%; Balearics lowers them by 0.2%, because it does not incorporate European funds; Basque Country by 7.1%; Canary Islands by 5%; Navarra by 7%; Asturias by 10%; and Cantabria by 6%. And you don't think it's 13,9%? And they are neoliberals, budgets that are, from all over Spain, the ones that grow most, and that are the ones that grow most because they are the ones that can grow most, because they had a solid basis and a margin of indebtedness that they didn't have the other autonomous communities. Because this is another essential idea: that these budgets are better, that they grow more than those of other autonomous communities and that they are therefore more suited to the current situation by the fortress that comes from the past. And the shame is that Spain is not stronger. When German help is requested, it turns out that Germany is actually giving 75% of the billing and Spain, the Government of Spain, the only thing it does is to tell those who have rented a place, if the owner has many places, that can stop paying part of the income. That's the help the Government of Spain gives to the inn. In Germany, 75 % of billing. That has a lot to do with the previous situation and the compliance with the tax rules that all of us now seem to forget and that we will soon have to face again. There's only help in Spain when autonomous communities like Galicia are giving them. When Galicia is giving 87 million euros in general, with a specific part for the hospitality, self-employed and small businessmen, because it is doing what can be done, because there are resources and because there was good management. Current spending, in addition, is centered on social expenditure, which grows an 11.2; health increases, 400 million; Social policy, 120; Education, 67; Employment and Equality, 100. They say there's nothing specific to the pandemic more than 500 million deeps. Of course, society can be quiet! Of course I'm not wet paper! When Mr. Caballero says these budgets are wet paper, because in four weeks he changed the epidemiological situation, he betrayed the unconscious, because he believed the story that he heard from his president in Madrid that the virus was defeated. These budgets were made knowing there would be more coronavirus waves. And so they incorporate things like 500 million euros into a hidden fund. [[Applause]] What you say is, they thought as I think, that there would be no more coronaviruses. Anyway, your ability to predict about the coronavirus has already been seen by the elections. But, in any case, these budgets are fully in force, because, obviously, they are made from the perspective that, while there is no vaccine -- that you will also have to pay for and put on all the necessary procedures -- because, of course, you would have to have that included in the budgets, as in fact it is. We're with a consistent document. Obviously, there was and there is a desire for dialogue. What budget of any autonomous community in Spain has a fund of EUR 115 million -- next -- pending we agree on the Reactivation Commission so that the opposition can determine in which projects are spent, in this case, 1%? Don't you? So you tell me some other autonomous community that you intend to talk to. If it is not with the political forces, it will be through social dialogue, that there is dialogue. But at last... In addition, in fact, the capacity for dialogue comes because we have analysed the amendments, and we have done so in some detail. I know how hard it is for the opposition to take money and make amends. And I don't want to make too much blood on this issue, but obviously there are amendments that the Block presents knowing that we're not going to accept them. For example, when public employees earn 3%, when they know that state legislation marks 0.9%, and they know that we can't go up because state legislation prevents them, of course, because we can't accept it. The PSOE voted for them. There they are! Here you have to follow what Madrid says less from time to time, and then you could raise the salary by 3%, when these budgets incorporate all sub-contracted by more than 0.9% that authorizes the state. 90% of the amendments to the articulated you presented as groups -- or 90%! -- they're identical to the year 2019. The world has changed, the budgets of the Union grow more than any other in recent history and, however, 90% of the amendments to the articulate remain the same: the Block, 4 new, 34 equal; the PSOE, 8 new, 65 identical. For some there are arguments, such as what I have just said, of the impossibility of economic dialogue, and also, of course, some ideologically silent background, which rightly presents the Block and for which I ask the same right to be understanding in its rejection. You, for example, want to ban new educational concerts, or you want to eliminate the salaries of the professors of religion. Well, neither of these things has much to do with the law, but we're also convinced that, if necessary, we have to resort to educational concerts. We believe that it is necessary in a lot less than you do, because we have reduced it in relation to the time when you were ruling. But of course, we also believe that the law must be respected and that the children who want to study Catholic religion have the right to have a professor of Catholic religion. We can't accept those amendments. In many others the lawyers themselves said that the procedure was allowed, but that, if they had to accept them, they would require important changes, such as many changes in state tax regulations, which we cannot do. Other changes would imply that they would take part. They say: I take the transfer that makes the "x" tip to the instrumental entity "y", but I leave the cost of the instrumental entity "y" at the same time. There's an accounting hole in the instrumentary entity that breaks, if that amendment is accepted. If you take money from a transfer to an instrumental entity or society, you have to say where you cut the cost of that instrumental society, but you don't. That's very difficult to accept amendments. Anyway, because of the lack of time, I'm just going to mention one that makes me very funny. As you know, this board has considerably lowered the expenses of the staff of the cabinet and staff of this kind in relation to the ruling of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales, and without even deflating the figures. The Bipartite had 11.5 million for senior positions and 8.5 million for potential staff. The total reduction in these games is now 29% in the first -- in the high positions -- and 17% in the eventual staff. You want to reduce it even more, but what I'm wondering is, why do you want to reduce 100 percent of any Vice President's staff? It must be that Alfonso Rueda sees a powerful man who doesn't need any cabinet support, but instead they only get 20% out of Employment and Equality -- it must be that the advisor, as he's new, thinks he should have a little more help -- 55% from the General Media Secretariat and 47% from Social Policy. Finally, not even when downgrading figures that cannot be downgraded appear accordingly. Or when they ask for other amendments. For example, they say we don't support youth, but the Block wants to go down the games for the improvements of the youth venues. Anyway, I don't want to make blood with this, because it's true that I'd give it a lot. But what is important is to talk at least about income. No one in the opposition has talked about income today, because much of everything you're saying is that it's worth spending goes with tax subsidies that are procyclical; that is, all of Europe is lowering taxes, all of Europe: left-wing governments, coalition governments, some coalitions with far-left parties; they all come down taxes. The board doesn't lower them, it does a little bit of what's called automatic stabilizers, for example, in income tax...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u80	...and the taxes. And you're doing it up against everything Europe is doing, because it's procedural to raise taxes, as you well know. And those economic effects, in addition, would mainly affect those who would suffer from taxation, which, far from what they always say with their typical rhetorical policy, does not affect the rich, because to impose taxes on commercial surfaces, on the transport network -- from which we all pay the light -- on sugar drinks, all of which, of course, would end up affecting consumers, and not just us with more income. Finally, I believe that your amendments are either unacceptable because we cannot accept them directly, or they are going against the economic policies recommended at this time of recession and pandemic. They're against common sense and academic evidence, and they don't improve the text, because the text, counselor, we still think it's best for Galicia's current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u81	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of the groups to define about the amendments. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party does not want to see the need to strengthen, improve and reconsider budgets that are not up to what the Greeks and the Greeks need. He asked Mr. Puy what was our consideration of those budgets, whether they were Keynesians or whether they had a cutting plan. And I'm going to give you some clarifications, because, look, you have a conservative approach, with neoliberal targets, a cutting-edge approach to the public, which you have to wear in a Keynesian suit because there are some funds you didn't count on, and because there's a new paradigm that you don't adapt to. And you, Mr. Puy, today dared to quote a Nobel Prize in Economics, Robert Lucas, who in 1995 received... what? Well, I think we're all Keynesians in the trenches, and it's a sample of how you refer to that approach in which Robert Lucas -- which you didn't mention, but what you referred to -- transferred that the problem of depression was solved -- he said in 2003-- [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Robert Lucas, who is his economic model, suggested, when he came here to Spain that "it was necessary to take a step back in the state of well-being." [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And even last year Robert Lucas said, "There's zero chance there's a recession in the United States." That's the neoliberal model; it's the neoliberal model that you brought here today in this forum, and it showed the subconscious of what the People's Party thinks right here in Galicia, which has to put on a suit of public spending, but which is alarming and referring to that suggestion that in the trenches we're all Keynesians to say that you have to adapt to a thought and a way of doing politics in which you don't believe, which is that of the impulse of the public, the defense of the welfare state or the rescue of the most affected sectors. How do you bring that neoliberal paradigm here? To justify some budgets in which there's most expenditure. Because there is a progressive government in Spain that, through its negotiation in Europe and through state budgets, will enable the budgets of the Union to increase by more than 1,100 million euros in 2021, not because there is a good economic management of the Galician Union, not because there is a capacity to have a more powerful Union from the People's Party, but because there is a government in Spain that wants to protect people from the crisis of greater silence and put funds in place so that autonomous administrations can protect people. [[Applause]] That's reality, and that's what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Puy, because you put on a Keynesian suit with something you can't wear, you can't carry, you can't program. And they bring some budgets today that they have no project, that they are not suitable for the country's difficulties. Yesterday, you put a lock on thousands of businesses in the hospitality, commerce, culture, sports, which will be completely closed or in certain hours and days by the measures taken since the Government of the Union, which, if they are to protect health, have, of course, our consent and we assume... yes, Mrs. Prado, yes. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] But where do you put an economic defense response to those sectors? Where is the People's Party telling so many thousands of business today that they don't know how these next three weeks are going to be? Where are the funds to help them? So far we are debating the issues of the most affected sectors, from the rescue to the inn; today we have to put in this Chamber the urgency of the rescue, not only to the inn, but to the inn, but also to the rescue to trade in the country, from the rescue to culture, from the rescue to sport, where they have already put a lock-up. And the intervention of the People's Party doesn't fix it. The People's Party in Galicia is overcome by the crisis, it's overcome, with the arms crossed, with no capacity for action. I understand Mr. Puy tells us they had already planned there would be more waves. But if the argument was that Christmas was to be saved and therefore everything was planned on that matter! Were you already planning that wave that was going to be given and therefore not proposed in the budgets or anywhere? These are unplanned budgets, and you prefer to patch up bad budgets, patch up public accounts that try to adjust income levels of spending, but they don't have a plan to reactivate the economy. Dialogue failed, we have to tell you. Where has the dialogue and proposal of the People's Party been during all this time? How did you reject the 570 amendments to the Socialist Party's spending? Wasn't there a valid one? When did we propose to increase the spending on health personnel? When did we propose 62 million more for the hotel? When do we put another 100 million euros for the municipalities, doesn't it? I do tell you, Mr. Puy, that the amendments of the Socialist Party are feasible amendments, because we may have budgets, but we have country plans. And we know what we want to do to rescue our country: we don't write accounts like stories, we deal with model, project, commitment, what you don't do. [[Applause]] You, Mr. Puy, suggest that what are the amendments we have to take forward. Well, I mean, there's a lot of ways that they're better. You see, in the environment, you have an écoposture. For example, in 2009 we were budgeted in Galicia 295 million euros in environmental projects and are now reduced to 200 million. And if we talk about youth or rural population fixation games, they reduce the terms of those games in the most expansive budgets. They don't have a budget commitment to youth, they cut funds to the municipalities. You don't have a priority, because you've found a lot of funds that you can't manage. They have no prediction of how to use them to revive the country's economy. And the Greeks and the Greeks are seeing how they are abandoned by that policy of the Popular Party's patching instead of the policy of making the Keynesian suit enable people to be saved, to protect people, to strengthen the state of well-being. Today these budgets are a missed opportunity, a missed opportunity where the People's Party's knee does not bring a better situation. And you had to correct them. Look, they change the way they deal with this crisis, they reconsider the budgets, they take forward a strengthening of the welfare state, they rescue the affected sectors, they coordinate reactivation to generate jobs. Because employment is the biggest suspension of the People's Party governments in eleven years of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Mr. Puy, Galicia is in no better employment than the rest of Spain. Galicia is in no better position than other communities. You fool with that speech. Because the day in Galicia you're only retired, you'll say there's no unemployed person. But there are no people in the country who can work. And with your balance they'll be applauding that model. [[Applause]] It's just that we have to generate jobs. And with these budgets I would like you to explain to us where is the industrial project to develop Ferrolterra, where is the rural environment project to accompany Galicia, where is the project to regenerate Galicia's rivers and allow them to be converted into a development factor, where is the bet on public services, for increasing staff in public health, for improving the tracking system, for updating a vaccination plan. They still don't explain what happened to the 200 irregularly placed vaccines in Pontevedra -- or they're already coming up with the Health Counsellor or you'll have to assume responsibilities, as happened in other places in Spain, by the traps of the vaccinations at this time --. No, I know that Mrs. Prado seems normal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Prado, it seems normal that 200 vaccines were placed irregularly in Pontevedra. She may doubt that no vaccines will arrive in Spain but they can put the vaccines to whoever they want and don't explain it. That's the PP model, that of marriage, that of Tellado, that of Feijóo, that of Prado, not the model we want for everyone. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Strong murmurers.]] But put the advisors to work! [[Strong murmurers.]] I know they get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u83	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u84	Now the Infrastructure Advisor is no longer here because he heard that the Government of Spain is going to put 62 million euros to lower the AP-9 fee. And it's just, when we pay the fee, we see the face of Aznar and Feijóo, who extended it until 2048. Where's the advisor? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Have you ever announced that in the board budgets you're going to play a game to reduce the AP-9 fees? I understand that the discomfort of hearing reality makes the People's Party nervous. [[Murmurs.]] But, PP gentlemen, Galicia is much more than PP! [[Strong murmurers.]] And we have to talk to the Greeks and the Greeks, because most absolutes give the possibility of government to Feijóo and so many rulers -- from Trump to so many leaders -- but they don't give the reason. [[Applause]] They're not right! Get off the pedestal, gentlemen, get off the pedestal! [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] I know that PP makes this very nervous and it boils blood when you hear the realities. But you have to settle down. You're quiet and make good budgets. Tell those thousands of shops to close today, the thousands of hosts who are no longer working, the thousands of sports and culture workers, the help they're going to give them. Because they're going to be closed this weekend and they don't have a euro to be able to resist these expansive budgets that have forgotten them. Stop talking and do some good stories! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are going to vote on those approaches that allow us to make budgets available to the Greeks and the Greeks to protect the country from the greatest crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u86	And we want to ask them, in addition to not admitting any of the 570 amendments to the Socialist Party's spending, to get off the pedestal and leave the knee, because this crisis will be painful for everyone. And the success of the Government of Galicia is the success for all the Greeks and the Greeks. We have a different, progressive approach to public support, struggle against inequality, rescue from the most affected productive tissue, reactivation of science, innovation, modernization... and we hope that you will be permeable to improve everything that doesn't do well. In any case, you have the confidence and assurance that you will count on all measures of restraint with the loyalty of the Socialist Party of Galicia, but also with hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u88	...that, with budgets that are empty, the country can resist patching them up and changing them into games that are no longer worth -- some of the immediate promotion of Xacobeo that are not viable --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u89	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u90	...and make it possible for this crisis to have a collective response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u92	They will continue to count on the tendency of the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u93	For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u94	Well, good day again. The fact is that Mr Puy's intervention, at the bottom, without delay, is the best example of how difficult it is to defend these budgets. And I say this because, of course, you have to go to political theory, to appointments, appointments, and dates, because it's much better to talk about theory than concrete, which are the real problems that these budgets have in order to be able to cope with the situation. I think it's the biggest sample of weakness. [[Applause]] In any case, you have created here a new theory. I don't know if this is about "new normalcy" because we also now have a new normality in which normal in Parliament, in the budgetary debate, is that no single amendment is adopted. That's the normalness of PP! Then, of course, he criticizes or feels bad that I'm talking about an absolutist approach. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, you're using your absolute majority with absolutist dyes. Because they don't want to talk, they don't want to wake up, they don't accept anything that doesn't come from the People's Party. They're, yes, in their comfort bubble. But the big thing is, this speech you have here isn't able to keep you in the street. Because you can't go next door to a hostess or a hostess that's been carrying on all last year with a critical situation and what you see is that Galicia was from the last communities to launch direct help. Yes, yes, Mr. Rueda, when other communities go along the second line of direct aid here, we continue to see that the only thing you put on the table for the hostel sector with specific aids is an order of 22 million euros, far below what other autonomous communities have put on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the reality, Mr. Rueda, you're as good as you are. And since you don't talk, what you're coming here is unique and exclusively parapeting, actually, and telling us that these budgets are the only possible budgets. And it's not true. There is another way we can focus on budgets and we regret that they have no willingness to dialogue or to wake up in the midst of a crisis and a pandemic that leads to a situation that is really worrying. And, of course, here they go back to old theories, too. Now we're in the theory that the cuts didn't exist. The PP said, "Where are the cuts?" Well, I'll tell you. Look, there were 2,000 million euros of accumulated cut in primary care, 1,700 in employment, 1,700 in education... and we can go on with very important games, from housing policies to language normalization policies. In all areas over these twelve years there have been major cuts that have deteriorated public services. And the worst thing is that they've damaged health, and today we have exhausted professionals in the middle of a pandemic. So they don't deny reality and start -- I think -- working with a little bit more realism. Because it's true that the Greek economy falls less than the average state. Well, what's the problem we have -- and they're saying it to the experts themselves --? It's only then that recovery is slower. And the thing is, when we look at how we came out of the previous crisis, what we see is that we go out with less employment, more inequality and with a country that has huge problems of territorial and social inequality. And instead of wanting to act, you're telling us everything's okay. They don't care that people continue to emigrate, they don't worry that we have problems in strategic areas, because they don't really put solutions. However, Mr. Puy, to me, said two things that are the most serious. The first one is that you already knew the third wave was coming. They knew there was a third wave that was going to be very serious and they didn't do anything to prevent it. His plan was to save Christmas, and we see where he led us. It took twenty-five days to take action when we were taking over the last few weeks with more than a thousand daily contagions. This is irresponsible! [[Applause]] Because a government, if you know it's going to happen, anticipates and prevents us from being in this situation. [[Applause]] The second is that he recognizes that these will be the only expansive budgets and that after 2021 the cuts will come. And we want them to tell us where they're going to cut off and, above all, if they're going to do something so that that's not the stage where we work the Greeks and the Greeks in the future. Because there's a capacity for that not to be the scenario; for example, by putting on the table a new financing model that really finances the needs of our country. Because I want to remind you that what we have today, this financing system that Mr Feijóo has signed, is a discriminatory system for our country. We are seeing it with these budgets, because at a time when the State has a record of funding, the way in which we have the ordinary system is smaller than the previous year. So we have a problem. And the serious thing is that this funding system has been out of date for six years, and you didn't even put forward a proposal here, nor did you claim a new funding system in Madrid. So you act in that area. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And they also act so that we have a fairer taxation. Because it's funny how some proposals go away, and just, besides, now -- that I think it's a brutal mistake --. Why are you against being able to set in motion a tax that exacerbates large surfaces to support small trade? Right now, in the midst of this crisis, it was the most important of these measures. No, no, you're what they're doing is decreeing covert closures without help for those sectors and they don't want to use the capacity -- reduced but there is -- of our self-government so we can have more resources for our country's service. You'll have to explain that contradiction to us, and of course you'll also have to explain where they want to cut. Because Mr. Puy doesn't tell us if he agrees to cut the pensions. Your model is to cut the pensions? Yes, yes, you'll have to say it, because you insinuate, act and say there must be cuts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Will the People's Party defend more cuts in the pensions of the Greeks and the Greeks? I'm telling you BNG isn't. They're going to have to face us, because what we need is to strengthen the Welsh pensions, which are the second lowest in the state. [[Applause]] In any case, I regret that, at this point, we see that, in the midst of the greatest economic crisis in recent years -- in which we have a health worrying situation, socially worrying and economically worrying -- the PP response is that it has nothing to negotiate and nothing to agree with in this Parliament. And you will vote "no" to more public health resources; you will vote "no" to which we have a contingency plan that allows us, while we have this pandemic, there are sufficient means to meet other health needs; you will vote "no" to which we put on table 80 million euros for a rescue of the sectors that are currently affected by restrictions; you will vote "no" to a new model of care; you will vote "no", ultimately, to all of the proposals that we have tabled since the opposition. Of course, I'm sorry that this is the conception that you have of democracy. I'm sorry that this is the conception that you have of the dialogue, and that we start a legislation -- at one point, in addition, in which society is asking us to hear the situation so difficult that it has -- with a government that actually acts with the automatic pilot of absolutism and that goes on the knee again in this Parliament, without margin for dialogue and for agreement. I think it's a shame, especially for Galicia and the people who expect something more of politics at a time as serious as the current one. In any case, the BNG will continue to raise its shoulder so that this country will move forward. I'm really sorry, because I think it's a bad way to start this session period that the PP response is to vote 505 times "no" to each and every BNG proposal. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think if there was a curious and neutral observer watching us, it would say that the oppositions in this House are still, each one, a different model. Mr. Knight doesn't listen and says what he intended to say. Say what he said before he did. And Mrs. Pontón what she does is to say that what she spoke before she said what she did not say. So that makes debate and discussion very difficult. Mr. Knight didn't pay attention to me, because, to begin with, I didn't talk about Robert Lucas, I spoke about Robert Barro. You know perfectly well that Robert Barro is an important macro-economicist who made contributions about asymmetric information, about cycles, about economic growth in the neoclassical-Keynesian synthesis... so I didn't talk about Robert Lucas. You insisted that it was who said the phrase I quoted from Robert Barro. And, just as you didn't hear well who I was quoting, if you'd listened to me well, you'd see that my speech was to explain -- there I was too optimistic -- another academic of the economy and that these budgets are perfectly adjusted to the great international consensus on what to do with the public accounts: spending on sustaining the economy and preparing the economy for the changes that come, mainly in the field of digitization, of conservation of the environment and also in supporting and improving the efficiency of public services. Well, this is a European consensus, it is a consensus that we shared and I thought you shared. But, of course, you came here again to say what it isn't and that the figures themselves lie. We are adjusting the spending to the maximum that its government authorizes us in terms of deficit, in terms of the use of resources that Madrid -- the State -- refers to the Autonomous Community. How can you say we're neoliberal when we're going for the expense you give us, that you're conditioning us? And neither do you decide, since it's Europe's. And I hope it's always Europe's when they start sharing the funds. That's what we're going to have to talk about in the future with a lot of scope, it's not going to be that we want to spend more -- you call it Keynesian or whatever -- and it turns out that it's Madrid that cuts our spending capacity by distributing European funds as it seems to start distributing them. So don't listen, 'cause I'm telling you it's not like that. He's talking about stories and stories. Look, there's a body that decides when the accounts are plausible or not, which is called AIREF. It's an independent body and I suppose you'll share that it's a body to which you have to pay attention. AIREF said that the state accounts were not credible -- their -- and said that the board accounts, which we are approving today, were credible because the macroeconomic scenario was well-defined. So you say this is stories -- when the stories are there -- and here's what there are accounts, because AIREF itself says they're well-made accounts. Well, what do you want me to say? [[Applause]] Speaking of Ferrol, you missed a Ferrol recovery plan. I'm missing what's going on is a plan that stops the Ferrol destruction plan that some of them have, because they're closing The Bridges, because they're closing Gamesa and because they don't burden the Ironrol shipyards. That's a deindustrialization plan, and that's what we have to stop. Man, please come here to blame the board for what's going on in Ferrol, when all companies are marching or missing investments for other reasons -- as you well know -- that they have more to do with the Government of Spain than with any other government, it's still... [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón says I said things I didn't say. To begin with, he says that the Union does not have an economic model. I explain the economic model -- excuse me if with certain pedantry and academic appointments -- and it turns out now the problem is that not under concrete. Well, then there's an economic model, and if you want, we go down to the concrete right away. Of course, we can go to the street. The vice president of the Government is meeting every day with the representatives of the hospitality sector. In addition, you have to congratulate him because he put in place aid to the hostel -- more or less around 40 million euros already charged -- which are probably the highest, if not the highest, in Spain. Direct help, direct help to the hostel! So what's not worth is walking all day saying that we have to close everything, that everyone's confined, and then saying that this government, when it closes, does not take action. [[Applause]] We must also be at that a little congruent and say here what is said in the street. That's what we should all do. He said I knew a third wave was coming. Let's see!, I hear more people than Mr. Simón, who ten days ago said that the English virus was only going to be anecdotal in Spain and yesterday or earlier he said he was going to be dominant in a short time. Anyone who reads a little bit and talks to some scientist, or just read the reports that the technicians sent us when the election date had to be decided, knows that these waves, until there's a vaccine and we're all protected, are constant. There were three models: that the next wave was lower, that there was a succession of similar waves and another -- that, by the way, it was the Spanish flu -- that said the first wave would be tough but that the second wave would be worse. So this government -- from the very first moment advised by scientists whose names are known and who meet every week at least twice -- of course I knew that a second wave could come, a third wave, and that a fourth wave could come. Then you say that I knew that a third wave was coming. Well, I have the knowledge that everyone has that advises themselves with who knows about this, because until we're all vaccinated, of course, there's going to be waves. He obviously also said that I'm in favour of lowering pensions. No, my party has always been in favour of the sustainability of the public pension system through the Toledo Pact. There's no question about it. And on autonomous financing my party has always defended the same thing: that public spending is financed according to the actual cost of providing such public services in every part of the territory. What we have never defended was a coupon, a coupon with which, with the collapse of the GDP of the autonomous communities, Galicia would have problems financing public spending if it was not enough to be for European aid and for the financing system, which, without being optimal, would certainly also contribute to redistribution. He says we're going to vote on his amendments. Well, I thought these arguments were only used by PSOE in Madrid. You're going to vote that not at all: you're going to vote that not at the rate of 0.9% for the officials, you're going to vote that not at the extra cost of 1,500 million, you're going to vote that not at the Covid Fund of 500 million... In the end, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to approve the highest budget in Galicia's history, with 11,563 million euros. It grows by 14%. In no other autonomous community will grow so much. We have the highest social expenditure and the highest level of investment in our history. We have a clearly focused budget on three very defined objectives: for economic recovery, for helping families and businesses to stand up to the tidal pull of the pandemic until it's past and to lay the foundations for solving the challenges of the future -- digitization, the environment, etc. -- on the line of what marks the European Union. We have some budgets -- which we are going to approve today -- prudent and realistic, far from improvisation and lack of economic foundation that, as AIREF said, have other budgets, like those of the state. They are supported with exceptional revenues of 1,800 million thanks to the exceptional transfers from the state of European funds and to which we have increased the public deficit on the margins that allow us. He resorts to responsible indebtedness. Interests fall, for the first time in twenty-five years, of 100 million euros, and, in addition, it is a debt which leads to the fact that every Greek today owes 2,000 euros less per capita than the average of any other Spanish. Furthermore, they do not raise taxes, in line with the recommendations of the international and Community monetary authorities. They don't go up to people or businesses, and they don't put in savings of 472 million euros through deductions of a markedly social nature. We keep tax cuts in the IRPF, in the succession tax, in the "zero taxes" strategy in rural areas, and we give incentives to the birth of the highest in Spain. They are also responsible budgets, which freeze the government's salary but maintain the rise and commitments to the sectoral remuneration agreements of public employees. And they have new instruments. They say they're continuityists, but there's a 500 million Covid Fund, 430 million of REACT-EU funds, there's 115 million of a consensus fund -- and they keep saying we don't want to talk -- there's a 105 million fund for health infrastructures, and in addition, these resources are backed up for the entire legislation. It's a social budget -- four out of five euros goes to health, education, social policy and employment -- and it's an in line budget for the future and the reforms that we're going to carry out together and with the rest of the autonomous communities and the countries of the European Union. Today, more than ever, we see the correctness of those who have always been in favour of the European Union and not of those who have been on some occasion or on many occasions against it. But, of course, there are many challenges to the future. I insist on the funds, there is uncertainty about the distribution and we have to deal with the choice of projects. And there are many changes ahead -- digitization, the environment, the public sector -- and we need to promote productive projects for the new market, for the new world. We certainly count on the support of the European institutions, and we hope that with the Government of Spain as well and, above all, with the support of the people of Galicia, which I have no doubt that these budgets will have a greater impact on overcoming this terrible crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u97	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Mr. Knight Miguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Knight, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u98	For an inaccurateness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u99	Because of his inaccurateness? To correct it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u100	Can I do it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u101	If it's because of your inaccurateness, yes. If it's for that, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u102	It's just to correct an inaccurateness of the spokesperson for the Popular Party Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u103	No, no, then no, Mr. Knight. You have the word if it's to correct an inaccurateness of yours. If you haven't been in the debate, that's correct with another debate. Thank you. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] No, thank you, Mr. Knight, thank you. You don't have the floor. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Gentlemen, you don't have the floor. They're not listening, you don't have the word. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] It's over. They're not listening. You don't have the floor. Mr. Knight, I don't want to call you in order, please. It's over. We don't understand anything, but it's the same. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. [[Laughter and murmuring.]] Well, let's vote. Opinion on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u104	Let's get started. I ask you to pay attention because this is a vote that, as you know, has its complexity. And then we'll try to see if we can solve it as soon as possible. Voting of amendments to the articulated
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u105	We begin by voting together on the amendments made by each parliamentary group to the articulated. Joint vote on the amendments of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the articulation of the Ditam, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021 (amendments Nos. 1,3 to 18; 20 to 24; 26 to 28; 31 to 58, and 60 to 72). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Joint vote on G.P.'s amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block to the Ditam articulated, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021 (amendments Nos. 1 to 31 and 33 to 38). The voting was as follows: votes in favour 33; against 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for amendments to sections and instrumental public entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u106	We now continue with the joint vote on the amendments by each of the groups to the sections and to the instrumental public entities. Joint vote of the amendments of the Socialists of Galicia to sections and to instrumental public entities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u107	We are now voting on amendments by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group with regard to requests separately. In particular, the Socialist Parliamentary Group requests that Amendment No 76 be voted on separately in section 07: Business Council and Public Administration. We therefore vote on this amendment. Vote for Amendment No 76 by G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, section 07: Conseilería de Asserda e Administración Pública. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u108	We now vote on Amendments Nos 253 to 258, 260 to 263, 265 to 283, 287 to 294, 297 to 305, 307 to 309, 317, 318, 326, 327, 344 to 352 -- all of them from the Galician Health Service --. Voting of Amendments Nos. 253 to 258, 260 to 263, 265 to 283, 287 to 294, 297 to 305, 307 to 309, 317, 318, 326, 327, 344 to 352, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, to the Galician Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u109	Let us now vote on Amendments 354, 355 and 357 to Section 13. Counsellor for Social Policy Vote of Amendments 354, 355 and 357 by G.P. of the Nationalist Block, in Section 13: Counsellor for Social Policy The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u110	We now vote on Amendments Nos 159 to 245 to Section 10: Culture, Education and University. Voting of Amendments Nos. 159 to 245, G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, section 10: Councillory of Culture, Education and University. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u111	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Álvarez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u112	We asked for a separate vote on the pending amendments to the Galician Health Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u113	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u114	The separate vote on the pending amendments to the Galician Health Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u115	But we've voted for them. [[Pause.]] I got it. Now I understand. Now it would be appropriate to vote on the remaining amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and you want to separate the amendments from the Galician Health Service. We therefore vote on the pending amendments to the Galician Health Service in the first place. Voting G.P.'s amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galego Health Service, except those previously voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u116	And we voted for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of amendments by G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to instrumental sections and public entities other than those previously voted separately. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting of the articulated text, with the amendments incorporated, if applicable
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u117	We now put to the vote the articulated text of the Commission's opinion with the amendments incorporated, if that is the case. Voting of the articulated text of the Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2021 with the amendments incorporated, if any. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. Consequently, the articulated text of the dictation is adopted. Joint voting of the budgets of all sections and instrumental public entities, with the amendments incorporated, if any.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u118	We continue with the votes. It is now up to jointly vote on the budgets of all sections and instrumental public entities. Both groups, both the PSOE Parliamentary Group and the BNG Parliamentary Group, were asked to separate the sections in particular from the Galician Parliament, the Council of Auditors, the Council of Culture and the Galician Consultative Council. Do we agree? [[Affirmation.]] Joint vote on the budgets of sections 01, 02, 03 and 20: Galician Parliament, Council of Auditors, Galician Council of Culture and Galician Consultative Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u119	We are now voting separately on the budgets of the Galician Economic and Social Council and the Labour Relations Council. Vote for the budgets of the Galician Economic and Social Council and the Labour Relations Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. The budgets of these entities are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u120	And now we are also voting together on the budgets of the other sections and instrumental public entities. Joint voting of the budgets of all sections and instrumental public entities, with the amendments accepted, where appropriate, except those of the sections and entities previously voted separately. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections and entities are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG020.u121	This vote was therefore taken and the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2021 were adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We close this session and continue.
