ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No absences or delegations of vote have been justified. As a preliminary point, we proceed to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia's autonomy of the new Mrs Noelia Otero Lago. The procedure: we shall do all that in accordance with Article 71.3 of the Regulation. And I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galician autonomy of the new Member. The formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question we're going to ask from this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Noelia Otero Lago, do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u3	Thank you. Yes, once the promise is made, you acquire the full condition of the honourable Member. Welcome to this House. [[Applause]] We got the quorum back. You know, let's go to the precinct. [[Pause.]] Let's start with the legislative texts. Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u4	Mrs Prado del Río speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u5	Thank you, President. "Give me a nut picture, give me a pack..." Most of us sitting here don't know the meaning of these expressions. I have a son and a teenage daughter and I recognize that, even though some expressions that you use end up deducting what they mean, many others don't know their meaning. We're in the era of restorative words, of dreaming of our crush, of stalking, of playing for the lucky Fortnight, you look bad to leave them in sight and it's a drama that leaves them in chat. Tilo or so are expressions from which, if we don't understand the meaning, we're real boomers. Boomers don't understand the meaning of many of these words and many of these expressions, but if they tell us that "show me a nudity photo" means "show me a naked picture" or "show me a pack" means "show me a picture in your underwear," if we're able to see how dangerous these actions are, the danger that involves asking for that picture, and much more the risks that it entails sending it, since whoever sends that picture ends up losing control over it and never knows where it's going to end; and, what's more dangerous, if that photo is going to serve as a blackmail tool by the receiver of it. New forms of digital communication and mobile devices make it possible for immediate interaction between people and can greatly improve our lives, but they can also become an instrument for winning, harming or delinquenting and, which is much worse, destroying a person's life. And within cybercrime stand out those who provoke gender violence, because, with the help of anonymity, accessibility, immediacy and virality, there is also a false understanding of what freedom of expression is. And all of this favors the conduct of those who intend to exercise control, control, abuse or abuse over women. Crimes such as cyberbullying, sextorsion, grooming, usurpation of identity, usurpation of keys or passwords, sexting, revenge of porn or pornography, are some of the most frequent actions among younger people, where victims are mostly women and mainly adolescents, which increases their vulnerability. And what's most worrying is that in many cases these behaviors have normalized. Many girls don't perceive as violence against women, as violence against themselves. The Internet, social networks, mobile applications are spaces where many forms of violence appear: the sending of sexual content humiliating, the spreading of rumors and bubbles, harassment or control have great amplitude in these spaces, and teenagers are the protagonists on countless occasions. Well, this bill has a triple objective: firstly, it is essential to describe the delicious conduct; secondly, to raise awareness of the dangers of these practices; and, thirdly, to put in place public policies and prevention measures to prevent these from occurring. The conduct we speak of has a social basis that influences the violence that our younger women suffer, the social pressure that they live on their bodies, sexist stereotypes and beliefs about sexuality, which blames them for what happens in sexual relations, and normalization of control in their relationships. And so you have to add that the networks are public spaces and hijackers that multiply the adverse effects of violence on women. The permanence: everything you publish is recorded and can be played on numerous occasions, and you can share an infinite number of times. Intimacy: networks do not allow privacy for secrets or intimate situations, everything that is shared remains in other people's hands, the control is lost. And why do I say teenage girls are more vulnerable to digital violence? Because adolescence is a stage of crisis, of change, of search for identity, of references, where the need for belonging and recognition of the group is vital. And on the networks they find their comfortable space, they find people of their age to relate to, and that's why it's essential for them to be there. They're at a stage in their life where they need to experience new situations, new sensations, risking, testing... and that can lead them to expose feelings impulsively and even to live conflict situations or differences with other people in an explosive way. The need for social valuation can lead to the younger ones exposing themselves in many pictures with the aim of getting the greatest number of "likes" in order to feel value and self-esteem, and that causes some sort of attachment. But that can't lead us to prejudice them or to blame them, we have to understand that networks connect with their need to be in the world. But still that world is very sexist. Because there are beliefs and stereotypes that identify differentiated behaviors and roles for boys and girls. And social pressure to women is still very present in the media: in the media, in television, in the movies, in the TV series, in the video games, in music, in fashion, in advertising. They keep sending messages to girls that "you're worth more if you're sexier," and the idealizations of love, couple relationships can also lead to dependent relationships where control is normalized and justified as a form of love. There is a confluence of traditional reference models along with modern and different practices that make girls unclear or perceive violence as such. We are aware that administrations are working in this direction, and I'm going to give them an example: Galician Union is working in the field of prevention and awareness, a program called Cybermanagers for equality, which has as its main objective the primary objective to train the ESO student so that they become active agents for the awareness and promotion of gender equality in the digital and ICT context through educational action towards younger students. I mean, the ESO student becomes a fifth or sixth primary student educator. There are several studies that give us data and information about what's going on. For example, there is a study entitled The motivations to sexting of Galician teenagers and teenagers, by Patricia Rubia, Yolanda Castro, María Fernández and Rosana Román, from the University of Vigo, not that alarming data on this matter are evidenced. For example, both boys and girls consider it to be the girls who have the sixth most: to keep another person's attention or interest, 46.1%; because someone pressured them to send them, 67%; to keep another person's attention or interest, 46.1%; as a sexy gift for a bridegroom, 54.3%; to feel sex, 54.4%; to get someone to like 38.2%; to have fun or flirt, 37.9%; to respond to a content of this type they had previously received, 37.3%. The reasons for the boys are different: they believe that the pressure of friends, 49.9 %; they get the same from the other person, 58.6%; or to be denoted, 46.2 %. These are the reasons that boys and girls have to a greater extent for what they call sexting. So these are questions that have to lead us to reflect on if we're doing something wrong because, in a mega-connected world, where youth can find information at a click, what might fail to get the risk information of these behaviors to arrive properly at the whole youth and we meet with such responses? And what's more serious is that in many cases they're not aware that they're suffering some kind of violence or abuse. There's also another study, a research work by the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, which is the cybercrazy as a way of exercising gender violence in youth. A risk to the information society and knowledge. He has a wide research study that makes a journey through the different behaviors that cover cyber-acoustics, the definition, the incidence figures... a magnificent fieldwork and arrives at conclusions that must help us shape this bill that we present today. The state pact. The report of the subcommittee created for the development of a state pact on gender-based violence of 2017 had already included in its diagnosis that technological advances allow aggressors to access new ways and means of control that must be fought through timely legal reforms. It cited, the state pact, the State Attorney General's Report of 2016 on the need for attention to the issue of digital gender violence, especially among adolescents and young people, because social networks are the main means of communication between them and this instrument has shown that it is very useful to control, monitor, pressure or depress a person, taking advantage of the anonymity and great impact it has on the network. So, we also have appearances like that of the Director General of Relations with the Administration of Justice, which referred to crimes against gender violence committed on social networks, showing their concern at the large amount of content that draws a scenario where instead of moving forward we seem to retreat. And it considered it essential and essential to train on these issues young and younger girls, parents, mothers and educators; and with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups. And with regard to the digital field, I thought it was necessary to improve the definition of crimes. It's true that the legislation adopted in 2015 has advanced on this land -- sexting, harassment -- but there was still a lot to do. He made a concrete reference to the subject of the subplantation of the victim's identity by the batterer, even to offer his sexual services on the network, just as he considered it essential to raise awareness on this matter to professional people, so that they could prove these crimes and be aware of their effect on the victim. The director of the Friends Screens entity also spoke of two types of gender-based violence in the digital field: psychological violence, which uses control and isolation strategies, and sexual violence, which usually occurs in sextorsion or in the unconsensual publication of intimate images, the so-called pornovenganza. And they completed these subcommittee work in a report on proposals for action. And number 91, in particular, was to perfect the definition of crimes in the digital field. Four years have passed since the adoption of the State covenant and it has not yet been legislated in this sense. Even though every day we observe in the press how these conducts grow, the Government of Spain has done nothing to promote a legislative change. Recently, on 16 March this year, in his presence in the Commission to monitor and evaluate the State Covenant agreements on gender violence, the president of the Observatory against Domestic Violence and Gender Violence, General Council of the Judiciary, Ángeles Carmona, asked for changes in the Criminal Code to criminalize cybercrime more specifically, in the face of the number of complaints by women who suffer violence in the digital field. Carmona spoke of the difficulties to fit into a criminal type the complaints that come to court about women's violence: violence of control, threats or psychological violence through mobiles and other digital devices... and Carmona considers social networks to be cultured for the control of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, with these background, the People's Parliamentary Group considers it appropriate to work in this area, to legislate and implement public policies in order to avoid these criminal conduct. And that's why we consider it appropriate and essential to begin to describe in the Comprehensive Gender Violence Act a new form of violence against women: digital violence. It defines and combats, prevents and sensitizes society as a whole about behaviors that involve violence against women, because in many cases and, above all, in younger people, they are not even aware many times that they are victims of gender-based violence. I hope, once again, this House's consensus favours us to take one more step to end violence against women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today, as we are talking about male violence, I want to begin my intervention by showing all our solidarity and respect for the families and friends of the already 21 women murdered in the state in which it goes from year to year, victims of the male violence. [[Applause]] Our solidarity with the two minors also murdered, with that child who is still kidnapped -- not to say anything else -- and for the seven minors who were orphaned and orphaned also victims of this violence. Our solidarity and, of course, all our rejection of these macho attitudes, which we unfortunately have to live with, and also those negationist speeches that help perpetuate the machismo that unfortunately still exists in our society. And precisely that machismo, which is the source of all this violence, is also given, it's true, in the digital environment. And that's what we're dealing with here today in this bill, which seeks to recognize as another form of gender-based violence -- of so many, unfortunately -- digital violence. Digital violence is understood as all of those acts that are carried out through the use and abuse of ICTs, Internet platforms and social networks, e-mails, couriers and many others that read and adhere to women's integrity, freedom or privacy in order to exhibit, denigrate, threaten, intimidate and assault, violating their rights and, of course, hindering their normal development in all areas of their lives. I have to say, however, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has surprised us by the proposal of this bill, as long as the presentation took place when we were dealing with another about vicarous violence that affects the same articulation of the Greek Law for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence. If we had tabled it as an amendment to that legislative proposal on vicar violence, we would have shortened the procedure, since the two envisaged violences, incorporated these two, were the vicaría and the digital one, before the summer. So -- we think of ourselves -- it's losing a valuable time on a question if it's certainly urgent, especially necessary. But finally, as a group, you'll know why you don't do it like that. Of course, with the object of eradicating gender-based violence in all its forms we agree, of course, and incorporating digital violence as another form of gender-based violence, as a result of the emergence and development of new technologies. The cyberthroat -- we're going to call it that -- or digital violence in all its variants is a way, as it's said here, of limiting freedom, which generates domination and unequal relationships between men and women. Inequality always falls into the same... that 50 percent they have or have had an affective relationship. It's a domination over the victim's woman through humiliating strategies that affect privacy and privacy, in addition to the damage that her public image causes. The worrying thing is that macho violence, far from disappearing, is changing, changing over time and has a terrible ability to adapt to these new times to perpetuate control over people, in this case about women, and that's why it's necessary to move forward in new forms of protection. Information and communication technologies and new modes of communication have been invading everything, absolutely everything, and we have to be very aware of how we can exercise violence that has enormous projection and dissemination, in addition -- and it's not little -- of a sexist hate speech that continues to hurt women a lot. It's been said here, and that commission that works in the follow-up to the State Pact, those expert people who came here were talking about that in the digital field -- it's said by Mrs Prado -- there are two types of violence of digital genre: psychological and sexual. And even though cyber-crazy, or this digital violence, is based above all on a form of symbolic or psychological violence, if you want to understand this, more and more are the studies that talk about the passage of this digital violence to physics, so that some subjects -- I say subject to masculine violence -- some men, turn to action because they feel that their physical aggressions are legitimate to women or to their property, to their property. That validation through the virtual world gives the necessary push to certain men who are considered representative of a certain type of masculinity and who pass the virtual through to physical attack. These same studies also point out that women socially are much more prepared to prevent the impact and aggravation on violence -- if you mean so -- analogical or non-digital, where there are implicit codes of survival and even solidarity that are already culturally rooted. On the other hand, in digital violence, women still don't have those codes or who they are -- and this is very important too -- our support community. Having said that, we welcome the fact that the rapporteur is based on her intervention on a matter which we too are concerned about, and is that digital violence is growing and is manifesting itself in older ages. Fortunately, the answer is fast, and here we have an example, but also the Children's Law, which was recently approved in Congress, with the support of the groups present in this House, has already incorporated all this case, besides with great weight in the law, devoting much of its articulate to it. From this exponential increase in digital violence among youth, the studies that have also been mentioned here, from the University of Vigo, also from the Government's Delegation to Gender Violence, and that the latter also finds one of the causes -- and that's also going to be a question -- it's a matter to be thought about, we think -- one of their causes in a review of the maleistic behaviors between youth, and that's something that we must take very seriously. For them, for these young people, for youth, social networks are the main means of communication between them and among them. And that instrument has proved very useful, too useful to control, monitor, push or depress a person, taking advantage, in addition, of the anonymity that these networks offer and the great impact they have. So even though we consider it very necessary to recognize digital violence as a more form of macho violence, of course yes -- and already ahead of time that, of course, we are going to pass this bill -- what we would like is that the will of the People's Party in this matter, of which we do not doubt at all, was also manifested in the claim of measures that accompany this new regulatory framework, because it is well legislated, but equally it is necessary to educate and raise awareness. Mrs. Paula Prado spoke of three objectives that were intended by this law. The only thing that is contemplated -- at least for which it was introduced -- is to legislate and recognize this form as a new form of violence, recognize it. But much more needs to be done. We must, as I say, educate and raise awareness. And I have to say that in Galicia much remains to be done in this matter, despite the timid steps taken, we believe that much more will is needed. We miss a greater commitment by the German Government to raising awareness and getting to know these new forms of macho violence -- and this is the most important -- besides, by the way, very increased, because after the past months of all confinement we are now seeing its consequences. We miss, I mean, a greater conundance with this problem. In addition, accompanying this law should set in motion ambitious plans for awareness and information to identify these new figures of cybercrazy and prevent their appearance, as well as to provide recommendations and resources for getting needed help in the event that some women, if any girl, needed it. The basic rights are often violated, but we are not aware, Mrs. Prado has already said so here; we are not aware that they are also forms of violence towards women, only they are transferred to the virtual world. It is also essential and essential to have professionals in all fields -- and I am thinking, above all, in the educational field -- able to intervene more appropriately in this type of case and intervention guidelines with strict protocols. We cannot leave this matter, as it is being left on many occasions, in the hands of the ANPAs, which are quite doing in this sense. Because they are increasingly the serious cases of violence against men in the virtual realm that are prolonged over time and that the victim supports and tolerates without reporting the facts often due to ignorance, and that is what we cannot consent. Finally and finished already, if this legislative amendment, of course, but we accompany it with a clear will on the part of the Greek Government for working on information, prevention and awareness-raising in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning and welcome, though not now, to Mrs. Otero, who is also a professional companion. We are going to vote from the BNG Parliamentary Group in favour of taking this proposal into account today's debate and bringing the People's Parliamentary Group to plenary. It seems to us that it is necessary and that it improves, above all, and updates the Welsh Law of macho violence, adapting it to the present reality, already in the second decade of the 21st century, in an aspect that is key to the network, the Internet, the new technologies -- they are less and less new, you have to say -- and the violence, therefore, machist that is exercised over them. In addition, with the recommendations of both the Council of Europe and GREVIO, which is the working group that follows the degree of compliance with the Istanbul Convention, as well as the road they are already walking, it is worth redundancy, which is already going through other territories closer or less to us, as is the case of Catalonia, which has also reformed its legislation in this sense, and in others such as vicar violence, in December 2020. Making a little memory, when the Law on Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence was passed, the Welshman, in 2007, 14 years ago, there were no smartphones, smart phones, the main social networks were Tuenti and Fotolog, and the biggest conflict that existed or seemed to be the identity supplantations in cats that don't even exist today. More than a decade later, words such as Whatsapp, Telegram, Instagram, Facebook, Snapcha, Tenderer, Grinder, but also more controversial, like OnlyFans or DeepNew, are common names of mobile apps, platforms, that thousands of people use, in many cases we use all the people we are here, every day around the globe, and that have become, in addition, socialization agents so important or more than school, family or bars. That's a reality. We have to start from that base, that's a reality and it won't change or disappear, and with this I take something that Mrs Prado said in her intervention. For example, I was referring to certain expressions that are very common and very common, some of them we even use some of the people that we're here as thinking about your crush. Really, to think of your crush is to think of that platonic love that all generations have in their mind, because for centuries it has been spoken of, yes, with erotic dyes that maybe that vision of Plato's love had not. I mean, this is what we often talk about, even though the code is different. That's why I think it's important that we, as Parliament, also have a vision to address this situation without paternalism, without paternalism, and also put a lot of focus on those who commit the crime, in whom it is an aggressor, in whom it violates privacy, privacy, in whom it harasses, in whom it extorts, and not only on whom we have to identify that extortion, that coercion and that violence. We don't have a vision that maybe we've been keeping up for too long, putting a lot of focus on the victim, in the need for women to identify, detect, have self-defense mechanisms, and not so much for those who practice that violence, who are men, and we also need to interpelerate them, to talk to you as part of this reality. [[Applause]] For the past 14 years, the Greek Law has been approved for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of male violence, and over the course of this more than a decade the democratization of Internet access, the technological advances at a frenetic pace that almost turns us into boomers -- already to my generation, not only to his, Mrs Prado -- that frenetic rhythm, especially in recent years, the changes that this has generated in our daily lives, especially among the younger generations, which are already native to digital, has implications on all planes, from the construction of identities, individual and collective, to the configuration of consumption habits, behavior models or behavior. Today anonymous people, ordinary people, ordinary people, who are not an actress, or who is not a singer, or who is not a famous sportsman, exercise more influence on their daughters and children than you yourself, or your teacher. The network was from the beginning -- and yet it is -- a weapon -- we also have to have this clear -- of double gum, because, at the same time it allowed us -- and it can be a bit contradictory -- even if it allowed us to visualize, empower, project discourses and references that up to the moment were minority or minority, and that were absolutely located on the margins, allowing many voices to emerge, making us see that reality, that public opinion, that states of opinion are more diverse, that are multiple, and I am thinking about that huge sensitivity that exists, in that consciousness of gender so strong -- because it has to be said and it has to be claimed -- that there are young women today, who have no precedents with respect for a previous generation of women, and that we must also put it in value, though, obviously, we do not end up with the violence that is so strong -- because we have to say it and we have to repeat it -- that the network has also allowed the girl today, which has no longer has the time to make it happen, to enhance the ways of diversity, even to show us, to show up, to show up, to us how much sex, to what we do in terms. What is the focus of this bill -- Mrs Prado said -- : to define digital violence as a form of macho violence so that control, harassment or extortion, by setting some examples, exercised against women by the simple fact of being women, using digital tools and technologies, is considered as what it is, a more form of male violence. This is a recommendation, and it is also drawn from the explanatory statement by the European Council, GREVIO, and other institutions, other agencies, including the feminist movement and experts in the field of prevention and fighting against violence, which have warned and warned of the generalization of digital violence, especially among the younger age groups, because it is the one who uses most, though not only, an important part of those tools and platforms. Here too, let us emphasize the work that we have done, especially in the previous legislation, in the House Equality Commission, during the work that had already come from the previous legislation, and in what women who participated -- many of them women, not only -- warned here also in the Chamber of the need to analyze and work on this reality, which is not new. And I say it's not new because I think there are two elements, because we have the same violence as ever but exercised from another space, and at the same time they bloom or emerge new forms of violence. There's a violence that already existed, but it's now the clip blow, the technology that's especially used as a control tool. Before harassing, chasing, or controlling someone, he demanded an effort, to begin with, physical, because if you wanted to know where he was going, who he was with, when he was leaving the house, who he was left with, you had to displace yourself, you had to go after that person to watch her. Not today, you can exercise this control violence from the sofa in your home, with geolocation tools or applications, which you don't have to download anything either, many of them now on your smart phone, like Google maps, or just scroll, do that control, that harassment, that follow-up through social networks where we ourselves count a very important part of our lives. And we saw it, in addition, without going much further, during this pandemic. Now we're living a live vaccination process, where we all count when Sergas calls us, or when we're going to vaccinate, well, some of us still have plenty of time, but when we're going to vaccinate. Or also through other geolocation systems, or applications that are more and more common, they have more and more users, such as those applications of affective-sexual relationships such as Grinder or Tinder. But also -- I insist -- new forms of violence through the use of new technologies, Mrs. Prado, the case of grooming, that is, sexual harassment or abuse across the network. Victims are generally minor, not only children, but also children, and aggressors are adult men who sometimes go through people of the same age, or directly try, as adults, to gain the trust of the victims in order to obtain sexual content, or even abuse and assault them physically. Or sexting, or sextorsion, which is the coercion or blackmail of a person, most of the time women and even minors, through mobile applications of all kinds, threatening the dissemination or distribution of images of sexual content. Violence that can happen in couples' relationships, but not just, out of them too, in line with what our law has been in for more than ten years. And I was bringing -- just by finishing this -- two examples also more or less recent to refresh all of our memory. One of them was the violence suffered by many women from the Navy region in Maruxaina in 2019, which was the reason for an institutional statement adopted in this same plenary session in the Parliament of Galicia, referring to women who were recorded during this party through hidden cameras on a street, which were and are still hung, distributed and disseminated through websites of pornographic content, groups of pendantapps, or other platforms and social networks. But I also wanted to bring an example of sexual harassment and the use of technology for that sexual harassment, that absolute abuse of patriarchal and machist power, within the workplaces, which is the case of 32-year-old worker Veronica in Iveco, Catalonia. They'll remember: a worker from this company who ended up committing suicide after a video of sexual content was shared until he turned around in the company's staff. The company knew it, and by the way, Labour Inspectorate, in his report, decided that he was not responsible, although he did not at any time apply the prevention and intervention protocol to situations of sexual harassment. In this case, imagine, a big, huge factory where you end up exposed to your intimacy, your sexuality, your privacy through networks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u11	...Finished. Finally, we will support -- I insist -- the proposal, we will vote in favour and in the processing process, which we believe is important, we will try, as always, to enrich and improve the text. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the author group of the bill, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their support for this admission to this bill. I would also like to thank the tone. However, Mrs. Díaz, I, to see, I believe that the freedom of the groups to present bills is sovereign. Just like you, I could also ask you why the Socialist Group recently tabled a bill to amend Legislative Decree 2/2015 of February 12, when we were also processing in this House an amendment of that even legislative decree with a legislative proposal of a bill of the Nationalist Block of Wales. I believe that all groups have the right to present our bills, and, just as the Socialist Party does, so does the Popular Parliamentary Group. You say that you would also like us to work on this issue. I put an example to him, I put an example to him, and he could put many more to him, in which Junta is working to prevent gender violence and prevent these situations and to work in the field of equality, in the field of education for equality, and above all with the boys and girls of our autonomous community, who are the ones with whom we have to work primarily on these issues. We believe that legislating this issue and including digital violence as a form of violence will allow it to be introduced into all itineraries, on the training routes, not only for new people but also for professionals working in this field, it will be introduced into all awareness campaigns, in all projects, plans and other gender-based violence, because digital violence, once it is recognized as a form of gender-based violence, from there it will not be the will of the Government, which is already, but it will also be introduced, logically, so. And I would also like to see the Socialist Party's will in Madrid, Mrs. Díaz. The truth is, look, this news is from June 1st. "Geting sexual videos from a minor under intimidation is an assault, according to the Supreme." This had to be in the penal code. Four years ago, the State Covenant said that these crimes must be criminalized. The president of the Observatory on Domestic Violence, Mrs. Ángeles Carmona, said recently, the State Attorney General's continuous reports tell him constantly. So I also appeal to the Socialist Group not only to give the button of itself to admit the procedure of this bill, and also in Madrid to amend the Criminal Code and to criminalize this crime, because of the difficulties it entails, because this law will not solve all the problems. Unfortunately, in the courts this law cannot be applied in the Criminal Code, we cannot amend the Criminal Code, unfortunately. So in the courts there will continue to be difficulties for these complaints which says both the prosecutor's office and the president of the observatory, they will continue to have these difficulties. In Galicia, logically, once this legislative amendment is approved, women who suffer this kind of violence will have access to resources, tools and tools that they had no access to before because they were not recognized by law. And, Mrs. Rodil, when you talk about focusing on the batterer and not on the protection of the victim, I partially agree with you. I think you have to focus on both, you have to focus on the batterer, of course, but also on protecting the victim. I don't think it's a partner to help women who have normalized certain behaviors, help them identify them as a form of gender-based violence. I don't think he's a paternalist, I think we have to help them identify those normalized behaviors, we have to help them get out of the circle of violence, we have to equip them with resources and tools so they can get out with both psychological and legal aid, as we're doing with other victims of gender-based violence. I don't think it's incompatible with one another, nor do I -- I insist -- I think it's paternalistic. I think we have to focus on the abuser, and I think we also have to visualize the devastating effects of this kind of violence that can make life impossible for many girls, especially new ones. I focused on adolescent vulnerability because it's the worst age you can do something like this. Psychologically detoxizing and then it's very difficult to lift your head. I appreciate the support of the two groups and I want to move our satisfaction that this Parliament is able to work under the umbrella of consensus in this matter and we are able to put aside the partisan interests in the interests of women. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Next legislating text. Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is an organ to present before the Congress of Deputies, for the transfer of meteorological services based in Galicia to Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u15	For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Bará has the floor. I'll explain. It's not working the system and then it's 15 minutes. I'll check them from here, if you want, I'll let you know when there's two minutes left. Warning? I'll put it on, but, well, put it on too. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] All right, I'll let you know when you're gone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u16	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. BNG brings the debate in this plenary a proposal for a law on the transfer of meteorological services, and we bring it primarily for three reasons. The first one, to overcome the paralysis of self-government, which already lasts too long. The second one, so that each group is portrayed in this debate, it is portrayed and also -- if you want -- it's retracted, because also in this issue we all have our past. And thirdly, to put attention to a question, which is weather and climate, which is of the highest current and highest interest, increasingly of greater interest. The first reason is to overcome the 12 years of self-government paralysis, the 12 years of zero transfers to Galicia, the 12 years, the four legislatures of Faixóo as president, zero powers; Mr Feixóo would not pass the PISA Transfer Report. And it has the merit of having the worst balance in the history of autonomy, of being an example of lack of political weight and submission to the decisions that come from Madrid. There is no Greek agenda here, the only agenda is directed by Rajoy and also by Pablo Casado, and this can only be called in a way: treason to Galicia. The PPdG -- you -- and Mr. Fexóo are the public enemies number one of the German self-government. [[Applause]] And it must be said loud and clear in this Parliament: you, the PPDG, are a fraud and a scam. Why do I say I'm a fraud and a scam? Because I have arguments and reasons to say it. Because they started their first term in 2009, announcing the period of greatest self-government in Galicia's history, Mr. Faixóo said in October 2009; and we're where we are, they didn't even get a single transfer. They started their first term, in 2009, with the solemn demand for 17 new transfers, and you know what they did in these 12 years, what they did was swing, lower their heads and obey Madrid's orders. It became clear, in addition, in case there was any doubt, in the campaign of the generals of the year 2019, it was perfectly clear that Mr. Casado and Mr. Fexóo were perfectly clear. "We shall approve a moratorium which will paralyze the transfer of competences to the autonomous communities"; and then, fulfilling the script, Mr. Fexóo said that "Spain is not to make transfers to the autonomous communities." This is the script, this is the agenda of the People's Party, not transfers. The BNG, on the other hand, is going to continue this debate, as much as we're going to bring it back again and again, so that we can see clearly what the centralist, hyper-centralist and hyper-reactionary agenda of the People's Party is. [[Applause]] The second reason I was saying is because this is a very clear debate. The transfer debate is a necessary debate, it is a timely debate because it makes perfectly clear the place and role of each individual. Let us make it clear who we've been all these years defending the same thing, who we've been acting with perfect consistency, and who's changed position according to the circumstances, according to how the wind blows. And we have in these 12 years many examples of what we've talked about on other occasions: the most scandalous, possibly, is that of AP-9. On this subject, only five years ago, the PP has betrayed the agreements of this Parliament three times by vetoing the Congress of Members to admit this unanimous request from the German Parliament. And they should have fallen in shame to the People's Party, but the truth is, they don't fall in shame, and you know why? Because they have the face of reinforced cement, so they don't fall in the face of shame, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And, of course, there are always competitors on this issue of betraying the agreements of this Parliament, and now we find ourselves that the Socialist Party is in a sort of "and me masa". And the last thing you've done is this embarrassing amendment that you've just presented in the Congress of Members asking for, you know, not to transfer the title of AP-9, but to transfer management. This is absolutely unacceptable, we will not admit it, we want competition with all its consequences, as this Parliament has called for in a unanimous agreement. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And what is this Parliament's agreement? How can they betray it in such a blatant way? It is an insult to this Parliament and the people of Greece. But unfortunately, this is not the only case, it rains on wet and sometimes it doesn't rain just water. And we have another very recent example of road traffic and safety transfers. Of course, what happened here, that the papers are perfectly exchanged, are like two water penguins. In 2010 it was the Socialist Party that boycotted this transfer to Galicia in Congress, which could have been effective 10 years ago and is not against what the German Parliament approved. And now the leader of the boycott is the People's Party, who first admitted to this debate and now says he won't admit, that he won't vote for the adoption of this proposed traffic transfer law. And why? Because the People's Party acts with absolute submission to the most reactionary sectors of the state, with excuses of ill-paying. And there's no need for them to conceal it by declaring eternal love to the Civil Guard, as they do every time they have opportunity; reality is much simpler, the reality is that you don't want self-government, they don't want to take on the competition of trafficking, they don't want us to have a Welsh police officer. That's the reality, stop stories, stop reading. You want Galicia to be a community of second, third division, they don't want Galicia to be a nation -- that's clear enough --. But they don't even want Galicia to be recognized in fact, through these transfers, as historical nationality, which is recognized in the same Constitution. The People's Party programme is perfectly clear: at the service of centralism and at the service of the large IBEX companies. And they're not even able to defend that statute that they celebrate so much. And the third reason I used to say at first is that this proposal for the law on the transfer of meteorology is more necessary than ever. If this debate has been necessary in the past, it is now more necessary than ever. And it's not, by the way, the first time we bring him here, it's going to be a central theme in this legislation, it's going to be an absolutely central theme of weather and climate in the next decade and we have to talk about this subject and talk about competition. And when we talk about this, we have to make history too, because memory is fragile and coherence is also fragile, especially for some people, who lose it very easily. They lose memory, they lose coherence, and they easily lose shame, as you can see in the history of this debate. Let's go to parties: October 8, 2009, that famous Board of the Board of Trustees when Fexóo announced the bomb and dish that we started the greatest self-government stage in our history. Title of that day: "The Union calls upon the State to transfer 17 priority powers to Galicia. The German Government will demand competition on meteorology, coastal management and fisheries sector management." What does this sound like? What's that all about? 12 years ago they said this and we're waiting. To be priority as they said, it's been 12 years and they've achieved absolutely nothing. Zero transfers, that's your balance. But we're moving forward in time: January 25, 2010, "Junta demands the transfer of weather after the last failures," 2010! He says the news: "Galicia is the only community in addition to Ceuta and Melilla..." -- that's where you put us -- that lacks decision-making ability in meteorology by not collecting the Statute competences in this matter." "Galicia aspires..." -- says the Presidency Council -- "...to follow the steps of Catalonia..." -- anathema, following the steps of Catalonia, you said -- "...that gives your own time warnings and strengthened cooperation between organisms." Perfect, where to sign? But it had to be done by 2010. Let's go on: 23 March 2010, "The Environment Adviser reiterates his request to the State for the transfer of competences in meteorology." Mr. Hernandez, then counsellor, says, "We live in a country where we need to have a service in which we can predict and observe our time, taking into account the climatic uniqueness of our territory." Where to sign, too? I mean, they're always giving us the reason, also in today's debate, here's the hemero library. Let's continue: December 11, 2010, the headline, "Parliament will ask the State to transfer the Meteorology Service," which we are asking at the BNG today. And you know who asked for it then? The People's Party. What's wrong?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u18	How?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u19	Ah! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u20	I was already alarming.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u21	It's 15. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u22	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u23	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u24	Indeed, 2010, Parliament calls for the transfer of meteorology to the People's Party's proposal: "The Parliament approved yesterday, the People's Party's initiative, asking the Central Government to transfer competition to the Autonomous Community on the weather service". Mr. Antonio Rodríguez Miranda, who later emigrated from Parliament, defended himself -- that "the management that could make the Government of Galicia would be more effective and adapted to Galicia's climatic and geographic peculiarities." But they're always giving us the reason! They're always giving us reason! What's wrong? That you betrayed these agreements, abandoned these agreements, abandoned this consensus. You've spoken of consensus, but it's you who leave the consensus. And it is done, at the thread of this demand, the PP denounces in parliamentary headquarters -- said the spokesperson of the People's Party -- "that there is a certain stop in the advance of the German self-government." It's funny! Did he say in 2010 that there was a certain stopper? It's just that it wasn't paron, it's been an absolute paralysis that's been taking 12 years and it's the responsibility of Mr. Fexóo's People's Party. There's no other explanation, that's right. [[Applause]] And of course, we have to endure paradoxes, such as what was created on its day, in 2010, Meteogalicia, through an agreement, through such a strange formula, an agreement between the Junta and the University of Santiago, which, despite all the precarious means, despite all the cuts you've been applying, has fewer members than a football team. Meteogalicy, in spite of all this, turns out that it is a useful service, consulted around the world, recognized, and that it shows that it is necessary to have these kinds of services and to have them with full capacity, with full competence and full legal value. Because the warnings from Meteogalicia, as we have no competence in the recognized matter, do not have that full legal validity, are subordinated to the warnings given to Aemet, which sometimes do not have as right as those of Meteogalicia because they are logically closer to the territory and have more follow-up, more information on the foot of territory, on the ground. Finally, this is an essential service for that predictive function that it is so important to anticipate these phenomena, as we have just lived these days, in addition to these extreme meteorological phenomena, which are increasingly, besides, more common; how they suffered last week in Chantada, in the Sacred Ribeira and in Ourense. Because it has a constant and continuous and decisive impact on people's lives, on security, also on economic activities, for example in tourism. How often we're tired of listening to criticism, complaints from the tourism sector in Galicia because of these generic information given from Madrid about our climate, our weather, and the amount of booking cancellations that are made for that reason! Because you take a picture of the entire state through the public and private media that doesn't correspond to reality, you don't give that information in detail. Also, in addition to the predictive function, because of the prospective function, because we have to move forward to the future. We know that there are complicated weather and meteorology times coming, which will become more and more common these extreme weather phenomena, which will drop precipitation, which is increasing temperature, that this has serious consequences in the Greek economic sectors, especially in the primary sector, in the agricultural sector and also in the fisheries sector. Also in public security, in citizen security. Now, there's a lot of reasons to seriously address this issue, and that's why we bring it here, because we want to count on all means and all competences, on all guarantees and legal validity, and to do so by rationality, also by rationality, to avoid duplication, by utility, the usefulness that gives this greatest closeness and knowledge of reality, and also by the singularity that our country has in climate matter, in meteorological matter. That's why we present this bill for your admission to the procedure, to continue taking steps once and for all in self-government and to count on instruments that in the end are to improve the lives of people living in this country, of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u25	Thank you, Mr Bará. I'm sorry, but that's just a little bit of a little bit of a little... [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. He told me it worked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u27	Yeah, yeah, it works.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u28	Oh, it's working! Well, thank you, Mr. President. The PSdEG has always defended that the history of the state of autonomy is a whole story of success: economic, political and social success. Because he's economically opened four decades of prosperity that have no precedent in our history. Because it has politically allowed to articulate, with all the tensions and dialectics inherent in democracy, the territorial demands of a plural state. Because socially it has facilitated the multilevel articulation of a state of well-being that goes through difficult times but that allows many people today to keep their fleet in the midst of the current crisis. When the constitutional process began, there was not a predetermined and default roadmap for developing the state of autonomy, but a deliberately flexible architecture opened up a fan of possibilities that were developing as our democracy advanced, but that could have been in a different way. And today the state of autonomy is still an open process that varies between the danger of centralizing temptation and the danger of independence, separatism. And independence is embodied in the Catalan problem, that of a country that has gradually decided to throw itself into the mountain for many reasons, among them -- no less -- the frustration derived from a statistic process in which PP played against, inflamed passions first and being unable after being able to lower those passions during Rajoy's governments. Until 2017 what happened happened, a situation that is trying to lure the progressive government of Spain, using for this perfectly legal means that are part of our rule of law and bearing that the right, instead of being as high as it should and giving a delicate vote of confidence at a very serious time, continues to play a fire, when the attitude of the Socialist Party, when it was asked to support the application of Article 155, was just the opposite. By the way, today's pardons are not a sign of weakness but of democratic greatness, a bet on the concordance on the best line of that beautiful speech that Manuel Azaña delivered, precisely in Barcelona, in 1938 under the title of Peace, Mercy, Forgiveness. Peace, mercy and forgiveness today also for politicians who have committed crimes for those who have been imprisoned for 3 years and 7 months. In any case, we will continue and we will continue to bet on moving forward in the autonomic model, a model that we claim at the same time that we believe in its perfection, because federalism is not something static but dynamic, and we believe in federalism and we believe that there is no need for problems because it advances in the transfer of competences. We believe in deepening the state of autonomy, defending the character of Galician historical nationality when the Government of Feijóo abdicated the claim of that historical nationality by double departure. First of all, refusing to extend our self-government to the extent that in 12 years it was not that it was not capable, but that it didn't even intend to obtain a new competition, nor a new competition in 12 years. That's the balance as to the application and the expansion of Galician self-government. But as for the exercise of our self-government, the Government of Galicia's PP also abdicated in practice from its competences since it found out that all our evils are the fault of the central government, just the day it entered Moncloa Pedro Sánchez. And already abdicating also for a decade of competences such as industrial or forestry policy, land management, the environment, housing policy and a long et cetera. We believe that Galicia can and must self-governance within constitutional loyalty, and that is why we have proposed in previous sessions of this Parliament to expand competences in matters such as trafficking or labour inspection, or coastal management, but also the public domain maritime-terrestrial, or forestry policy, or judicial demarcation, up to a total of 30 competences. All of these competences, which are reasonable, reasonable, and perfectly viable. We are not to make toasts to the sun about more self-governance or about fictitious and imposed outrages or about mimetic equality with other communities, but to define a sensible path of progress and stimulus of our self-government, because we are on the line of an efficient federalism that doesn't understand it aprioristically that it is better than things the state does or does it Galicia, but it does understand that we have to analyze that it can make the state better and that it can do better Galicia. And we intend, in addition, to adapt the current competitive framework in order to improve it, to strengthen the autonomic model, which is our form of federalism and our way of thinking about federalism. And in that line of efficient federalism, you will probably have to consider the debate on this subject arguments, more arguments than those raised in the explanatory statement of this bill and extended by Mr Bará. Like when it's said that Meteogalicia has a much higher reliability than other state services, something we don't know frankly if it's true, or the existence of a supposed social demand, as you say, of having a service of your own. I have it for me that, if we do a survey on the street of Horreo on that alleged social demand, 9 out of every 10 citizens will say that what matters to them is that the service works, not that it is owned by Galicia or owned by the state. But maybe you have your own surveys that deny this prospect that I'm doing, this guess what I'm doing. Obviously, it's not scientific. As for the peculiarities of Galicia's climate, it is obvious that the climate presents peculiarities everywhere: in Galicia, among the different climate zones of Galicia or even among the microclimates of the different districts. Climate is a whole, a system that doesn't stop at any border, said otherwise: climate is one of the least independent and most interdependent and internationalist phenomena that exist. But if we believe that the transfer of the meteorological service to Galicia can result in a better service to citizenship without thus losing efficiency to the state network, to the extent that all sorts of collaboration mechanisms can be established. On the other hand, most autonomous communities have officially contemplated and assumed this competition, the difference in Galicia, and can therefore have their own meteorological services regardless of the state. So there's no reason a priori for Galicia not to have that competition, which can turn, as I say, into a better service. And that is why we are going to vote in favour, also because of consistency with our position in the past and to enable a competition that has not been included at the moment by a mistake in the drafting of the Statute of Self-Government can be exercised from Galicia, at most at a time when the climate deserves a more careful study, if possible, than in the past, because it is turning against us, when we live in a situation of climate emergency, by course, that we refuse to declare the Government of Galicia against the whole world, against trends -- we do not know why -- even against the express agreement of this Parliament of Galicia. We live, as I say, in a climate emergency situation that puts our way of life at risk and can have particularly disturbing consequences in climate transition areas such as Spain and Galicia. And if the climate has always conditioned our lives in our history, the lives of a traditionally agricultural and fishing community like ours, a community stuck to the earth and the sea, and therefore always dependent on the sky, just when we thought we could be independent of the nature of the climate, we discovered that it's not. We discover by the brave ones that we are part of nature and that we are putting at risk systems that serve us as vital support, among them, specifically, the climate, which affects everyone and every aspect of our lives. Because it determines what we eat, how we work, how we dress, how we protect ourselves from the cold or the heat and all of us and each of the elements that shape our lives. A further argument to be in favour of having an own meteorology service, which, in fact, already exists with Meteogalicia, but which certainly can be made more effective and efficient and better meet the challenges of weather forecasting and climate study if it is within the scope of our self-government. The self-government of a country where rain is surely art. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u29	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The truth is that the proposal, after listening to Mr Bará and Mr Alangüena's interventions, is that little or fair are the arguments centered on the object of matter, object of the proposal of organic law, with which I will focus on that competence framework and on the development or content that I understand related to this proposal of organic law concerning meteorology. Within the framework of the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government points out that Galicia is a historic community, such as that historic nationality, which is to gain access to its self-government. In that area, this Statute has allowed, since its adoption, our country has laid those foundations of what is now that consolidated autonomous community. That same Statute allowed a number of powers to be achieved over time from 1981 until today, irrespective of the political colour of the governments of Galicia and Spain. The Constitution, in its Article 149, speaks of the State's exclusive competence in the field of basic environmental legislation, but it also speaks of these additional rules of protection by autonomous communities. As also Article 149 refers to that exclusive competence of the State in the matter of meteorological service. For its part, the Autonomy Statute does not explicitly collect that competence, but does provide that our community may request the transfer or delegation of powers not assumed in this Statute. And it is to this House, it is to this Parliament, which has the competence to make the previous applications, and to determine the body to which that transferred or delegated competence would be assigned. The reality is that the main transfers of the autonomous state, according to the Constitution, are to some extent exhausted, and, as we have seen defending it, the policy of transfers is a policy that, in general terms, has been going on a different path for years, seeking a self-government that has as its priority the best defence of Galicia's interests. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall and reiterate the support that this People's Parliamentary Group in this House has always made for the transfer of the meteorology service. I'd like to remember that this was a constant request from Galicia, and that's why from the year 2000 there is Meteogalicia. Initially, this service consisted of, as Mr Bará said, that agreement between the Environmental Council and the University of Santiago, but gradually incorporating new functions, and collaborating with many different users: the administration itself, the university, the Galician Radio and Television company, the press or even the citizens. Demonstrated the viability of this service from every point of view, technical, human and economic point of view, Meteogalicia has passed to its fully operational phase since 2006, integrating itself into the organization chart of the Galician Union, and in 2019, by decree, it is assigned its management to the Environmental Quality Directorate, becoming that meteorological service itself of what Galicia enjoys, becoming a reference in both meteorology, climatelogy and scientific level. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to the field of competence, I would like to remind you that in 2005 there was a meeting in which the transfer of this competition was requested to the new Government, those socialists, to which Galicia was told to wait. This was also reported to the Bipartisan Government at its own time, in a report on pending transfers, a bipartisan Government that did not obtain this transfer either. Therefore, the request for the transfer of competence in the field of meteorological services to Galicia is not new, and what is now presented by BNG is a proposal for organic law on the transfer of meteorological services based in Galicia to Galicia's Union. Exactly the same initiative that was rejected in its consideration at the plenary session on 6 May 2014, exactly the same initiative registered in the legislation on 29 August 2019, an initiative that did not come to debate, and the written replies by the Government of the Union to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego in April and August 2015. What is the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará? For your proposal is a total transfer, including, as stated in your article 3, the necessary personal, material and budgetary means. And what is the content of Galician and government demands? Well, the transfer of meteorological services, but it's the agreement that was requested in 2018, the transfer of competition to meteorology for autonomic competition services, for example emergencies. This parliamentary group supports the position of the German Government, which is ultimately the transfer of functions in the meteorological field necessary for the proper exercise of its statutory powers, regardless of the functions that the State Meteorology Agency exercises at the state level, and explains it. Meteorology and climateology have a practical application of public interest both in the short term and in the compilation and systematization of data that enables climate models that support predictions in the medium and long term. And from the administrative and institutional point of view, the implementation of a public meteorological service does not respond to the exercise of an exhausted competition within itself, but rather has a clear conjunctural and instrumental character with respect to other public powers or functions. On the basis of this, the Autonomy Statute gives our community the following competences on which exercise affects to a greater or lesser extent meteorology and climateology, by mentioning some of the exclusive competences of Article 27: I refer to public works, railways and unincorporated roads to the State, ports, airports, helicopters, and on hydraulic uses, fishing, seafood, aquaculture, additional rules on environmental protection, research promotion. It also refers to the execution of the state legislation, which collects Article 29 which, for example, the marine rescue or industrial and contaminants in the territorial waters of the State, corresponding to the Greek coast. And also, with regard to Article 30, on exclusive competences according to the basis and the management of economic performance in relation to something as important in our community as agriculture and livestock. Without prejudice to the previous one, and as I'm saying in my speech a few minutes ago, the need to have a public meteorological service in Galicia acquires special relevance in terms of declaration and emergency management and civil protection, especially when we talk about the activation of a public civil protection plan. In this context, support for quality meteorological services is required, which act in close coordination with autonomic emergency services. In conclusion, ladies, where do I want to go? For it must be stressed that what this Government is seeking, what the Council of Galicia wants is the transmission of powers corresponding to state competence in meteorological matters, linked to this exercise of these powers which I have just mentioned. And as provided for in Article 150(2), the State may transfer or delegate to autonomous communities, by means of organic law, powers corresponding to matters of State ownership. That's where the Galician Union is, that's where the Welsh Government is, and that's where the support of this People's Parliamentary Group lies. So this alternative does not mean a block transfer, as proposed by the Block, of competition in meteorological matters, nor of the Aemet infrastructure, but as I have just indicated, the transfer of specific powers related to autonomous competences. And why all this? Because, for example, with regard to the transfer of means, it is necessary to take into account that the Community has already provided a public meteorological information service. Today there are only three communities with him, Galicia, Basque Country and Catalonia. The services offered and the results generated by Meteogalicia make it clear that they have sufficient capacity to exercise competence in meteorology, regardless of Aemet, of course. Meteogalicia takes in its DNA the exercise of a proximity meteorological service, a good example of its prognosis, which are and are as important for specific sectors as fishing, tourist, gander, audiovisual, collaboration with other departments of the Union, such as Education, when it comes to weather alerts, the Galician Health Service, when we talk about heat waves, Galician waters, in the prediction and management of floods or droughts and in emergency matters. It is clear, therefore, that since the German Government, since the Galician Union, we have been talking about faculties linked to these autonomous competences. That's why it's necessary to ask the State to transfer the functions corresponding to the weather service to our community. So, they'll have officialship, which is what this government is looking for, the warnings and warnings it issues Meteogalicia, because today they have no official validity, and those that are used for weather emergencies or to suspend school classes are those that indicate Aemet. And it could also solve the lack of legal value of Meteogalicia predictions, for example in the case of insurers, of the effect it has on insurers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, and above all referring to the proposed group, Galicia already has its own meteorological service, which is an indispensable reference both at national and European level, thanks, above all, to its working method, and above all to the large team of professionals that make it up. Galicia today has other priorities, such as those you referred to, Mr Bará, such as the transfer of AP-9, such as the transfer of public maritime-terrestrial domain. Finally, these are the priorities, these are the demands of the German Government, and this is what this People's Parliamentary Group supports. So I think that, on this statement, we understand that this People's Parliamentary Group will not support its initiative, Mr Bará, because we understand that Galicia already has a service, as it is Meteogalicia, with full capacity and simply has to have that legal validity of its predictions, and simply talk about that we have other priorities, such as, I insist, in something that Mr Aranguena I ask you to think you have to seek in that AP-9 transfer to change that point of view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u32	...don't focus on that management, on that maritime-terrestrial public domain of what we've already talked about, and that's where we're going to be, on our priorities, on the priorities of this Government, on those priorities that this People's Parliamentary Group will support. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the bill. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u34	What a cardboard, Mr. Díaz Mouteira! You not only disagreed with everything they said in this parliamentary gallery in the years 2009, 2010, but if you... you contradicted yourself in your intervention, because you said one thing and the opposite. [[Murmurs.]] And he came to give us the reason in the end, he came to give us the reason. You said that there was Meteogalicy, that it did a great function, but that it did not have legal validity. So let us take the necessary steps to ensure full legal validity through the transfer of that competition. What's the matter? It's just that you are a pure incoherence, pure contradiction and have no word, you have no credibility. And they're giving us the reason, they said, they gave us the reason with everything I told you, I read it here all these years, and they give it back to us today. You know what the problem is? The problem is, you don't believe in self-government, you don't. You want a small Galician, a miniature Galician, a bonsai Galician, a submissive, submissive, serene Galician. That's your schedule, the schedule of submission to Madrid, from submission to the interests of large companies, and then when there's some debate like this, then they're gonna get away with it as if it were fire. That's right. Because they don't want to bother, they don't want to bother their Madrid bosses, this is reality, there's no other. And look, these debates, if they come here to this Parliament, they come because BNG drives them, and you do it is to put them on the brake with AP-9, with traffic transfer and road safety, now also with the meteorology transfer. And it's an absolute sense of what you came to say here. First, if we look at this map of Aemet, which is usually the map presented in the media to citizenship, it gives totally distorted information. [[Lord Bará shows a sheet with a map.]] We know, people don't go, most of them, unless they're for a specific need, they're not going to look at Aemet's page to see weather information in provinces, they're looking at the information given at the state level. But, of course, there's the sense, which here is a blank space that is, for example, Portugal, the north of Portugal. I mean, it gives us the weather information of the Canary Islands or Balearic Islands, which we go to every day -- as you know -- but it doesn't give us the information about what's going on in northern Portugal. That should be one of the first steps the Government of Greece should take, to have direct cooperation on meteorological matters with Portugal, because it's our other side, to which we go every day. [[Applause]] This can't be admitted. [[Applause]] And, of course, you said we don't have the powers, but you didn't say that the other communities, the other communities, in article 143, do have them because an organic law was passed on their day by which it was literally called "transfer of exclusive powers of the state." It is transferred to the communities of Asturias, Cantabria, A Rioxa, Murcia, Aragón, Castela-A Mancha, Extremadura, Balearic Islands, Madrid and Castela-Leon to the exclusive competence of the following subjects: k)weather service of the autonomous community". With all the legal consequences, which is what we don't have and which you came here to recognize. And you said they had differences about the writing that has the text that the BNG presents. No problem, this is an admission to the procedure. In the parliamentary process, you can make any changes you want to be able to carry out this transfer. But why don't they? Because they're against Galicia having these powers. They have to make it clear, because they have other priorities, because your priorities are the Madrid agenda, they're the agenda that they tell you in Madrid, that agenda would react, that hyper-centralist agenda. Because you are in this matter thrown to the mountain in competition with the ultra right and then you can't talk about it. This is the real reason why you don't bring this debate here. So, have courage, have courage, think and decide for themselves -- not what they're sent to them in Madrid -- don't abandon that submission, don't act like telenecs in Madrid, as directed by Madrid, which are the ones that tell them what button they have to press. And paraphrasing in addition -- finished -- Mrs. Paula Prado, in her previous speech: set aside party interests and really defend Galician interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u35	Thank you, Mr Bará. After we have finished the debate on the legislative texts, we shall proceed to the vote on them. Voting of the taking into consideration of the proposals of the law We begin by voting on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia. Vote on the proposal for a law of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group for Reform of Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. It is therefore taken into account this bill, which will continue its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u36	We are now voting on the proposal for a law, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Voting of the bill taken into consideration by the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, which is an organ to present before the Congress of Deputies, for the transfer of meteorological services based in Galicia to the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u37	The votes are over here. Agenda Change We continue with the agenda, in this case there are some changes and now we will deal with motions. And within them we will begin by discussing, firstly, that of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block; and then the interpellations will be debated. Motion by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the policy of the Galician Union on the automotive sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u38	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Thirteen million jobs at risk. Just a year before the cover pandemic, in March 2019, PSA group councillor Carlos Tabares, called for angry action against the European Union Commission's decision to reduce polluting emissions by 40 % by 2030. And he was accused of risking 13 million jobs in Europe, 13 million jobs. At the plenary session of this Parliament on 8th, the BNG presented an initiative calling on the Union to discuss the situation of the automotive sector in Galicia. A strategic sector for our economy, which represented between 12 and 14% of our GDP before the pandemic, 34% of the exports from Greece, and which occupied around 25,000 people in 2020. We asked Vice-President Count for the Board's plans for this sector, making fincapé three questions: what is the position of the Board on the possible installation of a battery plant?, what is the position of the Board on the excessive dependence of our automotive sector on a single large manufacturer?, and finally, what is the position of the Board on the galloping precariousness of working conditions in the sector? At the end of the day, about the precariousness of working conditions, the vice president said absolutely nothing, nothing at all, like anyone hearing rain. And that is what we have made several specific mention: abuse of partial contracts, lack of notice in the TENs, business practices to avoid the application of the metal agreement, possible fraudulent use of special employment centres, and other problems. None of these matters deserved the slightest comment. On the second aspect, the excessive dependence of a single large manufacturer, the same, absolute silence, nothing to comment on. On the battery plant itself, Vice President Conde said two things: one, which thanks to the Galician Union, has corrected an injustice and there will be a competitive process to decide the final location of the battery plant that the Government of the State announced for Barcelona. And that the Galician Union will support any initiative to install such a plant. Frankly, it was almost best I hadn't said anything because that's why, thanks to Junta, an injustice has been corrected and there's going to be a competitive process to decide how to install the plant, nobody believes it. The rest of Spain gives in fact that the plant goes to Barcelona and they look for other alternatives, some are known and have many faces to come true: Extreme, Basque, Valencia have their own plans already in progress. And while the Union continues to see them, it will support what comes, without more; or, in other words, what Citroën says, like all life, as if nothing had happened here. Look, we are very concerned, because the lack of industrial policy in the Union, of initiative and foresight, was already known; in fact, it has been a constant in the last 12 years of the Government of Fascow, but today it is already a social cry even in business circles. And we live at times when this lack of industrial policy is kamikaze, there are many things, many changes, many changes and very important changes that are taking place in the economy in general and in the automotive sector in particular. One is new and another, although they're already coming back, they're accelerating, especially in three areas: the electric car is a big change, and the first thing the German Government should do is to know how this change will affect the sector, how it will affect the job, that components of those that are manufactured today in Galicia disappear from the electric motor, how many companies and how many people will be affected by the change. For example, what about the exhaust factories, the ones that manufacture transmissions, or the ones that manufacture combustion engines coolers, or the ones that manufacture thermal insulators? Do you have any reports, any forecasts, some maps, anything about how can employment affect switching combustion engines to electric engines? Second, the new forms of mobility. How will the production volume affect new forms of mobility? The bet on public transport, the shared car. Above all, given that our main market is the countries of the European Union which will be at the forefront of these changes. Any predictions about this? And finally, a matter of utmost importance and at least at the media level, which has recently moved to a background but which is particularly concerned in the sector: robotization. The automotive sector is one of the most robotic sectors of activity; it's, by the way, its distinctive brand and the model to be imitated by other sectors. In fact, before the pandemic 50 % of all robots in the European Union were installed in this industrial sector. But this doesn't mean that the level of robotization is not going to increase. Over the past five years, the employment volume of some of the largest and most famous factories in the sector, such as DKN or BorgWarner, has declined markedly as production grew. And these job loss trends can be aggravated and accelerated by increasing digitization and artificial intelligence in systems and production chains. Do you have the Galician Board estimates or some forecast of how these changes will affect what they call Industry 4.0 and Smart Industry the volume of employment in the sector? Far from the 13 million jobs Tabares claimed that they could be at risk in the European Union depending on how they faced the decarbonization of mobility, the truth is that countries such as France and Germany have their diagnosis of jobs that are going to be lost, and range between 15,000 and 100,000 jobs, respectively. And they have plans to direct manpower, installations and surplus infrastructures towards the production of the new components that the new vehicle models are going to demand. And most importantly, they have planned investments. Some countries like France or Germany -- and even within the Spanish state, Euskadi or Catalonia -- want to be at the head of this transition. And they know that getting the installation, for example, of battery plants of those industrial and technological capabilities to meet that future demand for new services and components that will generate the new industrial model can become an attraction pole for many other factories. That is, it's possible that new industrial plants will appear in the heat of the installation of these new plants, these new capabilities. And in an area where production moves from one country to another, where relocations are currency of current exchange, having these new capacities is not only essential to attract new factories but also to consolidate existing ones. So countries with a tradition and a contrasted industrial policy, who know how important industry is to an economy, take the initiative and don't expect anyone to tell them what they can or can't do. This is the reason for the motion that the BNG brings today's debate. A motion that basically has two parts: the first one, to constitute a galley table of the automobile where the board itself, the cluster, universities and the unions are present. A table where everyone who has something to say has a voice, something to approach, or legitimate interests to represent. A forum that serves to build consensus in a transparent way, which serves to democratize the sector and serves to mark country strategies. And the second one, to put in place a plan by the German automobile with three main axes: Promote the installation in Galicia of new actors and industrial activities related to the sector that burst with the current excessive dependence on a single large manufacturer, and which guarantee the production in Galicia of those critical and more valuable components added according to the new mobility systems, power battery cell factories, semiconductor factories, hydrogen stack factories, traction engines, onboard loaders, new traction systems, investors, controllers, cargo ports, etc. Second: drive a competitive Welsh electricity tariff that reverses the benefits of being electricity producers in the country's industrial sector. And thirdly, to promote a employment pact in the sector that guarantees health protection, the re-emergency of staff paintings, the recruitment of full-time employees and the application of the provincial metal convention to companies without own agreement as wage land. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the BNG presents an initiative for the debate with a series of proposals starting from a deep concern about the situation and future of an extremely important sector for our economy and, above all, part of the conviction that we should have, as a country, a much more determined position, policy and action to consolidate industrial and employment. A conviction, which we consider to be contradictory, that governments cannot leave to the design of large companies the design and planning of the strategic sectors of an economy. Examples of this are current in the electricity sector or banking sector. Today, all of us can see, for example, in the banking sector how digitisation of services causes huge job cuts. No less qualified jobs are changed by more qualified ones, there is a negative balance of jobs in the sector. CaixaBank's staff today announces a strike in protest for over 7,000 layoffs. A few weeks ago it was BBVA. It's not our intention to demonize technological innovations, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u41	...but if we really want technology -- finished, Mr President --...to serve people rather than vice versa, we must be concerned that governments, which represent the collective interests of people in society, are involved in that planning and design of the strategic sectors. We need a diagnosis of the sector in the repercussions that will have the changes we are living in, and a plan to consolidate activity and employment. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u42	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Stellantis factory in Vigo has a production of over 500,000 vehicles. This makes the automotive sector very rooted in our land and has a strong presence of technology centers. The Stellantis Group plant became the one that made more vehicles in Spain last year and it was also the only national center that managed to improve its production records compared to 2019. Vigo is a perfect enclave to project an electric battery factory, a photonic circuit factory, i.e. chips, and an autonomous car project, due to its proximity to the vehicle manufacturers. Last March, the French Zone Consortium presented to the Government of Spain the project of an electric battery factory to opt for the Next Generation funds. The battery factory would have an initial production capacity of 2 gigavats/hour to reach 16 gigavats/hour in the final phase, with production of 300,000 electric batteries. The investment reaches 151 million for the 2 initial gigavats. So it's estimated that total investment can exceed 1 billion. Job creation would have two phases. In the first one there would be 100 direct jobs and 1,000 indirect jobs. And in the second, with the factory full performance, more than 800 direct jobs and 8,000 indirect jobs. Because what really matters are the jobs that will be created in Galicia. To the Greeks and to the Greeks, what they care about is having a job, the problem with the Greek citizenship is employment, it's employment, and this battery factory would give thousands of jobs in Vigo County. [[Applause]] One of the project's strengths is the associated clean propulsion technology laboratories, one of them integrated into the project and four other support laboratories led by the Galician Automotion Technology Center, the so-called CTAG. Laboratories differentiate this project, which aims to fix the car industry, improve its competitiveness, supply the demand for batteries from the peninsula's automotive factories, supply the demand of other project participants, and create a competition and research and development centre for the electric vehicle. In this connection, we maintain Vigo's position as a European reference point for vehicle production. This is a strategic project that is leading the Vigo Town Hall and the Free Zone. From the Galician Union, you know nothing, it seems that the industry doesn't go with it, it seems that the industry's competences are not from the Galician Union. And what the vice president said the other day first about the battery plant seemed like a joke, a macabre joke. The positive impact of the project on society and the economy is evident because with it the economy is empowered through a market need, it generates skilled jobs and investments, it promotes sustainable mobility, the automotive industry is subject to territory and competitiveness improves and contributes both to digital transformation and to the ecological transition. Spain manufactures 2 million cars, or 25% in Vigo, we need battery factories in our country. Another project presented by the Vigo Free Zone in May related to the automobile is the V2X connected vehicle tractor program, technology that allows communication between the vehicle and its environment, which has as its main objective to convert Spain into an international referent into connected mobility and promote the necessary R+D+i through the creation of a network of mobility experiments poles for various environments: urban, roads, high capacity network, rural or circuits. And product approval centres in four autonomys: Galicia, Catalonia, Castela-León and Aragon. This project, in which all the actors with car knowledge collaborated, was introduced to the Next Generation funds. And we can say that this project is a reality, as this weekend was confirmed, and that makes Vigo a pioneer on the connected and autonomous car. This project has already become a strategic project for the economic recovery and transformation of the automobile, which will be approved by the Government of Pedro Sánchez. This is a very good news for Vigo and Galicia, and it's a very good news because it will create 1,540 jobs in the first three years. We're talking again about jobs, jobs and jobs and more, which is what matters right now. It is a strategic opportunity for Galicia and Spain that reflects the strength of the North Peninsula through the spatial and geographic union of the Free Zone of Barcelona and the Free Zone of Vigo and which will attract high value added activities necessary for the industry. Where's the Galician Union? Where is Mr Feijóo's industrial policy? The Vigo Free Zone has succeeded in creating a project for the automotive industry. What did you get from Galicia? What did Mr. Feijóo's government get? Nothing at all. [[Applause]] A few months ago, the Free Zone and the University of Vigo also presented a project to install in the city a photonic circuit factory, that is, chips, and an R & D laboratory that will compete with the collection of European funds Next Generation. The planned budget to develop this plant amounts to EUR 50 million and the forecast is that within three years it will come into operation by generating 150 high-tech direct jobs and 700 indirect jobs. Once again jobs, which is what the Greeks and the Greeks want. Professor of the University of Vigo Francisco Díaz explained that photonics is a key technology for the European Union, but at the moment there are only two chip factories in Europe, whose manufacturing was for Asia, as we all know. In 5 years the factory would absorb up to 10 % of the manufacturing market and 20 % of the device market. A milestone for Vigo and Galicia that would put us on the European map of high technology and semiconductors. For Spain it would mean the creation of a new national ecosystem with the capacity to have a cross-cutting impact on different sectors of the economy. We don't forget that thanks to the Galician automotive industry, it's at the first national export post, but not thanks, of course, to the Galician Union, and that despite the chip crisis. The lack of semiconductors has ceased to mount only on the Stellantis plant in Vigo more than 50,000 vehicles since the beginning of the year, forcing the Balados factory to use temporary employment regulation files, affecting the employment of thousands of workers, and we talk again about employment. What a government has to do is make solutions so that people don't get out of work, which they haven't done or done Mr. Feijó's government, they don't care about employment in the automobile. In the face of this crisis from the semiconductors to the Galician Union you made? Well, again, nothing at all. And what you did is the Free Zone was to present a project for the Next Generation funds so as not to depend on any in the chip supply. Where's Junta? The Union is neither expected in industrial policy, nor expected in industrial policy. [[Applause]] These projects could have been submitted by Mr. Feijóo's Government to Next Generation funds and thus give that boost that much needs the automotive industry and industry in general, but no, they prefer to be missing, be missing -- if I allow the expression --. Blame the others and don't do anything, blame the others and say it's someone else's fault. But what he's doing by automobile is the Government of Spain. And, by the way, on the Galician Automotion Table they propose in the motion it would be good -- it's a suggestion -- to put the Free Zone and the municipalities in the Vigo area. That's a suggestion. And on the other hand, saying that we don't agree to drive a Welsh electric tariff, because the electricity market in our country is Iberian, it's from Spain and Portugal, and it goes against all economic logic. But I imagine that this will be discussed at another time in this Parliament. And he ends up announcing that in a few days the Government of Spain will contact the self-government to see if he wants to cooperate and add or continue without doing anything at all. We'll see what he's doing, then saying that it's Peter Sanchez's Government's fault, we'll fix everything. They unite, cooperate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, speak to the Galician Union and tell them to get to work, to get to work, because we are facing one of the biggest economic crises of recent times, and we have to be all the administrations together and united to get this country forward. People need to work, they're sick of being told that it's someone else's fault, people need to work. Yeah, yeah, people need to work. Stop being in constant confrontation with the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u45	...from Spain and get to work once from the German Government. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u47	Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, there's a last-minute teletype that just said that "Galice leads the industry's increase in invoicing in April, when 110.5 percent..." and I say that something will have to do with Galicia's industrial policy to shoot those figures. [[Applause]] Well, Mrs. Gallego, you come here to talk about your book, you come here about your party partners, the delegate of the Franc Zone, the mayor of Vigo himself. Where are those projects you're talking about? Because a lot of ads and zero reality. Where are those projects you're talking about? [[Murmurs.]] You say they lead only here the Free Zone and the Vigo Town Hall the automobile. That is really lacking in this respect, much, with regard to the sector itself, to the workers themselves in the sector, and to the Government itself, who always works, in addition to the hand with the cluster, you know that he works hand with the cluster, you know that he works hand with the cluster, with the automotive sector. Where are they? You tell me where those projects are, and where the investment is, and what you're going to do. Even today in the press we also read a news that says that the third Stellantis battery factory goes a long way through Galicia, because the ministry, I don't know what, I don't know which ministry, I don't know who to appeal to, but to Sánchez, who is only pendant of Catalonia, also to the industry, only pendant of Catalonia and not looking at Galicia, and let any project that has to do with Galicia pass. [[Murmurs.]] Because, besides, it's not like that and it's not in the industry. So, Mrs. Gallego, well, we had a debate, here the Block exposed its position, which we disagreed with, too, but it didn't come here, like you, to make an advertisement and an advertising, which is what we are completely accustomed to in Vigo, from projects that go out on pages of newspapers but that are never reality, that are never a reality. Well, the first thing I have to say in this case is that there's already a strategic plan. There is a strategic plan, neither the first nor the second, the fourth strategic plan for driving Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] That there already exists an interlocutor, an interlocutor between the sector and the Union, which is the cluster, which is the ECAGA itself, and on the CEAGA web you can also see how you are developing and what this strategic plan consists of. So Mr. Fernández said we were talking about a lack of foresight. Lack of foresight when, since 2009, when he arrived, in addition, he made it to Together with a project, with a crisis in 2012, with a lot of problems in industry as well, although strategic plans have been made and bet on a sector, which, as I say, today are shooting its figures, are leading exports, and the two here, in addition, have corroborated that data. They've been saying that Junta doesn't cooperate, doesn't cooperate, doesn't bet on the automotive sector, and Junta's been betting, cooperating and cooperating on the industry for years. They speak and speak again about the Greek electric tariff, as if it were the solution of all evils, but they don't name the important thing, which can be done right now. You're talking about the Welsh electric fare to hide several things. The first, which Spain today has the price of the most expensive light in Europe, at this moment. That is to maintain absolute competitiveness -- apart from affecting families -- to maintain competitiveness to industry. The disorganization into the energy policy of the Government, with increasingly serious consequences on the economy of families, on the economy of businesses, on the loss of competitiveness, which one day they say one thing and another day they say another. Later, the withdrawal by Sánchez from the Socialist Party of Vigo's electrical substation, which was already a reality and was on the power grid plan for 2026, with a Government of the People's Party, and a party arrived at the Socialist Government in Madrid and retired from it. So that's what you can do now and you're talking about the Welsh electric tariff, but you're not talking about this reality that could be carried out right now. With regard to point 4, you talk about staff, employment, and I think you'd have to tone, because you put in the same sentence several concepts. It speaks of agreements, the provincial agreement, an own agreement that would also have to be followed and carried out by social agents and follow their channels through the Galician Labour Relations Council, and not the Union, that the Union is unable to impose here the conventions or criteria that have to debate its own social agents and reach their agreements. If we're talking about the staff paintings, we have to say that you're already thinking about it and you're already working on it. You also talked about the importance of technology and the importance of robotics in this kind of industry. The Greek Skills Agenda will carry out a comprehensive study of the demands for training for employment by Galicia's industrial and productive fabric, with total foresight, what you said, is already on the table, and we agree that both the unemployed and the employed who have older training need to be recycled, of course, that they are active and that they still have many years of work ahead. They'll have to adapt to the company's new needs, of course the board takes it into account. And then, studies on emerging technologies, which are also detected through the work of the Galician Union to detect needs in the car sector, and to adapt training. You come here to sell your fake, fake message, that the board did everything wrong, and didn't support the automobile. Just like the Socialist Party's own voicer. But, look, it's just that Citroën came to Vigo in 1958 and we're in 2021, and since then, with all the news, all the progress that has been going on, all the crises we've had to go through, it's still there. And you too, sometimes, in your explanatory statement, in some automotive PNLs, you understand how you would have to diversify, like Stellantis in this case, or the old Citroën is a giant... let's see, that's the engine, that's the tractor, that since Vigo arrived, what he's always fighting this Unity of Galicia right now, is that he stays there, and that he shoots of course from all the auxiliary companies around him, and therefore also from all that are exports and traffic in the port of Vigo. Because, look, I'll also give you a data from the port of Vigo. The last Board of Directors: "Frozen fishing, automobiles and cement are the most significant commodities in the past month." And I'm telling you that the commodities like frozen fishing went up by 20.72% and the cars by 17.11% with respect to 2019, which could be a pandemic year and we could count on it, but in the accumulated case of May 2021 they stand out in the cars with a rise of 23.5%. So it's false -- if we see the data -- that things go wrong, or that we have to change the plan and the driving policies of the Galician Union. Stellantis is still the second most important factory in Spain, the best productivity in the group. Is that a success for everyone? It may be a success for everyone, but you vote don't try to elude here that the Galician Union from the very first moment, always, from the People's Party, has bet on the automotive as a strategic sector, and that is demonstrating it every day. The microchips crisis is concerned, indeed, but last Friday we read the following headline: "The car augus Galicia to the number one national in exports, despite the chips." And, as I said before, the port of Vigo is going like a shot, thanks to that production, that factory and the policies -- I insist -- industrial of the Galician Union, which at no time circumvents its responsibility. It's good news for the support being given, and already thinking about the future. Thinking about the future because CETAC, CEAGA and the Galician Union also work on the project, which you will know, which is the AutoAncora project, which includes innovation, including training, includes a greener, more digital value cycle, and everything devoted to European funds in order to provide all the needs that the company has. Today I also read that a study progresses that possibly the crisis of microchips, which affects all of Europe, will be a global crisis. I should also solve it with several tips. Well, we could also get rid of these funds here that we don't have much confidence in the government. All the steps, all the actions that the second vice president and industrial adviser put forward in the interpellation here have an objective within the plan for the Greek for the automobile, and that Vigo and his metropolitan area are the reference point where the mobility of the future is designed and reached. But, Mrs. Gallego, I have to tell you that all this work has already been done and is on the table, and what you said here is smoke, pure smoke, ads, advertisements, photographs, but nothing, nothing, nothing closed. There's no project on the table by the Government of Spain. You come here and announce that the Government of Spain will contact the Government of Galicia. Well, if you give this exclusive here, we'll see whether it's true or not. It doesn't help, it doesn't help the activity of the German Government, and the decisions that, if you see it really don't help, how it was to withdraw, for example, the substation of the power grid plan by 2026. The 220 kilovolts substation, which is really a priority and is fundamental to the competitiveness of the automotive sector and the competitiveness of the Vigo metropolitan area and the Vigo industry and its surroundings, Mrs. Gallego. That is a political decision and it's a fact, that is a fact and it's totally negative. As for the Galician Nationalist Block, I have to say that your decisions and actions have not helped, too, because you have not supported the change of the Land Law to expand Stellantis itself in your day. You didn't support the agreement not to demonize the diesel and boost the agenda of the automotive industry. You have also not adopted a proposal to encourage the replacement of vehicles of more than 10 years of age by other low-emissions in a GNP in this Parliament. So you don't help either, you don't support the help. You would radically change the automotive policy, but it turns out it's okay, that exports are very high. It turns out there is employment, there are possibilities and expectations for the future for the job, for the assistants and for Stellantis Vigo himself. And so if you want to radically change everything, it would probably be wrong, and therefore we do not agree to support this motion, and you know that we disagree on many issues, but here the data really assess the policy of the Galician Union. There are very few territories in Europe that can believe some of these figures, and I'm not going to repeat what the first vice president and industry advisor said here, too, but Galicia has built nearly 1 out of every 4 vehicles that are produced in Spain, and more than 30 percent of our exports come from the automotive sector. Therefore, the Galician Union will continue to work on this line, because the data is positive and they support it. And from the lies of Mrs Gallego and the Socialist Party, we don't trust ourselves at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Fernández Alfonzo has the floor for the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u49	Thank you. I'm like that for which. The truth is that neither PSOE nor Popular Party had presented anything for the German automotive sector before the announcement of the battery plant for Barcelona. His subsequent demonstrations or projects are nothing more than attempts to remain silent. But I insist, the truth is that there are projects in other countries, in other countries, that don't expect anyone to tell them what they can or can't do. [[Applause]] He talks about good expectations and data, but he doesn't respond to the requirements that we make him see reports and forecasts on the impact on the employment of all these transformations. I'm going to mention to you again some of the ones I mentioned during the interrogation. The Basquevolt project, for example. It's an interesting example because it involves the collaboration of different administrations, driven by the Basque Government, but also with the collaboration of the Extreme Government, and even of Nafarroa. In Barcelona, in addition to the projects that will be promoted by the State Government, there is a project that is driven by the Eureka technology centre and the Catalonian Energy Research Institute for a battery technology centre. Meanwhile, the Minister of Industry announced a couple of days ago that, in addition to the Barcelona factory -- which less than Mr. Count everyone already does -- there is the possibility of boosting another's installation, and he states that Asturias is the favorite to host that second factory. The weight of the sector in Galicia is evident, and the relative weight of the German sector in relation to the state as a whole is also known. However, we are not in the quinies, a contradiction to the importance of the sector. What gives evidence, among other things, of the null political weight of the Galician Fish. The lack of initiative of the Union is a fact, because there was no and there is no initiative on the part of the Union of Galicia to install in our country such factories as those we pointed out in our motion. Tens of electric batteries, semiconductors, hydrogen batteries, traction engines, on board loaders, new traction systems, investors, controllers, cargo ports... ultimately, the new components, and fundamentals, of the new vehicle models. We're not going to deny that the Union subsidizes the sector, it's public domain, but this doesn't mean that it has a plan. For example, subsidizing projects like Busynes Factory, which are very industry-oriented 4.0 and the smart factory, should not be in contradiction with the installation of new activities and new actors in the automotive sector in our country. Nor should it be in contradiction, but on the contrary, to know what is the impact on the use of these innovations in the production processes. Vice-President Count of public-private collaboration and approach to the sector worth 200 million euros in recent years. However, you didn't mention any -- nor did you -- the precarious working conditions in the sector, as required. The feeling that the Union's policy on the automotive sector is precisely that its policy ends in granting grants. That public-private collaboration from which the People's Party is so proud is being subsidised without asking for explanations, without worrying about ensuring a return to society that makes that economic coming. The same way he will now subsidize the banking sector the installation of cashiers in rural areas. Our motion is aimed at creating, first, a forum in the sector where all interested and affected parties can contribute to setting long-term targets. And monitoring the results and impact, not only of the transformations in the sector at the technological level but also of public policies, public spending. And secondly, to put in place a plan not only for the capture of new activities and actors, which is fundamental, but also for a plan that takes great account of working conditions in the sector, working conditions, employment stability, partiality, the reconciliation of working and family life. We've already told Vice President Conde -- and he did it as if he hadn't listened -- that today everyone is clear in the sector that working conditions have worsened a lot in recent years and that they keep getting worse, it's a consolidated trend. And Junta just makes it like it's a necessary or inevitable evil, and it's not a reduced phenomenon at the workshops and at the less qualified staff, it's a cross-sectional phenomenon that reaches all layers of the industry. And the Government must do something about it, not by receiving passatism or, worse yet, the complicit silence of the Galician Union with this trend, with this galloping precariousness of working conditions in an area that -- we don't forget -- not only has billionaire benefits year after year but has unconditional support from all political areas, from the European Union to the Galician Union itself. And finally, Galicia is a country with abundant resources of renewable energy, a source of wealth that we must use, among other things, to industrialize the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u51	Any kind of industry -- finished -- is heavily dependent on energy prices, but today it's not the only price that matters, but also the source of energy. It's not understood that our Government, that the Galician Union, is not doing the impossible to value our energy resources, to make these resources a competitive advantage, which can be radical to put us at the forefront of the transformation of the sector and the models of mobility in general.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u53	We need a plan for the sector, we need a global view of the industrial sector and the context of the markets where this activity takes place. And under no concept can we lose sight of the working conditions in the sector and the life expectancy of the people we represent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u55	It's our duty. It's your duty. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u56	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next motion. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the management of human resources in the Galician Health Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u57	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this motion:Replace the text of point 3 with the following wording:"3. Immediately implement a Human Resources Management Plan from which to present a plan of employment stability, to negotiate immediately at the sectoral table, which enables the establishment of a staff framework with the appropriate ratios to provide a decent quality of care, end the precariousness of recruitment, and convene the full range of vacant squares.Addendum amendment Add a new point 4 with the following text: "4. To request the Spanish Government to comply with the agreement adopted unanimously which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to urge the Spanish Government to eliminate as a basic standard the rate of replacement of troops in the State Budget Act, corresponding to each autonomous community the competence to determine the number of squares to be included in the annual public employment offer."]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It's almost endless debate about working conditions for professionals in Galicia's health care system, and it has to do with some issues. But, from our point of view and seeing, above all, the interpretations of the system in the last few weeks, in the last few months, but above all, almost in the last parliamentary debates, it has to do with something quite clear and we don't see the same system. The Government of Galician Union and the People's Party and the Socialists do not see the system at the same point; it corresponds to the Government of Galicia to run the whole system but look at it only at some point, it only sees a part of the system. It's your responsibility to direct a system to what you don't look at. And this is basically the problem, because we believe that, in addition, there are certain debates that are provoked, particularly in a very recent way, that demonstrate that the look or look of the People's Party's Government on the health system and health professionals in Galicia is certainly diverted. To set the clearest example, they existed here -- in which I can tell -- three times -- it may be something else but I think it was at least three -- in this Parliament that recently called for that human resources problem -- which, by the way, is no longer denied, it is already evidence that there is a human resources problem in Sergas, at least something advanced -- and gave a rather worrying explanation. And he focused on a statement made by some of the Members of the People's Party in some debate and reaffirmed the adviser to give him more solemnity. The problem is that there are no doctors who want 60,000 euros a year for three years of work from 8 to 3 p.m. I intend to discuss several things that have to do with the surroundings of that phrase, with the environment. But about that sentence there are three concepts: 60,000 euros, 3 years, from 8 to 3 pm. And I want to transfer to the People's Party something that you might not know about, and it's that neither of the three things is true, neither. None of the three things that are stated in that sentence is true, none, and there is no way to offer a contract because there is no such offer in the current system of Sergas in Galicia, there is no. This contract that was set out here as an argument, as a justification, to say that in the end -- which is what you meant -- professionals are guilty because they don't want to accept those contracts, the reality is that it's a lie. And besides being a lie and being wrong, it's machiavel, and it's dangerous, and this is what motivates us to strengthen this initiative today: it's wrong, it's machiavel and it's dangerous. It's wrong because it's not true, and besides those who said it in the last plenary, the counselor, knows it's a lie and, if you don't know it's a lie, it has a problem; there's no such contract offer, it never existed, never existed. Second, it's machiavel because it's supposed to put the problem on top of professionals, that citizenship can look at professionals and say you're guilty of not having a doctor or a doctor in my health center, because that's what this statement is about. And besides it's dangerous, it's dangerous because interpreting money makes it clear that the intention of the People's Party is to understand health as a market asset. But it's not a market asset, because the health problem we have of human resources is not a money problem, it's not just a money problem. You have to see, of course, the recognition of a job, but it's not just a problem of money because, then, we would understand that all jobs have only interpretation in terms of money. And, of course, some morally -- many, a large majority, an immense majority of the population -- we understand that this is not interpretable, and especially not in the health system either. It's not a problem of money, work is not done solely by a problem of money; the question of human resources has to do with many other things. So it's dangerous and it's machiavel, besides being a lie, and being a lie has the problem, besides, that whoever claims it, who said it, they know it's a lie. There are no such contracts and, therefore, you can't blame professionals. And we also move that it's a lie because it's aligned with an absolutely wrong prism of how the system is. Because the problem with advertising is that whoever makes it believes it's true, and the publicity the People's Party makes about the human resources of the system leads them to believe it's true. Let's look at some great features -- which Les Luthiers would say -- on this matter. The eventuality is at 8% and we walked to 5%, said here counsellor, Mr. Almuña, about two years ago, discussing the eventuality. There's nothing more to talk about. They don't take the claims that we socialists make anymore, they don't even take the claims that professional groups do -- it must be that in this case they don't want to listen to them -- the unions... They don't take any of these. Since we liked the reconstruction committee, let's go to the reconstruction committee: Dr. Tato Vázquez Lima, who came in and talked about a lot of things, put the focus on one of the serious problems: the possibility in the system, which he figures above 20%. Let's focus on nursing professionals. In that same reconstruction committee -- one forgets other issues -- they talked more than 30% in nursing, even exceeding 35% in some health areas, especially in Vigo. And here's the problem, that we have 1 out of every 5, or 1 out of every 4 according to the occupational category, health care professionals in a situation of eventuality, of permanent instability. To say, as we said here, that we're at 8% and we're walking towards 5% is a lie and, in addition, it's a fallacy that has to be a little ashamed to say. And that's the problem. The second question is, "We know very much about work and professional skills," it's a mistake, because facts speak, because professionals today -- primary professionals, by setting a clear example -- do not have the ability to request diagnostic tests as much as they want and as their training allows. They're telling primary professionals that everything they know is very good but that they have to ask permission to do some evidence, which is insulting to their profession. But they're telling the nurses that there's a royal decree in Spain that allows them to prescribe, the People's Party has taken away their ability to prescribe nurses and this current government has returned it two and a half years ago. And Galicia -- which they like to make rankings -- is one of the last three communities to recognize it, it hasn't done it yet; it's been over a year, more than two years ago, that there are autonomous communities where nurses can contribute to untiring the system by making prescriptions. In Galicia they don't have that recognized capacity, why? Because you denigrate the professionals, so don't talk about recognizing them, you talk about professionals, but they don't recognize them. There are no professionals, they often say: 150 MIR squares in Galicia since Mr Feijóo was president and they could have asked for primary care and they don't exist, why? Because it's a political decision not to ask for them. There are no nursing professionals. Two years ago we had a massive opposition in Silleda, 800 squares, presented 8,000 professionals; more than 7,000 were left, therefore, without a square. They've disappeared, or they don't exist, swallowed us to the ground, there's professionals! The stability of contracts: we have contracts of 3 years, lies! Replacement contracts are never 3 years. Let's say at first, if you put the range of 1 to 3 years, what are you going to end up doing? What have they done? Hired for 1 year. The result of continuity contracts? Absolute failure of the Union's policy. "We deal according to the law," who assumed this. May one ever have to pretend to hire according to the law!, not even. Legal rulings that force them to re-contract professionals because they have been dismissed in bad conditions, which are charged with judicial sentences of torture, fraudulent contracts, saturation of professionals, judges, and no one falls in the face of shame. It's all blushing. This week I had the opportunity to be with several professional groups and to visit in a health center the professionals of a center in Galicia, in particular in Baiona, who also asked me to quote it here because they consider them to be paradigmatic of the situation that we are living in. We know that there are nearly 400 health centers or attention points in Galicia, they're one, but they, as far as they know, so we know, so everyone knows, they're certainly paradigmatic. Nurses who stopped being able to come to cooperate with vaccination because they were being naïve and dejected. Nurses who have just bounced from doing four contracts in the same week, one in a health center, another in an emergency hospital, another in neonates, another in a plant; they don't know what time they're going to be playing; people who have two contracts a day sometimes. A professional template that has not been complete for years because casualties are not covered. Baiona, a place -- in case someone doesn't know -- that, normally, in summer, and luckily for the local economy and the county, it's filled with people visiting her -- and we hope that this is the case -- this summer -- you might think that there's a need to increase and we'll be able to debate whether you need to increase the staff much or little -- it's not even expected to be replaced by the bass professionals. You are disregarding the professionals, and you are also disregarding the greatest talent we have in the system, which are the professionals. No one can lead anything by disregarding the greatest talent he has, -- look how Luis Enrique goes without Aspas; for this is the same story -- you can't despise the best we have, who are the professionals. They come up here, they talk about them very well, but then they blame them, and they put them in front of citizenship: that's that doctors are selfish because they don't want 60,000 euros for 3 years of 8-3 afternoon contract. And that's a lie, none of the three things. And to say that, you have to have a lot of stomach, you have to have a lot of lying ability and, besides, you have to have very little look at the system. You're running the whole system, you like to look at some things that work very well, yes, because there are things in the system that work very well, but the system is not done for four specific points, for four specific people or for four specific investments. It is done for a whole country, in which right now its health professionals, who are the best we have, feel that they are absolutely abandoned. And we propose on this initiative, as in many others, to make decisions that are possible, that can be made immediately and that can in part improve the entire human resources system of Sergas, which is to ultimately improve the health care and quality of the Greek citizenship. If that's what they want, that in the end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u60	...one begins to doubt whatever you want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u61	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] I totally agree with the Aspas. [[Laughter]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u62	Thank you, President. I said Mr. Torrado, the author of this initiative that we are debating, that the problem of the People's Party is that I wasn't looking at it. It's just that seeing is what happens when the action to look at succeeds, and you can look and not see. The People's Party looks but doesn't see the health system because, among other things, he doesn't want to see it. At the previous plenary session, the BNG also brought here this plenary for the last time an initiative demanding to improve the working and salary conditions of the employees of the public health in Galicia. An initiative in which we were asking to end the policy of precariousness and exploitation in the procurement by offering decent contracts to prevent them from continuing to trade in the private or foreign sectors. I have to tell you again that, out of 70 professionals who have finished the community-family MIR, they only stayed in primary care 30. It was an initiative on which we demanded to make the contracts for causality that originated and for all the time of it, that is, to hire a person to replace the issue that originated that contract and not for hours or days or hours yes and other hours not. We called for equal pay, also merited by staff, and put in place an identification of the squares, to see what the staff situation in Sergas is, how personal there is and what their situation is. And the People's Party voted against because it considers everything to be all right, that there is absolutely no problem. We also brought to that plenary meeting a question asked by my colleague Manuel Lourenzo about the Guard Health Center, a clear example of how the health centers in our country are. There, in the situation of this health centre, it clearly overcomes structural problems, problems of lack of professionals. And he had the counselor, apart from saying that yes, there's a problem, but he doesn't know how he's going to fix it, he even had the undoubtedness to make sure that displaced people don't go to health centers, which only go to the CAP. I guess it's never been through a health center, and it doesn't look like shifted people, chronic people, who have to put on injectables, who have to make cures, who find themselves ill, who go to health centers. And, in any case, even if they were just the CAPs, there's supposed to be professionals to meet them in those CAPs. Well, in any case, the BNG, as I said, has brought to this forum on multiple occasions the employment situation of Sergas' staff: not causality, but a situation of precariousness, of temporality, the result of 12 years of cutting policies, of deaf ears, of pre-eminence, of order and command with staff. A completely infra-structured health system of professionals, in some specialties, such as nursing, well below the ratios of the Spanish State or the European Union; professionals who have been in a situation of 10, 14 years, i.e., an unacceptable situation, of course. But today I want to bring here the witness, two, two witnesses who... one publisher and one who made us come. I'm telling you to see if you realize that it's not a problem that we invented a reality, but that it's a situation that the professionals have. And the first thing I'm going to read to them is a letter from Amelia, who says, "Good morning, I'm the mother of a nurse. During this year and I peaked, my daughter was fighting this pandemic that attacked us so badly. Time has passed and after successive waves the thing seems to want to get better, though we have to give it time and we'll see what happens. As a mother, I am proud of my daughter, but also of all her companions and companions and of all the staff who fought and continue to fight against the coward. When everything seems to be better, my daughter gets worse, she hit the bottom. All this time he's been avoiding visiting us, we see very little and with many precautions because he was afraid, very afraid to contaminate his family. One good day he said: I can't anymore, I have to go home, I'm sad all day and I just cry. I can't go to the hospital because I feel so sorry for all the people who just cry and need help. He came home but when I remember what he said, I feel like I'm missing my breath. One day, crying, he said to me, "Mommy, I've been alone this year. And so, alone, it's how you feel about most of those who have been and are immersed... [[Applause]] He goes on to say, "So, alone, it's how most of those who have been feel and are immersed in this battle. But I wanted to know how our rulers felt, those who had to put people before their political interests. The Princess of Asturias award is very good, I suppose you already know that many nurses and nurses say that in the curriculum it's going to be sensational. And now I ask -- says this mother -- : can you explain to them why, if nursing is a university degree and has four years of studies, like almost all grades, they're still a level 2 and they can't opt for level A1 even if they have a master's degree? Can you explain why Sergas is still treating them like the last monks and calling these people who fought so much at three and a half o'clock to go to work at three o'clock? Or when a vacation, two days or one, before, when the staff had to ask for two or three months earlier? Can you explain to them why today they take an emergency shift, for example, and tomorrow they send us to the plant or plant people send us to the emergency room? Can you explain to them why they're not trying to give them stability so they can organize their lives? Can you explain to them why nurses are needed and the squares that are called don't meet the needs? Can you explain why the job offer for Sergas is now being offered when we all know that staff haven't had a break for years, for over a year, to prepare an opposition, since most of them have doubled shifts, they haven't been given free days or vacations, and their psychological wear has been enormous? Can you explain to them why they have to pay for psychology consultations from their pocket? Can you explain why, if you can't afford the psychology consultation, you have to wait so long for a public service consultation and this is so short and separated in the shortest possible time? Can you explain to them why if at the moment they are so necessary, they don't hire more specialists in this field, clinical psychologists? Can you explain it to me, as a mother, all this?" Can you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party explain to Amelia any of the questions you ask here on behalf of your daughter? I hope you have some explanation, because the questions that Amelia is asking and that many professionals from our country's health system are going to deserve some explanation. And I'm also going to read briefly the reply that a doctor from that Guard health center makes in a media response to what the advisor here said about contracts. How long I'm just going to read a couple of paragraphs. And he says to this doctor, Alvaro Lamas, on the subject of that contract that Mr. Torrado has laid down here, he says, "They are not of an economic nature our complaints. We're concerned about the quality of care, we're concerned that we can't take care of users on condition, that we're concerned about our physical and mental health and, of course, about our patients. We fear for the future of primary care. For example, they could offer us greater contractual stability and continuity in the same place, or by improving the treatment, even humane, that the big company that Sergas is gives to his own employees, little attention and, above all, often defamated in the press and in parliamentary session." And he also asks a question: "Who wants, having other options, to work where they only get contempt?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh These issues have not been addressed by the BNG, mothers, professionals, as regards the situation in which they work, as regards the situation of professionals and professionals in public health. Because the staff, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are making a lot of efforts and sacrifices to ensure that the situation of deterioration of Galicia's public health is no more evident; they are making an effort to ensure that this situation has not moved more intensely to the patients and by Sergas, the People's Party, instead of compensating them for that effort, it has done nothing but mistreating them, none of them, and disregarding them. That's the reality. The BNG will vote in favour of this initiative brought here today by the Socialist Party, and we present to it an amendment, which is to immediately implement a human resources management plan from which to present a plan of employment stability to negotiate at the sectoral tables with representatives of workers and workers that will enable them to establish a staff framework with appropriate ratios, offer decent care quality, end precariously in recruitment and convene the whole vacant squares. Because ending with precariousness and temporality is summoning squares and stability. And another point in the amendment is to demand that the Spanish Government once and for all carry out the unanimous agreement of this Parliament where we demanded that the Parliament of Galicia urge the Spanish Government to remove, as a basic rule, the rate of replacement of troops in the Budget Act, corresponding to each autonomous community the competence to determine the number of squares to be included in the annual public employment offer. We believe that it must be Galicia who determines how many squares are needed and, of course, summons them all absolutely, all those eliminated with that spare rate, that were several thousand and that they are so necessary for our health system to have a number of suitable professionals to pay that attention that our population needs. Because Galicia's public health system lacks professionals and lacks a policy with these professionals, of course, very different and very different, in order to respect their work and respect them and them as professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u64	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a motion as a result of an inquiry which took place at the last plenary session 15 days ago, to the Health Counsellor. And everyone we were here to hear that the Galician Health Service is the largest employer in all of Galicia. In it they work between 40,000 and 44,000 people depending on the time of the year. Mr. Torrado, 6,000 workers more than when he ruled his party in this autonomous community. [[Applause]] Since 2012 8,112 squares have been convened and in the period 2008-2021 some 4,000 health professional staff members have been incorporated into Sergas' regular staff. If we look at the nursing, 1,000 more than when his party ruled. Mr. Torado, ask Minister Castells what he thinks of the nursing staff, who considers him to be a minor discipline. I don't know if you've read it. And I also want to remember here, because it's not bad to insist again on the commitment of the Government of the People's Party to the Greek health, which in this pandemic year we count on the highest budgets in the whole history of the Community. In health care, specifically, 4,587 million euros, 473 million more than the previous year. And if we talk about resources for health personnel, they've increased by 154 million, 8.5% over the previous year. Establishment of squares, primary care plan, 161 new in the 2021 budget, 15 squares in the home hospital care plan, 120 in the mental health plan, 296 people who joined stable positions. And we have to talk more about this increase of 125 training resident personnel squares. In addition to the professional career. In this month of May, the salary of 13,480 professionals went down the corresponding amount -- yes, Mr. Torrado -- to the career. With the second call formalized in the pandemic year, 10 million euros this year and another 10 million for the year 2022. This is precarious! Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts and realities, they are not false promises, nor are they advertisements that are not executed, as you have been saying, always trying to confuse and twist, and to miss the truth Mr. Torrado, today has passed. They can't keep telling stories, no one will buy them this speech. The reality is what it is, and the Greeks believe them less and less. We have to talk about an investment of EUR 11.9 million in the year 2021 in structural expenditure. And, Mr. Torrado, there are certain and true facts: every year Sergas performs a very high number of administrative and recruitment acts, so it is normal that there is some kind of incidence. We're talking about a company that has between 40,000 and 44,000 employees. And we listened to the counselor, and I remind him today, what he said about the jurisprudence on stability. The recent judgment of the TSX indicates that the extended period of service delivery does not necessarily indicate fraud. You know that the budgetary constraints imposed by laws at the state level since 2009 have made it impossible for years to cover posts with fixed statutory staff, and for vacancies to be covered by the drastic reduction in the rate of replacement of troops, and that justifies the need to go on the way to temporary employment in order to ensure the proper functioning of the public service, so the abuse of temporary recruitment cannot be considered, and justifies that rate of temporality. And, Mr. Torrado, we are still waiting for the Central Government, its Government, the Socialist Government, to eliminate the rate of rest which allows us to convene the pending fees, and which would undoubtedly allow the figures of eventuality to be improved. And in that sense, we agree with the amendment to add the Galician Nationalist Block. You, gentlemen of the opposition, like to talk about a case. The judgments you bring here are specific cases, punctual situations that, of course, need to be resolved, but that in no way represent Sergas's overall human resources management. The European Court itself believes that it is essential for health institutions to make use of temporary employment because of the need to face the burden of work on the staff of painting, which is, among other things, supposed to enjoy, for example, permits, vacations, or even sick leave. The eventuality in health care is a necessary evil. In his motion he was talking about reinforcement plans. You forgot to mention the covid contingency fund, with EUR 115 million, which, thanks to the agreement reached with the trade union organizations, Sergas launched the cover-19 contingency plan on human resources with those 17 personnel measures, and thanks to which sufficient staff could be hired during the pandemic. And in the month of February, in the middle of the third wave, more than 3,000 professionals were hired with functions related to covid and vaccination. The new type of contract was created, the possible appointment by health emergency, which allowed for greater employment stability to staff hired to strengthen the system during the pandemic, and with an initial duration of 6 months, and that 65 % were extended to 1 year in order to meet the highest demand. And that on 1 April this year 199 new links of optional specialists to the MIRs that completed the specialty in May 2020 and were linked throughout that year. The contingency plan has enabled a large number of professionals to stabilize, improving their working conditions and ensuring availability in time of human resources, to respond to new waves, and has also allowed the possibility of deploying additional operational resources within a short period of time. And already before the covid, in early 2019, the unions agreed on the possible appointment of continuity in the categories of family medicine and nursing staff, to grant greater job stability to professionals and to faithful available human resources. And, Mr. Torrado, you miss the truth, you miss the truth and, besides, you say it here with a seriousness and think that the Greeks will believe it. You lie and you know it's a lie, or you don't know reality. You don't like us talking about payrolls, you don't like them, and you better talk about precariousness, and lack of stability. But you have to tell the truth, and that three-year-old continuity appointment is there, and that pay that both the family doctors receive, of more than 60,000 euros, and the nurses, of more than 30,000 euros, with a 7-hour and two-guardian day, is there and, contrary to what you always say, this staff has anticipated schedules. I have to tell him that today, really, he surprised me. You have to tell those 252 continuum contracts there are, and 115 of them already with the vocation of square square square at the end of their vigil, that all this is a lie. You have to tell them. That stabilisation of staff, with those links that avoid successive contracts and that ensure that for the purpose of appointments, after the last three years, Sergas will evaluate this creation of structural squares, is there, Mr. Torrado. You can't come here to tell things that aren't right. And in addition, those contracts are stable, because they stand at the edge of the OPE and the transfer contests during the duration of that contract. But, of course, the best possible formula for achieving greater staff stability is the call for OPE, and for that in this legislation there were already two offers, the 2020 one with 985 licensing squares, health technicians and other categories, and 1,215 squares on the 2021 offer, half of which are to stabilize fixed nursing staff. And, of course, there could be more squares, no doubt, but that's the only way we have to stabilize the staff, and that's why we've been demanding the central government for a long time to eliminate that rate of replacement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's the only way! But far from that, the Government says we're going to be punished by temporality, it seems uncoherent. On the one hand, I won't let you call more squares and, on the other hand, you can't make temporary contracts either. Coherence, Mr. Torrado. What we ask for is coherence,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u66	... -- finished, already -- something the central government is sick of. He's still with the same, the dog's dog, he doesn't eat, he doesn't even eat. I hope, Mr. Torrado, to tell us what your party wants, we don't know. Today he knows that, even though Sergas wants to offer all the squares that require the care needs, and not just the vacancies generated by retirements, it wouldn't be possible. And look, I'm done to tell you what the Counsellor said last plenary: if the State Administration had definitively eliminated the replenishment rate, in the Galician Health Service you could offer about 3,000 steps for the stabilization of the professions of Greek public health. This, combined with the 2,000 already called in this legislation, would add up to those 5,000 squares. You, who seems so convincing and so vehemently with these questions, Mr. Torrado, intercede with your fellow central government parties to eliminate that rest rate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u68	Thank you, president -- I feel very well controlled, don't worry --. Mrs. Prado says that the PP looks but doesn't see, I don't know if the counselor is Vigo and you know that there's Vigo and Morrazo they look... but lately the advisor for Vigo, I think, if he's in politics at Vigo, he's not seeing them, but at the end, that's for another debate, I'm not leaving him. [[Laughter]] I'm starting with what you're talking about a lot, which is fine, and about the amendments, which I think the PP has recently matched a lot with the amendments of BNG. We don't share in replacing the third point, basically because we believe that the training we do in the third one is reasonable, not that the BNG proposes it not to be, but it seems reasonable to us. And about the replenishment rate, there are two things that are raised here: One, ask the State to suppress that reposition. You present that initiative when you want, we're going to do what we've always done, be in favour and claim it. And the second thing we're going to do with the replenishment rate: keep asking to teach us when they asked for it, because the PP talked here many times about asking for it, I asked where, here, supposedly, a letter was read but I'm waiting for that letter, and since 2017, eh! but here no one taught it. It's a paper, it's not so much trouble either. Thirdly, this has already been discussed in the Congress of Members, the proposal to eliminate the replacement rate, you know, in the reconstruction committee. And the three parties we're here voted in favour of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] But it's more. It's just that if you propose me here... Mrs. Friend proposes here, and it would make a lot of sense, I think that this is an agreement where we are going to be, if you really want it, which is that we insist with all vehemence on the state to withdraw the replacement rate. And from there, in addition, associated with that, the commitment of the Galician Union that, as soon as it withdraws, it convenes, not necessarily in a year, in two, all the vacant squares that have been left since 2010. Do you know what's going on? That's what we've proposed here, and you voted against it. Come here to say now: we could do this. But we have already proposed, and they voted against it! Why? Because you want to fight the war with the repositioning rate against the State Government, which is one of the reasons why we're not going to accept the amendment, because we don't want to unfocus the matter. If that's the debate the other day, we have no problem, but we're not going to wash the PP's face. But if you want to talk about it, it's fine, but then you have to come up with the commitment of the Galician Union to hire, because then you don't want to hire. You care about war, but you don't mind hiring. On the issues you say, Mrs. Friend, that are particular cases. He says I lie, and that they are casuistic, but he was not able to deny any of them. We're going to end this problem. I'll make you a proposal. I was going to tell them we were going to the health center in Baiona and we listened to the professionals' cases. But, look, in case they want to, let's do a draw, and we'll draw ten Galician health centers, and we'll go to the Parliament's Health Committee, sit down and listen. Ten, the luck, the touchers, and we heard. Are you ready to do this? It's a proposal like this, verbalized here, it's not very formal, but if they really intend to put it in, let's do it: ten, seven, eleven... if they don't like the number, I'll let them choose the number. Don't do one and ask me for it, eh! it won't be that we go to a consultant's office where there's a militant from the People's Party, which I don't tell them to say no, they're quite against the way Sergas is doing things, but they're pretty disciplined, which is fine. So what reality is it? The reality is that you say, "No, they're caustic, two administrative cases," "torturing and fraudulent contract," that's not a caustic, that's very serious. Or for an anecdotal casuistic, a thing of no relevance, is it going to be graded? No, but if the judges systematically say that there is a wrong contract, if the Board of Auditors says that the accounts are not presented, that is, it's a caciquil, erroneous and problematic administration for the system. And that's the problem. But you come here pretending to be budgeted. Yes, especially with the state budget this year, of course! And all right, all right, use it well, but I put the state on it, of course! And here you make a comparison of today's contracts, on a random day, in Sergas, we click and we pull out the contracts, compared to the stables that were 12 years ago. That's cheating, Mrs. Friend, you're counting 1-day contracts as if they were the same as 12-year-old stables, and that's cheating. So look, you can make up a better trap: do it in one day -- any -- 20,000 contracts an hour, then click it and say, we hire 20,000 people more than the two-party government -- they can do it. Would that make sense? Well, for you, I'm starting to think so, but it would be absurd. Well, that's what you're doing in comparison with the staff. Why did you tell the budget that accounts for stable squares that you have 44,000 people in Sergas? Is that what the budget says? No, they don't compare me prospective staff with stable staff in budgets, because that, in addition to cheating, is a denigration of this Parliament; and it can be worth making a joke to get out of the debate, if you want, in such a silly thing with someone, at a time when they're too tight because they make you... but not here, you can't do that trick because then you're lying. So, from that, what we're thinking is things that we think are sensible, that can be discussed but that go to the axis of the system. There's an instability in the Sergas system. I've told you professionals constantly, I've told you professionals who come here to Parliament. I told them the professional collectives. I told them the unions. We have a level of eventuality that is already unimaginable and unimaginable, we have a problem in health centers that they don't rest professionally by having them. If you move me to 252 contracts -- which means it's all right -- let's do one thing: take out the 252 contracts, one by one -- obviously, no particular data -- and tell me how many of them were hired at 3 years. Almost all of them? No, no, no, no. Or 75%? No, no, no, no. Or 50%? No, no, no, no. Or 30 percent? Not at all. How much did you hire at 3 years old, or 10 percent? And you really want to do the category of that? It's that practically all of the contracts that were announced as 1 to 3 years are 1, and at first you wanted to send them to the next day without telling them where, and they had to change. As the professional career of which they suspect, which was denounced, and you had to change it because there's a court sentence that said it was unfair, and that it was illegitimate, and that it was illegal. That you're pretending to be something that you wanted to do different when legality obliges you and presumes you of them! If you're too used to going to court, but we think politics has to get out of the court! With you this is quite complicated, but in any case we believe that politics must be done by will and not by obligation. And you assume the things that make them do, but they want to deny reality. That's right, they go out here and they say, you're lying a lot. Tell me that, tell me what question I moved to the beginning I lied about, because, if possible, you remove the job contract offer from 60,000 euros for 3 years from 8 to 3...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u70	...at the Guard's health center. Because you know, and I'm not going to tell you it's out of ignorance, as you tell me, no. I say that you know, that today in primary care in Galicia it's impossible for someone, like the system is, to work from 8 to 3 and go home as if nothing had happened. They don't do that, they do too many hours, they cover themselves, they make huge interstitutions, they cover other people's jobs, they do more hours, they go in the afternoon, they help out, they visit outside. They do this out of everything you, with an Excel sheet and a Google maps, they do it in an office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u72	And that's what you call casuistics, and we call it realities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u74	If you lie, tell me what, but don't tell me I'm lying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u76	...because you know it's a lie what you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House Cleaning Services proceeds to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Galician Union on the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u78	No amendments were tabled. To make this motion you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u79	Thank you, President. I wanted to begin my intervention by lamenting that the People's Party -- the Galician leadership and the Oressian leadership -- had not taken advantage of today's plenary to publicly apologize in this gallery and repudiate the mafia conduct of the People's Party of Viana do Bolo that yesterday threatened, slandered, and defamed the former mayor of Second Fernández. [[Applause]] You see, they don't think it's enough for you to buy mayors with traffic jams that have to resort to these kinds of issues. [[Applause]] But I've got some bad news: people in Viana do Bolo and the Galician Nationalist Block are not afraid and it's not going to be of any use to them. Having said this and to focus the issue on this motion that we bring today the debate by the Galician Nationalist Block, I would like to begin with a reflection. And it's because Galicia today lives a true earthquake in energy matter, with two big legs, two big chickens. On the one hand, that constant increase in energy prices. And on the other hand, an energy transition that is being made disorganized and to the service of the oligopolie, which has on the wind boom one of its exponents, but not the only one. And this is the cultivation broth of important social, environmental and economic problems, and there are examples. In this social and economic context where we are moving, for example, we are seeing that all major industrial conflicts have their roots in the price of energy or in the privatization of the energy sector: from Alcoa San Cibrao to Alu Iberica; from Ferroatlantica to As Pontes; and so many other examples. We also see how that accelerated closure of the thermal power plants is being done without correcting the historical aggravatings that there were regarding the marginalization of the coal plans, and also without adequate planning. And we're also seeing that constant increase in the price of energy, exacerbated by a tariff reform that -- we insist -- is inadequate, and then that correction that if you can download the VAT because we also invite that from the Central Government that discharge is higher, be permanent and be accompanied by other measures. In any case, these are many legs of a great earthquake, and in that center of the energy earthquake, of course, is also this wind boom that is raising so many concerns throughout our country, because it is part of the problem instead of being part of the solution. And today from BNG we want to insist on a background reflection, and we have the opportunity to turn it around and make Galicia bet on an energy model designed by us, for us, to be fair, to be German and be sustainable. On the other hand, however, we're watching that disorganized transition -- or rather organized directly by the energy oligopolie -- which only seeks to replace fossil energy sources with other renewable energy sources, but only by measuring its own profit measurement stick. So we understand that this path is wrong and that we have to turn it around. And that's a social cry in our country, from north to south, from east to west, but it's also a cry in mountain communities, in municipalities of all colors, in ecological associations, in associations of all kinds: agrarians, trade unions, environmentals, etc. Because the truth is that the model that's being implemented is a predator model, it's an antisocial model, and it's a colonial model too, and we have to say it with all the letters. [[Applause]] It's a predatory model for the many environmental and custody problems we see throughout our country, with planning in areas that should already be protected and excluded. We are seeing it as an antisocial model because it goes against the rights of neighbouring both in terms of transparency and access to information and application, colliding with social and economic uses of the territories. And today we want to pretend on this issue: a model that is colonial and spoiler, because it means this is a first-order economic problem. And we want to insist because it's a model that is at the top of neoliberalism, it's colonial because it's orchestrated directly by large companies and also by a policy by the Central Government and by the Government of the Union that again helps us with that role that historically took our country of producing power without our exchange being sufficiently compensated and compensated for that role. We assume the environmental, social and economic costs of that paper in exchange for some crumbs. And this is what we've lived for, history is happening again, we're repeating with this uncontrolled wind boom what this country has already experienced with hydraulic energy. And they're repeating the same mistakes as an alien model, a model that comes from franchise, which is not new and we already know how it ends. It is what Otero Pedrayo rightly defined, to the thread of the event of Castrelo de Mine, as energetic feudalism. And today since the BNG we have brought here clear and concrete proposals to combat this model of energy feudalism that continues to evaluate the People's Party. Because right now, we actually repeat history and worsen in the case of wind energy by two fundamental factors. On the one hand, there is no adequate planning. The Union has made a sectoral wind plan which was already obsolete but which, above all, after this Law of administrative simplification, turns the whole territory into an wind carpet; and, on the other hand, we are also seeing how the planned deployment is disproportionate. We want to leave a reflection here, we'll have to see what needs we have as a country and how we have to cover it. And with the latest data from the 2020 Power Network, we confirm that we are leaders in wind, second state community, historical record in terms of Greek, and also that we continue to be surpluses. And by this we don't mean that we don't have to plan more energy development, what we mean is that we don't have to do it this way, in a hurry, going over collective and environmental social rights, and without any kind of control. What we're saying is that we have the margin to make our own planning and that it obeys our interests, we have the margin and we have the right to do so as well. And the German Government is currently trying to self-excuse itself and to shield itself from the fact that not all of the projects requested are going to be a reality. That's so, indeed, but it's also a reality that the planning above the table is that in the coming years we've quadrupled the wind power that we've installed in our country, from nearly 4,000 megawatts to more than 13,000. And so this requires us to stop and ask questions: first, who decides how and how much he needs to produce this country? Do they decide big power companies or do we decide? Do you decide the State Administration or do we decide? We understand, of course, that who is deciding is the board of directors to which the political discharges of the People's Party and the Socialist Party later go. We can quote, I don't know, Bea Mato, Felipe González, Acebes... but now that we've just learned that this gentleman who embraces the Beijóo is asking the Anticorruption right now that he is also being challenged by the cases of Villarejo because I think he's quite told about Iberdrola again from this rostrum. [[Applause]] And we must also ask why, so that we want this development so accelerated and in this way; if we need all that power immediately or if this is orchestrated for foreign interests; and the answer is clear if we see what the monetary and economic outcome in our country is. The Greek municipalities receive less than 5 %, the owners and owners less than 3 %, and the Union collects an irrelevant tax and that in some years has already had an impact on our invoice; therefore, we understand that the answer is clear. We also have to ask ourselves how this development is done. Of course, we understand that this cannot be done in any way and without meeting rational location criteria, because the damage could be irreparable. So with these questions today what we want to do is a call to turn it around, which ceases to be an unfair, old, unsustainable model, and that it is a completely different model. And we propose three guiding principles for this: firstly, management; secondly, planning and public participation; and finally, defending self-government and the interests of our country. We defend that there is a ordination -- and we insist again -- we need an up-to-date sectoral wind plan that enables new areas of exclusion, given the parameters that should already be protected, and also taking into account the new dimensions of this technology. And, we insist, public participation, we have to give the absolutely energy- privatizing model, its management and its installation. Because let's imagine for a moment that all the multimillionaire benefits that our wind generates could come in one part directly to bet, for example, by the generation of value added in the primary sector; it would be quite different from the present and the future of this country. We therefore propose three very clear questions: public participation, both in the Union and in the municipalities as well as in mountain communities. Because it's not to be welcomed that in this country there are Norwegian, Italian, Portuguese public capitals from all parts of the world but the Union's own and the country's own. We also propose linking the new facilities to industrial development plans, because they have to be associated with initiatives on the territory that also leave an impact and an economic return. [[Applause]] And they also have to be associated with, for example, that some of the components are made in this country to prevent one Siemens Gamesa after another. And finally, we also insist on defending self-government and the interests of the Greeks. We've recently seen that propagandistic boom in the Galician Union, which suddenly put on the greenish shirt and which says the central government is very bad and wants to make very bad wind farms in this country. We agree on one part of the substance of the matter, because there are state-owned projects that would be harmful to this country and that must be stopped, but we must also go to the bottom of the issue and that is what we propose today: that the Union stop using that self-government to parapet and claim it as a solution. Wind planning we defend that it has to be entirely Welsh. So we would go to the center of the issue, because the only thing the People's Party is doing is trying to distract us, to try to figure out that it's defending the Greek interests when we actually know it doesn't even have the regulatory capacity to do so. I'm going to test myself, because one of the projects Mr. Count said here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u80	Thank you. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u81	...who had reported negatively, Barxas's report, continues its processing. So, -- I've already finished, president -- these three lines of action: planning, defending interests and self-government, as well as public participation and planning. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u83	Thank you, President. I want to start by thanking the rest of the groups for the change in the agenda, and for the Bureau too, so that we can go to vaccination and take advantage of it to give thanks and congratulations to all the Sergas professionals, who do a great job and who make us all get vaccinated quickly and safely. [[Applause]] Another fuller debate about the wind sector and, gentlemen of the People's Party, with its inaction and lack of transparency are getting what was formerly something wanted by the citizenry now to have an answer anywhere in Galicia where you want to build a wind park. It is incomprehensible that the only reaction of the German Government and the People's Party to the problems generated by the current model is to take Sun Tzu's sentence in The Art of War which said the best defense is a good attack, and activate the only resource that the German Government has to try to justify its futility, to blame the state government in Spain again for everything they are unable to manage from here. Once again for the People's Party, evil Sánchez as guilty of everything. It turns out that the lack of planning of our territory, the lack of protection of our environment, the lack of enlargement of the Natura Network, the lack of protection of our wetlands, the lack of a fair economic return to the population and municipalities is the fault of Pedro Sánchez, and that today there is no project of more than 50 megawatts authorized in Galicia. The only thing that happens to the People's Party to defend their failure to manage and plan is to blame the Government of the State for complying with the law and to process the projects that they have to evaluate, because of their competence to have more than 50 megawatts, whether that affirmative or negative procedure. In this competition that the People's Party has for being more nationalist than nationalism itself, it is not that they ask the State to report negatively on projects of more than 50 megawatts that do not comply urbanistically or that do not comply with our environmental legislation, or that they break our territory; they ask them not to pass them because they are interested in putting their focus elsewhere in the face of their inability to do something. Obviously, nationalism beats them on their land, and not only asks for any wind project to be paralyzed that analyses the state but also asks for it not to be the state that authorizes those projects, they ask for the law to be changed to be done by the Galician Union. It's funny that a short time ago they asked that projects of more than 50 megawatts should not be divided into several projects to have a better analysis of the environmental impact, and that the Galician Union is now asked to evaluate all projects. Once again nationalism is trying to address the problems of bad planning towards sovereignty as a way of solving all problems, when it's important that projects are analysed so that they don't harm our territory, who doesn't do so, since, when analysed by the State, they have to have the previous reports of the self-government and they will also have those of the State, which should have a greater guarantee. Except that we're trying to take this issue into the ideological field, making us believe that because it's managed from the autonomics, it's going to be better and without taking energy planning into account as something global and balanced between the citizenship of the whole country. The Socialist Group is concerned about the debate about the problems that exist in the territory, about what ends up in ideological matters, about the fact that we are not moving forward to modernise the sectoral plan, with planning that dates back to 1997 and that the Government of Greece has not even submitted to strategic environmental assessment. They worry that they don't open up the possibility of increasing the distances that windmills can install from the dwellings, and I don't think it was the Government of Sánchez that made us here at least 500 meters away from the rural core and in Asturias and in Valencia they're 1,000 meters away at least. We are concerned that we do not seek to protect the activities of our primary sector, we are concerned that we do not protect areas that ten years after the announcement of the expansion of the Natura Network is still unprotected today. We are concerned that we have not used instruments such as the Wetlands Inventory to protect the turbulence and briers from our territory, and that do not now contain these areas in environmental impact studies or that we have not transmitted this information to the Ministry of the Environment. We are concerned that our cultural heritage is not protected and that we have to see it happened with Castro Lupario, in which the Galician Union was unable to report on the cultural importance of the area and gave authorizations to a high-voltage line without the negative reports of the heritage department. That's what worries us, that, after more than 10 years of the statement of the Traba Falls and Pasarela as a protected landscape, the Galician Union, which had the legal obligation to draw up a management plan, we're still waiting for it and that a project of wind development appears in that space. [[Applause]] I mean, we're concerned about what we don't do with our powers, not with those that have other administrations. From the Socialist Group we again take advantage of this motion which once again presents the most populist face of nationalism, speaking of sovereignty... -- don't laugh, gentlemen of the BNG --... speaking of energy sovereignty or intervening the free market as medicine for all problems, to ask the Government to open the debate on changing the real problems of the deployment of wind energy in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Let them do something to demonstrate to the citizen that the Government is next to it and that they don't work to benefit the interests of the energy companies, those that put their partner Bea Mato on the board of directors and that, together with some other company in the sector, they're creating a bubble of wind projects without any end but speculative, causing problems in the territory and also in the wind sector itself, which is very concerned about the situation we're currently living, and which they themselves define as the jungle. [[Applause]] From our group we know that the wind sector is important to Galicia, that in 2019 it represented a total contribution to the German GDP -- don't laugh, don't laugh, Mr. BNG, because that's true -- that represented almost 600 million euros to the German GDP. It amounts to 0.9% in that 2019, and that it had also associated jobs directly and indirectly from nearly 60,000 workers, a data that may seem less important to BNG, even laughing at them; that it calls for linking industrial projects to park authorizations, when this linkage is already included in the current state mail systems and that we do not find their legal use to link their own authorizations. But what is really important for employment is that this implantation, whenever done in an orderly manner, is not completely paralyzed, because a paralysis can mean the loss of many jobs in this sector in Galicia. And what can't be, is that because of that mock bubble of wind projects during 2020, the German Government gave only 6 authorizations and during the whole of 2021, only one project was authorized, because the sector needs to guarantee a minimum workload. And, gentlemen of the BNG, you can't blow and climb at the same time, you can't ask for the total paralysis of the sector and at the same time ask for the creation of industrial activity and jobs. It's not consistent that the same ones that in four years allowed the deployment of more than twice as much wind energy that in the 12 years of Feijóo ask to paralyze everything. [[Applause]] They must protect the territory but help promote activity wherever it is desirable. I'm sure you're appreciated by business workers like GRI Towers, building towers in Carballino, generators for dress turbines in Viveiro, the repair of Gamesa in Oroso or Norvento in Vilalba, among others. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not refuse to change the rules. If they did it in 2017 and also in 2021 to shorten the deadlines for managing the deployment of wind energy, those themselves who want to expand at the state level could also open up the changes to protect our citizenship and our heritage. You, who have recently established that wind power can be implanted outside the wind development areas and have also allowed the environmental inspection service to develop private companies. They can increase the minimum distance at which the mills of the dwellings must be located. They should study what is happening with the appearance of these unabated polygonal surfaces that appear implanted in wind farms projects, which change the conditions under which the properties of many neighbors that receive no economic benefit from the deployment of these wind farms, but they see limited the possibilities of their property and diminished the value of these, which in many cases cost too much time and work to get. They quickly expand the Natura Network, which has been blocked for 10 years, protecting the valuable wetlands of Galicia. They should include the turbulence that exists in the inventory of wetlands provided for by their own self-regulatory regulations that for over a decade have not yet developed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they put the means to improve the income of the owners by balancing the negotiations between owners and promoters with the publication of that standard contract so that citizens can be able to negotiate with the promoters, and create a public base of price information reached in the negotiations to be able to inform the population. They change the regulatory framework to get again that, in order to arrive at the declaration of public utility on a land and that a promoter achieves expropriation, it is necessary to justify the existence of a negotiation and the possibility of reaching agreements. A condition that you have modified and should be re-exposed. They increase the economic impact on the municipalities and rural communities by modifying the current regulation so that the wind canon is established by the power installed in parks and not by mills, at a time when we all know that fewer mills are installed but of greater size and power. And they must also change the distribution of the Environmental Compensation Fund, which is now very opaque, and which should be shared with objective criteria, acting directly in the communities affected by the installation of wind farms. Finally, in the case of wind farms located in neighboring mountain communities, we suggest again that, as the Principality of Asturias does, they change the law so that the income they receive from the owners is not less than 3% of the value of the profits obtained by the promoter. These are our proposals and we continue to ask the People's Party to make changes and to act in a sector that should be attractive to citizenship and not harmful as it is at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u84	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I, Mr. Seco, -- I don't see him right now, but I'm going to talk to him the same way -- I think what I would have to do, as soon as he started his intervention, after congratulating the healthcare staff, who's all right, is to apologize here for last week, voting against harmonizing and lowering the EVV as requested here. It's ridiculous, extreme ridiculous that they did here, they once stopped following Mr. Sánchez, get on the side of the Greeks because they leave them with their ass in the air, Mr. Seco. Shame, apologizing is what I had to do. [[Applause]] Look, the truth is, Mrs. Presas, she's talking about self-government. Come here to talk, ask Mr. Sánchez something, it seems to me like such a hypocrisy. Look, you've bred Mr. Sánchez to the Government in Madrid and you hold him there, and in all the mayoral offices here in Galicia, where you can, where you lose the cogobern elections with the PSOE. So it's such hypocrisy that, look!, it's reaching a point that I think they should change BNG to BHG. Which is Galego Hypocrisy Block, Your Honor, that's reality, and I think they should change N by H. [[Laughter]] And look, the reality is that in Galicia we have a sectoral wind plan that defines where you can and where you can't install aerogeors, and a law of reactivation -- which hurts you that we approve here with your negative vote -- which prevents you, which reinforces the idea that you can't put aerogeors out of those areas, just at times and in projects of clear territorial impact -- listen, see if you learn a little -- of clear territorial entity, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] And that's why and thanks to that law, this government has reported negatively 36 projects, because they fail, Mr. Seco, the management, the Greek wind plan. That's why they were misinformed. Our model is to make economic activity and employment compatible with the protection of natural heritage and also the environment. And we agree with an orderly development of wind energy in Galicia, and that's what's been done so far. That's what we've been doing so far, and all of these projects -- that we repeat to satiety -- if we undergo an ordinary environmental assessment, one that follows state legislation, which is the same for all communities, and which has been reinforced since 2009 with the refusal to install wind projects on the Natura Network. And all this was added in 2019 to the Natural Heritage Act, which in its Article 2 gives priority to environmental protection over territorial or urban management, and also establishes caution in interventions that may affect natural heritage or biodiversity. And we are aware of the natural values that have been protecting our community for many years, and of course we have great respect for its conservation. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, 77.5% of the territory of Greece is shielded against the installation of wind turbines. That's the reality. And you're talking here about project authorizations that are still starting their processing, and they're talking about propaganda. Maybe yesterday's propaganda was the one at Xanceda House, maybe it was giving the bottle to a cow, maybe that's not Propaganda Look, the reality is that the Xanceda House project has been running since 2018, and it's processing, it's not authorized. [[Laughter]] Neither that nor many others you give permission to, because you believe that from the Galician Nationalist Block and from the opposition they give permission to wind farms. [[Murmurs.]] No, authorizations to wind farms dance after a long processing, and strict: 13 reports from sectoral organs,. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Listen, Mrs. Rodil, who I am going to appoint the sectoral bodies, which are thirteen, so that they understand the reports that have to be given before a sectoral plan is adopted: the General Directorate for Territorial Management and Urbanism; the General Directorate for Environmental Quality; the General Directorate for Natural Heritage; the Directorate for Cultural Heritage; the Institute for Territorial Studies; Galician Waters; the General Directorate for Public Health; the Directorate for Emergency and Interior; the Directorate for Tourism of Galicia; the Directorate for Infrastructure; the Department for Planning and Forest Planning; the Institute for Mountain Defence; and the Directorate for Rural Development. Three reports from sectoral bodies are the ones that have to make a good sense to get the projects going! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That, what you're doing is to infuse falsehoods, not approved projects, ladies and gentlemen, and what you're trying to do is to transmit fear. [[Applause]] Look, processing doesn't mean authorizing, ladies and gentlemen, and when they talk about lack of economic return or employment, we've already commented on it on many occasions here: 7,000 jobs, which for you, between direct and indirect, are insignificant; 581 million euros, almost 1% of GDP, which are not counting either; new companies that have been created, an auxiliary industry network, manufacturing equipment and components, electrical fittings, maintenance operations, which is one of the key operations in the profitability of the wind sector. I understand that you don't understand it, but, well, I wouldn't have enough time to explain it to you. [[Murmurs.]] Look, companies like GRI are created, like Gestan, like Vestas, like CT Engineers, and others of Italian social capital. You guys... are giving these companies allergies, they're allergic, they're being sarpulated, but we're not. Look, since 2019, these companies have been paying a lot of taxes: 130 million euros in taxes, 28 million euros for corporate tax, 29 -- Mr President, it's very difficult to intervene like this -- ; 29.6 million for electricity production taxes, 37 million euros for municipal taxes, and 11 million euros for incomes for the use of the ground; and around 23 million for the wind canon created by this Government, and so criticized by you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] The other day Mrs. Presas read here an interview with the mayor of Muras, but she read or agreed to it, she didn't give the data she was saying during the entire interview. And look, the Wall Council, the municipality, as you well said, with more airlines in Spain practically, because it has received from the Environmental Compensation Fund, since 2010, to such insignificant amount of EUR 6.4 million; an average of EUR 577,000 per year, which, in view of the Wall budget -- see? This is the question, these people who like you so much, it's also done with milk, but no, this is paper --. [[Mrs. Novoa shows a sheet with a chart.]] Look, Wall Budget: EUR 1,900,000, and you know? 30 %, 577,000 euros, of the wind canon. How much did you give? And do you know how much you use to pay for the light to the neighbors? 65,000, it's yellow; purple is the rest: 30 % [[Applause]] So how much did you give to the municipalities when they ruled? When the Industry Council was in your power, how much did you give them, gentlemen? Zero, zero euros, this is reality, and this is what Mrs. Presas doesn't tell. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Presas read the intervention of the mayor of Muras, a little boy, but she didn't read it completely. Look, of course we have a totally different model, but that's obvious. But it's clear what choices most of the people of Greece choose, because they have to see both sides, right? And we are in favour of the company, of course, yes, and any company of any size can create a wind project, Mrs. Presas. And you know that. And we're in favor of self-consumption. Yes, and are we in favour of energy communities? You too. But we don't extinguish the wind renewable energy, Mrs. Presas. You guys, at the weekend, put the sign in front of the embalms, too. What's the renewable energy they need? Not the wind, not the hydraulics, what? What, don't you spy on? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they're coming with me, ma'am! Flashboard greenists, lie greenists lying! [[Applause]] Read, see, read Grepemacece's articles, which cover the windmills. It's just that, Your Honor, you can't detach wind energy like you're doing. Look, what you're doing is political hypocrisy, political hypocrisy, Mrs. Presas. That's what you guys do. You can't come here and say yes but not so. No, it's a lie, you're not worth anything, you're not worth any wind farm. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because I have the initiatives, and they're against everyone. And the worst, they're all approved and they're disenfranchised. That's not the case, the Greek officials have the same responsibility as the state officials, and they do the same legislation, Mrs. Presas, and what they want... weak favors make our public service, which they defend when they want, when they want. His model is a public energy company, a Greek tariff. Hey, but they have a Congressman and a pact between Ana and Adriana, he had written it down. You want me to bring you what I put on? "We'll study the Greek fare." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, they haven't studied it yet, hey, claim it to them, don't come and ask Mr. Feijóo for the Greek fare, or a public energy company. Mrs. Presas, they're not German powers, they call on Mr. Sánchez, and they don't aupend it in Madrid, they don't support it in all the Greek municipalities, because if they wanted to put pressure on it, they could put pressure on it. Yes or no? Because they're ruling in many places, in cities, in deputies. Why don't you use that? Oh, no! because the charge, gentlemen, is very important, that's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Presas, last week we had to see how Valdeorras was talking about mining, against mining. Four years talking against mining and they'll talk there to the stone miners! Please, a little stink, a little stink, ladies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is, what they're doing is a little ridiculous. Nothing else on my part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Yes, what do you want the word for, Mr. Martín Seco? I can't hear you. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u87	I say I asked for the voice for Rule 76.3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u88	Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, sovereignty doesn't solve everything, but it certainly solves a lot more problems than the overwhelming Spanishism to which you seem to be attached lately. [[Applause]] It's going to be a surprise!, the BNG claims -- a nationalist organization -- that energy planning can be done from this country and for this country. Surprise! Nobody's ever expected anything like this from the Galician Nationalist Block, less bad that they're there in the hemerotheca of history the amendments to the processing of the law of the electric sector, etc. But, of course, if BNG says it's ideology, that the state wants to compete in the field of energy planning already above that it has, and invades the regional planning of Greece, that's good roll, it's not ideology, it's something else. Anyway... [[Applause]] Look, I'm just telling them to get confused again as an enemy. There's a pleno we were opportunists asking for the LVI discount and now you're starting the LVI discount, it seems, at last. [[Murmurs.]] I really... now we're populists, in the end... laughing for not crying. [[Applause]] By the way, Mrs. Novoa, you also voted against lowering the EVI in the previous plenary session, don't do selective amnesia. [[Applause]] In any case, what I'm asking is that the arguments be drawn up a little bit, because, of course, come here and say that with this proposal that we bring from BNG we're asking that the projects be broken down... I don't know if the socialists have time to analyze the state projects that are being processed. It's just, look, the three of StartGroup's, the two of them are entirely in the Ourense area, they're fragmented, they share evacuation infrastructure. We can go to Cerdedo-Cotobade, see that of Sirocco and Tramontana, they share evacuation infrastructure, they're a fragmentation. So you apply the story a little bit, and you ask the Government of the State for the same thing as you ask the Board. Of course, since they come here to lie, to say that the posses are linked to industrial development plans, when they didn't even meet the demands of the comarcas like those of the Bridges, who are fighting for a fair energy transition, and who are asking for specific positions for their territories, and that Endesa, for example, can't go down the blind and then get wind megawatts, is to miss the truth. [[Applause]] And I would also ask that, in order to give the debates with a little honesty, PP and PSOE read a little bit of what is proposed in the initiatives. We are not proposing a global paralysis here, we propose paralyzing those projects of more than 50 megawatts, which affect areas of the Natura Network or enlargement of the Natura Network, which is something that you in theory also ask the Government of the Union, and that they collide with the sectoral wind planning of this country. What happens, if Mr. Feijóo does it is evil, if he does it Pedro Sánchez is okay? Well, look, from the BNG we have very clear that our measuring stick and our demands are marked by the interests of this country, and that we don't care what it must be against Mr. Feijóo or Mr. Sánchez, because it will be in favour of this country. Perhaps that's what explains that if you see them so united in anti-nationalism. [[Applause]] In any case, in the last plenary session Mr. Conde accused us of boycotting the wind and the Welsh industry for pure ideology, and Mrs. Novoa followed in the same line. And we're telling them who the boycott is you with your pleasure. I'm glad Mrs. Novoa follows the BNG schedule so much. I'm glad about that, and I'm going to say, to the Great House of Xanceda I hope they don't put an X now because it was Mrs. Pontón, because before Mr. Feijó went, I'm not going to come in and discuss who has the best way to feed the cows, that the photos are for them to check. [[Laughter]] Anyway, do you know what they said there? Do you know what the owners of this farm said there? [[Laughter]] They took 100,000 euros spent, 100,000 euros to make reports to defend themselves from that wind boom. [[Murmurs.]] Imagine if those 100,000 euros were able to revert to their added value, and if more there was public participation in the energy sector that would ensure that a percentage could revert to strategic projects like this. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Imagine what country we would have. And, look, since I'm running out of time, besides reminding you that what I read from the mayor of Muras wasn't an interview, it was an article in the Galician Lights, I'll give you a copy when I want you to read it all out. Since I don't have time, just two last questions. [[Murmurs.]] What we're asking for is basically the clear proposals, which would avoid the problems that are happening with the state's wind farms, because what matters to us is that they are solved, not to have an excuse for you to continue doing what they want, planning, management, public participation in the sector's benefits, and defending the Greek interests. But, look, I'm finished with a last thought, since you liked our visit to the mining chamber in Valdeorras. Do you know what one of the owners of a small company in the Valdeorras area told us there? He told us, when BNG arrived at the bipartisan, we thought the world was over, and then nothing happened. And you know what happened at that meeting? No, no, no, let me finish. [[Laughter]] And another one who was saying: yes, it happened, that they were aware of the circumstances, that they worked a lot for us, that they developed the first Law of Galician mining, and that Anxo Calvo and Fernando Blanco did a magnificent job and that they bet on this part of the country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] So, you can still be installed, some and some, in this caricature...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u91	...that here the BNG comes with horns and tails eating people, because they don't fool anyone anymore, because we have an alternative for this country and also in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u93	And that's what concerns each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u94	Thank you. [[Mr. Seco García asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Seco? What do you want the word for, please? [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u95	On the basis of Article 76.3 of the Regulation, for allusions affecting the decoration or dignity of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u96	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u97	I wanted to ask Mrs. Novoa to withdraw...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u98	No, no, but wait, sorry. I'm sorry. I'll tell you. Let's see, you were in the debate, you were taking part in the debate. These allusions value the presidency. I didn't notice anything that was lacking in the dignity of the group. No, no, sorry, I've been quite careful, so... yeah, yeah, well, I understand you say what you're interested in, but I've been careful, so... No, but it doesn't. I haven't noticed any lack of dignity towards the group. [[Murmurs.]] No, none. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, none. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mr. Seco, you don't have the floor. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I have seen a normal confrontation within what is a Parliament. So the word doesn't come out. No, no, it doesn't. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't work. It doesn't work. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Dry, it's not coming! It doesn't work! Please. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's not. You're not in the use of the word. That's it! Let's vote... let's vote... No, I'm already listening and I'm reasoning with you. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. It's over! Let's vote. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, Mr. Dry, you have no word. No, I'm not giving it to her because she doesn't. It doesn't work. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't work. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't work. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, you have already told me, because of an allusion that concerns the dignity of the group, the Presidency has not valued it, and that is a responsibility of the Presidency, and I have been attentive to the debate. Nothing else. It's over. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's over. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's an expression of political confrontation, please. Get a little irony. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But we shall vote, ladies and gentlemen. Let's vote. Motions vote We started by voting on this last motion from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group -- because they know there was a change -- at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Galician Union with regard to the wind sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u99	We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. I understood I didn't accept the amendments. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the management of human resources in the Galego Health Service The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u100	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonso. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the policy of the Galician Union in respect of the automotive sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u101	The motion votes have been finished here. Agenda Change And we continue with another change in the agenda. In this case, we're going with the interrogations now. Interpellation G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the incompatibility of Galician social inclusion income with the perception of vital minimum income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u102	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodil. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today we brought this question and asked him a question about the same subject just a few weeks ago. But we bring it back today's debate, firstly, because we haven't had enough time in a question to address in depth the question of what we are talking about, especially from the central point of view, of those claims that the Board is making to people who are beneficiaries of the Risk once they are granted with retroactive effect the minimum vital income; we haven't had enough time to address the issue in depth. But then also because since the BNG we don't want this to happen without pain or glory, as if nothing was happening, or as if we could ventilate it in the 3-6 minutes when a question is solved in this plenary session, all the time -- I insist -- that there are claims that amount to more than 5,000 euros in some cases, that are being asked or claimed -- it is worth redundancy -- people who only have an economic benefit -- in this case risk -- or when it is replaced by the minimum vital income. We will deepen much on the responsibilities because there are, and shared, but all of this because of not wanting, one, to make an exceptional decision, given the exceptional situation in which we find ourselves, which we propose to you just a few weeks ago, which is to adopt a similar agreement by the Government of Galician Union, as others have done -- the canary case, without going further -- and by not speeding up a process of reform of a law that has been in force in this country since 2013 and which cannot surprise anyone we find ourselves in the situation in which we find ourselves now. And in this sense, I want to focus a little on our intervention, that of our group, around two ideas: one, the social consequences, the human consequences of this situation, because we can often lead us to believe that we're talking about numbers or that we're talking about statistics; and what we're talking about is people, people, besides, extremely vulnerable people, who find themselves in a very precarious economic situation, if they wouldn't benefit from these kinds of benefits. And secondly, a second idea, which is where to go, because we don't want to stay alone and exclusively -- we never do it from BNG -- in criticism, but also in bringing up alternatives to solve this problem. And it's a problem where you're being called "undeserved collections" -- and I'm opening quotes, literally -- to the writings, to the documents that come to these people who would benefit from the Risk as if they were fraudsters, as if they were committing an administrative irregularity. Formally that's what the law says it's like, it's an incompatibility to the collection, to the perception of these two aids, but almost treating them as if they were -- understand me -- criminals, as if they were committing will fraud, when they're not. Indeed, they are victims of a problem that was generated by the administration itself, of a problem that is generated, among other things, by the inability of two governments, one, to listen; two, to agree; and three, to seek a solution to a problem. We're going now to share the responsibilities -- advisor, don't blow --. We, in any case -- I insist -- do not accept that here, because there are responsibilities in the Government of Spain, the position of the Galician Union is to shorten the bulk or patch it -- then we talk about the measures they have taken --, patch for certain cases, speeding up payments to 30 months or forgiving 50% of the Iprem when there is a minor and prior report of the social services. And wait till... we don't know very well what, because we've been talking about this incompatibility... I've been looking for agreements and debates today about the incompatibilities between Risk and the minimum vital income, and the agreements we've been able to reach in this House since December. On December 9, it was the first agreement of this Plenary and the BNG instances were already requested at that time that the Galician Board will move as soon as possible the necessary regulatory changes to ensure the complementarity of the Risk and the vital minimum income to facilitate the transition to a single income; on December 9th -- 6 months! -- and in the last conversation that you and I had on this issue, just a few weeks ago, tell us: we have to keep waiting; and in the next semester. But, of course, it's here that we put this back here, that there are people who have no income more than a social benefit, who are the ones who are claiming them bills of 3,000, 4,000 and 5,000 euros, as we shall now see. And that's the first part, because they're not statistics or numbers, they're meat and bone people, they're human beings. And today I wanted to bring precisely who is suffering this situation, who they are, and we thank them immensely for the community social services of this country which, with all the privacy and the safeguarding of the privacy of people, allowed us to bring three concrete, concrete and real cases, which are now the victims of this situation. The first, a marriage of return emigrants over 60 years. They received something more than 550 euros a month from Risga, 550 euros, only income! They live in a housing rented by 290 euros monthly, they must return to the Administration -- to the Galician Union -- EUR 5,341.80. In case two: a woman over 50 years old, with a low level of education, a basic risk profile, which resides in sub-life -- as reported by Social Services -- received 423.38 euros a month, must return 4,115 euros. In case three: female victims of male violence -- and so it is in the administration -- with dependent children, reside on a rented apartment, which pays 350 euros a month, it must return 3,229.80 euros. He knew of Risk just over 300 euros, the basic to pay rent every month; from there he pays the college, pays the food, pays that child or that child has a decent situation and living conditions. I insist, extremely vulnerable people who have no more income than this benefit and who have become debtors of the Administration without any responsibility for any of the situations that have arisen. Because they have no fault of anything that's happening but that goes to their backs because it's the ones that have to pay the Administration now -- I insist -- amounts that go beyond 3,000, 4,000 and 5,000 euros. They're actually taking their heads off a situation that wasn't generated by them or by them. And what corresponds to the administration, and to this House, too, and to the rest of the political forces that we integrate it, is to find solutions to this situation. And who's responsible? We're going to the responsibilities, which are for everyone, indeed. The responsible is the German Government, but so is the Spanish Government. The Galician Board -- we just told you a few weeks ago in this plenary -- is a primary responsibility because -- we have often insisted on this House -- the 2013 Social Inclusion Act is that it is, it's been so, it's been in force for many years and there, it's already been specified that Risk is incompatible with other benefits of the same nature, as is the case of the minimum vital income since it was created. And we all knew it, the first of you: the minimum income, already in Royal Decree 20/2020 -- and it's not that we're going to give soap here to the Government of Spain -- is compatible with other benefits. That's right, it's introduced and it's therefore compatible with autonomous incomes. That didn't change in all the successive amendments to that regulation that the Government of the State has made. But actually, you're not the only ones responsible for what's going on, I won't deny it there, and we've also said it many times since BNG. What's going on with minimum vital income management has no name, it has no name. That's, in addition, causing enormous frustration. It's huge because the stick was very high, very high, and the result, besides... or this problem is the result, among other things, of two fundamental issues. [[Applause]] One, the refusal to create automatic gateways for people who would benefit from autonomic benefits. I mean, a person who would benefit from the Risk and who, as he meets harsher conditions than those that establish the minimum vital income, would meet the conditions to be able to benefit from the minimum vital income, can do it automatically. No, here's what you have to ask for and wait, as we're seeing, six months there so far, until, if you're recognized by that right, you get paid, you actually, what you're entitled to by law retroactively, and then you come to Junta to claim you 5,000 euros, so to speak. In fact, these gateways have not been created, which we have already seen claiming that they are believed -- I have also brought up the parliamentary agreement -- since April 8, 2021, by an agreement of the 5th Commission, in addition, between the People's Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. Those little birds haven't been created, and then, too, that centralist fanaticism, we've just witnessed a little bit of it again now -- if so, that's right, that the faces are falling off is also great --. And that centralist fanaticism that he prefers to acquire powers, even if that means denying social rights to the most vulnerable population in the whole of the state. [[Applause]] And this is a good example of that, precisely, of wanting to continue to capture and centralize the management of the minimum vital income, although that assumes that there are people who are waiting for a benefit they have right for months or who often do not even get it. What we want today is to ask them when it's going to be changed, when the necessary measures will be put on an urgent basis so that these claims will not continue to be produced. And secondly -- and with this ending -- then I'll talk a little more about the proposals for reform of the Social Inclusion and Risk Act, when, but concrete, when and where, that is, in what way will the Social Inclusion and Risk Act be changed to ensure not only the complementarity or non-incompatibility of both benefits, but also to walk towards an income guarantee income that allows people in this country to live with dignity, whether or not they have a job. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members. Ms. Rodil, although the revolutionary concept of eternal return was coined by Nietzsche, surely no reader has reproduced it with such beauty as Milan Kundera in his unbearable ease of being: to think that there will ever be a repetition of everything as we already live, and even that repetition must be repeated to the infinite. I don't know if you want to emulate or even overcome the German philosopher or the Czech novelist today, but what I'm surprised is that we've been seeing each other again in this same Chamber and with the same subject that we discussed here in this Parliament less than a month ago. Just as I sincerely appreciated your attempt, which I also understood was sincere, to reflect on such a matter of concern and so delicate, today gives me the feeling that, with this interpellation, what you want is to obtain a political recitation of a matter which by its seriousness lends itself to a few frivolities. I'll try to explain to you the position of the Galician Union with the same seriousness as I moved it back then. I don't think it's for any good to inform the Greek Government of any misappropriation to the administration, and even less when it comes to people who are in need. But above our political preferences, there is always compliance with the law. And in this case it is the Social Inclusion Act of 2013, which, like most of the similar regulations of the other autonomous communities, establishes the incompatibility of Risk with any other benefit of equal or greater amount than that of a non-contributory pension. And it's reasonable that we're talking about a last resort benefit, as you said. In June 2020, as you will recall, we were leaving the first state of alarm. The Galician Union was in office and the Galician Parliament had suspended its ordinary activity. And in this context, the minimum vital income has been set in motion. No one doubt at all that vital minimum income is a necessary benefit, but also from the very beginning, since it began to talk about this help, we have been many self-governments who have warned us that their design and their approval were not the right ones. We warned that the Social Security did not have the capacity to manage this income and that there would be great delays. We have warned that there would be imbalances between the state benefit and the autonomous incomes, which have existed for several decades. And we warned you there would be overlaps and doubles. I, Mrs. Rodil, don't talk to him about hearings, because I myself had several meetings with the Secretary Minister and former President Pablo Iglesias, and I also know that President Feijóo and many more autonomic leaders have moved his concern at the President's Conference to President Sánchez. We call on the Central Government to take all necessary measures to facilitate the coexistence of vital minimum income and autonomous income, or at least to allow it until the laws of the different autonomous communities can be changed. I'd like nothing more than to be able to say that our concerns were unfounded, but unfortunately all our wishes were met. Time gave us reason, but in a matter so delicate, so sensitive and as worrisome as this one, whether you are right or not, it doesn't matter, because what we are concerned about is to solve this situation caused by the rush and the improvisation of the Central Government once again. And we had three plans: plan A, plan B and plan C. Plan A was a quick reform of the Social Inclusion Act to adapt it to the new panorama. But for this, you should know exactly how the minimum income is regulated, because the royal decree was so well done that it had to be parked half a dozen times. The first, in the Royal Decree of Urgent Measures of Economic Reactivation. According to patch, in the Royal decree law of distance work. Third patch, a week later, in the Royal Decree of Social Measures to Defend Employment. Fourth patch, in a resolution of the 19th of December General State Intervention. Fifth patch, four days later it's changed again in a royal decree of urgent measures. Sixth patch, in a royal decree for the reduction of the gender gap. And with all this, after 30 extensions, the law is still being negotiated now that it will definitely approve the minimum vital income. Mrs Rodil, how are we going to undertake with a minimum of rigour a reform of self-regulation without having defined exactly what state legislation will be regulating the minimum vital income? See, having seen the impossibility of implementing plan A, which was the reform of the Act of Inclusion, we moved on to plan B. Galicia and many other communities, we asked the Central Government to enable a mechanism to compensate for the abuses between the two administrations. And in this way we would be able to comply with the law and at the same time not to disturb citizens who have no blame for anything -- and I share it with you -- the folloon where the central government put us. The answer that came to us from Madrid, once again, you know what it is: no. So we moved on to plan C. We kept the risk every month and the people who needed it while the minimum vital income was being processed and the central government still didn't solve it. When, seven or eight months later, people charged -- that you didn't say that -- all the delays in the minimum vital income, we enabled a way to regularize your situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know very well that all the people who are in this case have two and a half years to fix these abusers. And he also knows that all families who find themselves in a situation of special vulnerability and who have less charge if they can forgive them up to 3,400 euros of that abuse. Mrs. Rodil, I think we know very well that neither of these families is guilty of improvisation nor of the central government's closure, and that's why the Galician Union may totally or partially forgive the debt of all those people who find themselves in that unfortunate situation, those of course, who have children in charge and many things to pay. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u106	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u107	Thank you, President. He told me about Nietzsche and about repeating himself, and I'm so sorry that he gave it to him... because I don't know, that it bothers him to have to come here and repeat himself to the infinite, to have to come here twice to talk about the same matter. The first is that we are not taking initiatives here to make you feel comfortable, and that is why there are 42 Members and Members who are great. And not so bad, hey! [[Applause]] We didn't see that. Here we repeat debates... nobody bothers to repeat a debate about AP-9, right? about the transfer, about who pays the fees, if they go up, if they go down. I don't know why I bring the problems of thousands of people in this country, of a lot of people in this country who are in a very delicate situation in economic terms and who are now claimed 3,000, 4,000 and 5,000 euros, because they allegedly paid irregularly two economic benefits, like we have to do a full monograph! You know what bothers me? [[Applause]] I'm telling you, too, eh! What bothers me is to bring here or have to come here and talk, I don't know, seven, eight, fifteen times, that there's a woman who has a child in charge, who pays 350 euros of rent, who pays little more than 300 euros for a Risk and who is now asked for 3,229.80 euros. Or that there's a marriage of returned migrants in this country... I say not to lose focus and perspective on what we're talking about. A marriage of emigrants, returned, over 60 years old, who earn less than a non-contributory pension, 550 euros a month, who live in a rented housing for which they pay 290 euros and must return them to you -- because they're claiming them, and they don't go into any of the patches that you planned to get -- 5,341,80 euros. It's very heavy, eh! People who have no income more than an economic benefit, for those who have nothing, and who are remaining in debt to the administration. And that's a big problem that goes far beyond you have an estate or not -- that you don't have it -- whether you have savings or not -- that they don't have it because if they don't charge the risk -- but you stay because you owe it to an administration and you try to get your daughter to go to college for the next course. Because they're going to tell you no, because you owe the public administration. I mean, it's a very fat, very fat problem, that's going to drag people, families, homes that have a very delicate economic situation, that they are in a very big precarious situation, that in many cases they will also have very difficult in the economic and social context where we are today, immersed in a crisis that is still about to see the consequences and the actual magnitude and depth of those consequences, that they're going to have a situation like this. And that they have absolutely no blame or responsibility for any of that generated situation. So, what do we ask of him? You were talking about Plan A, Plan B, Plan C. I'm going to put another one on the table: Plan D, which is just like what Canarias did. And I insist very much on this, and not because I have a fanaticism for Canary Islands, but because it proves that it has already been done before, that is to say, that there is not going to be done anything that nobody has done, but that it has already been done, because the autonomous administration, that is, the board of Galicia, the money that they have perceived well, properly and properly, these people until they are approved and if they are paid retroactively, suddenly that right, because all of this is that they have a right is not that no one is giving anything, it is that they have a right. What did Canarias do? That money already has those people, which is where it had to be. Most of them are paying for the bill of light, the bill of rent, the bill of gas, the material and the food in order to maintain your home and your life, to be able to eat three times a day, which is a fundamental right. That money, the administration doesn't need it at all. I say it with absolute frankness. I mean, we're charging a debt to people who don't have any kind of responsibility and that administration can perfectly -- understand what I'm saying -- regardless of him, that's what Canarias did. That's why, as you have no responsibility and that undue or irregular charge, that incompatibility, it's not the responsibility of the person who is beneficiary, the administration can approve on a Governing Council that will not be claimed those amounts owed to it. They can do it, because others have done it, and then, immediately and in parallel, go to a reform of the Social Inclusion Act, so that this situation, first, cannot happen again. [[Applause]] In fact, we have to guarantee this compatibility of the two benefits with an objective, which is neither that these people end up earning more than a minimum interprofessional wage, but that they have guaranteed basic minimum incomes to maintain your life with dignity, which is what they assume, and to which anyone is entitled for simply being a human being, eh! Let's never lose sight of that. And I want to give it to you -- because we're going to bring a motion that comes from this interpellation -- also that idea, where we have to walk in the reform of the Act of Inclusion and the decree that develops Galicia's Social Inclusion Report. We believe, in addition to this forgiveness, that these supposed undue charges, we believe that we must go to a reform of the Act of inclusion that will, firstly, allow us to extend the range of beneficiaries. Today we're at 25, the minimum living income made it at 23, and we believe from the BNG that at least the two benefits will have to be equal. That guarantees and therefore counts, with a minimum income that allows you to count incomes that enable you to live with dignity, and that strengthen or complement you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u109	... and with this ending -- two issues that are essential to us, and which are thighs in the minimum vital income and which can serve as a complement to Risk. One is housing, the housing supplement to guarantee the right to a decent housing for everyone in our country. And the second, the social and labour integration process to guarantee the right to work, which, ultimately -- and we always say it -- is to which we have the right to all people, a right to work and to receive a decent wage for our work. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, as you well know, from the beginning Galicia asked the Central Government to transfer the minimum vital income under the same conditions that granted this transfer to Navarre or Basque Country. And we did it first alone and then -- thank you, Mrs. Rodil -- with your parliamentary support, which I really appreciate, and I appreciate that it made me special illusion. But once again from Madrid, they told us not, and explained how I warned the central government that this situation was going to happen here in Galicia just as it is being given in other autonomous communities. We gave him the warning and told him not, and he explained to him as well as to Galicia, and in all other autonomous communities, we're setting up a mechanism between administrations to compensate for the abuse. We transferred this possibility to the Central Government and we were told no. I insist on what I've already said, in addition, on the first intervention. I'd really prefer that Galicia never had to see such a situation. And above all, because we are not the only ones, we are not the only community that we have to face this situation, but because there are Spaniards from all sides that are going through it. I suppose, too, Mrs. Rodil, that when you, a week ago, met Gabriel Rufián, if I don't remember correctly, I would take this opportunity to ask him what's going on in Catalonia. Well, in Catalonia, a similar situation is going on, and the Catalan Government has also decided to forgive -- a situation similar to ours -- part of the delay or amount. In that same case, we are the Greeks, but there are also the Catalans, the Asturians, the Cantabrians or the premieres, among others. Mrs. Rodil, and you come here -- it's already been the last question and now in this interpellation -- give it and come, come and give it to Canarias. Canary Islands is an autonomous community that has a figure, which is the decree law, of which Galicia does not have. So we cannot use the same figure as the Canary Islands, because in Galicia there is no such figure. There were autonomous governments that extinguished their autonomous income, their minimum income, or that forced their perceivers to pass necessarily to the minimum vital income, but here in Galicia we did not, because here it was kept at all times at Risk. Everyone continued to attend and receive the allowance at all times. A benefit which, in addition, has been operating in Galicia for 30 years, and 30 years has proved to be a useful benefit. And I honestly think we did the right thing. And when we see ourselves in a situation as complex as this one, in an area -- in which I insist -- as delicate as social inclusion is, because of all the causes of this self-government, there are two ways of proceeding: the shape of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is to bring to plenary twice in less than a month this sad situation -- gives me the feeling that to extract political revenue -- or the plan of a government that I consider to be responsible, which is to give ease to all these families and to all these people. Facilities of up to 30 months so that these affected people -- I insist, by improvisation, again, of the Central Government -- can regulate their situation, a situation of which -- I insist -- they are not guilty, and so they can open up the possibility that 80% of those affected can totally or partially condone these abuses. This is the situation or the short-term solution. The long-term solution, as you know, is to reform, as you said, the Galician Social Inclusion Act, and that we will begin to process in the next quarter. I hope that by then you have a final state legislation to regulate the minimum vital income. At this moment too, Mrs Rodil, when we amend this Act of Social Inclusion, I hope to count once again on your support, or with the support of the Galego Nationalist Block, which appears to be that Nationalist Block that supported us when we claim and demand the autonomous management of the minimum vital income, and does not appear at that time the Galician Nationalist Block which rejected, by pure partisanism, the Law of Demographic impulse, which was the first at national level. Mrs. Rodil, much of the evasiveness of this vital minimum income is due to political calculations, to those of a central government who wanted to approve this vital minimum income before the elections of the Greeks and the Basques, and so it happened: very late, many people who did not perceive it, and who had to be, once again, there giving all these people and all these families who were in a situation of need, and who kept this autonomous income so they could go on. Finally, I trust you to learn from the Government's mistakes that you support in Madrid, and that when we talk here in Galicia about social inclusion and families that are going through it, they get that sense of country out of their drawer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u112	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Marina Ortega Otero's appeal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia on the policy of the Social Policy Council on resources for the dependence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u113	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u114	Thank you, President. Before I started I wanted to show, at the request of the daughters of Isaura, a drawing that made a child, in particular this one, by companion Isaura, and that says the following: "Isaura, I am Andrés da Silva, I am studying at the CEP Menela, of the Menela Foundation of Vigo, and I felt sorry because I had just been told that you lost your life. I remember coming to my college with the mayor of Vigo, and I thank him for everything he has done for us, people with autism and other disabilities. I am sure that although his legacy has gone to heaven, he will continue to live among us." [[Mr Ortega shows a sheet.]] [[Applause]] Before we begin with the subject in question, I must say that, by inaccuracy, in the previous debate, before the previous interpellation, Mrs Novoa, of the People's Party, it is serious that she misses the truth in this House, and in something that can be ascertained when the Socialist Group did not vote against lowering the VAT of electricity, but the People's Party itself. [[Applause]] Let's tell the truth. Getting into the matter, the year 2006 was not an ordinary year, as it was this year when the Socialist Government gave birth to the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Persons in Dependency, or, as we know most people, the law of dependency. The law of dependence meant taking people with dependence out of darkness, and many with disabilities. Dependency law meant a solution for those parents or mothers with dependent children, such as, for example, cerebral palsy and neurodegenerative diseases, etc., etc. Minors and older people who depend on their parents and mothers to perform the basic activities of daily life, such as eating, grooming, getting up, etc. The law of dependency meant visibility of these people, most women, who have dedicated and dedicated their lives to caring for others, many of them devoted to caring for dependent relatives: mothers, parents, grandparents, children, children, etc. The law of dependency meant guaranteeing economic remuneration for these people who gave up their working life by providing the care that dependent people in their homes so much need. It meant recognizing the right to an economic reward, and to special contributions as caregivers, and this is where the People's Party cut off most. The law of dependency has put so much emphasis on people's visibility with a dependency or disease. The law of dependency broke, broke, that taboo that throughout history made people who had a son or daughter with a disability or dependence kept themselves in the shadow, hidden, out of the margins of rights and social life. The law of dependency required a revolution in the rights of a society at the height of the twenty-first century, such as other socialist laws that revolutionized freedom and rights, such as, for example, the first law against macho violence, the law of equal marriage, the law of equality and the right to abortion, or the equalization of parental and maternity rights, the law of euthanasia, or the law of protection of children against violence, for example. Rights that went forward despite the vote against the People's Party in many of the laws, which they themselves, indeed, used. But to talk about dependency, you have to tell the truth of its history: the first threat to the law of dependency is made through Rajoy in 2009, in public statements that assured him that "dependence in you is viable." Years later, the Government of the People's Party would fulfil its threat, slaughtering the law that took people out of the shadow, depending on their families, by the royal decree of 2012, cutting where it hurts most, breaking the commitment of dependency financing with autonomous communities, which now the Government of the People's Party complains so much, when you were the architects. And do you know that the People's Party has offered itself in exchange for cutting this state contribution to the autonomous communities? For in return it was offered to cut the payments and eliminate the contribution of mothers, parents, children and children who cared for their families to lower the budget burden of the autonomous communities. Who's lost in this negotiation? As always, dependent people and their families, gentlemen. The PP literally told mothers and parents to take care of their dependent children, or children who cared for their parents, who, if they wanted to continue, would pay for it from their pocket. And in addition, they fulminously cut not only the pay they received for caring for their families but access to this library by high news to the dependency system, in which most of them were automatically transformed into a SAF. This is the past, ladies and gentlemen, and the present is a Government of Spain which the first thing he did was work to resume the contributions of these caregivers and not leave them out of the system without rights, as did the People's Party for seven years of Government of Spain. [[Applause]] The twenty-first dictation of the Observatory of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services affirms, as regards the dependent state contribution, the following -- and I quote textual -- : "The amounts of the General Government of the State were reduced in 2012..." -- in July 2012, more specifically -- "...by the Royal Decree of 2012, and remained frozen until the end of the 2017." I repeat, "they decreased in July 2012 and remained frozen until the end of the year 2017." I repeat this because I know this is of interest to the Counsellor, because since Pedro Sánchez's rule always repeats it, and so I ask him: Who governed Spain between 2012 and 2017? [[Applause]] The Observatory itself recognizes that the Government of Spain's shock plan -- the current shock plan -- reverses the dependency cuts; in particular, it does, even so, predicts that with these resources that the Government of Pedro Sánchez increases it can be able to eliminate the waiting list in 11 autonomous communities, and reduce it considerably in the rest. So it's logical -- it's an obligation, by the way -- that the German Government announces a plan to meet the targets that are being set and also to give out the funds that have been reached by the state, among them, the specific one to target the dependency of the shock plan to the dependence of the Government of Spain. What would not be logical is that these funds do not account for an increase in staff to speed up waiting lists, and we'd like to know whether the staff of the dependency teams will significantly increase, Madam Counsellor; but, look!, the number of technicians, not equipment, let's not cheat. There are worrying data for Galicia regarding dependent people and their families, and this is an issue that interests the whole of citizenship, the whole of citizenship, and for two reasons: first, empathy; and, second, because we can all become dependent or have a dependent relative throughout our lives, only time determines who will touch them. A few days ago, the Government of Greece announced a crash plan in Galicia to improve the dependency data, and it is striking -- as it said -- that in this plan there is no specific staff increase specified for the dependency rating teams; and technicians that solve the PIA, the individual care program; or the PAR, the resource allocation program in the files. Because it's key, that's key, as much as we transfer technicians from the territorial departments, the comarcas still have only two hands to do the work with the same number of files to solve, and more so when the files themselves to solve, the people themselves of those files to solve, the dependents themselves have already turned to the territorial teams themselves to be valued in presence, except in cases where they could not attend their high degree of dependence. And the technicians of the unit rating teams went to evaluate the same to their homes. This continues to happen, it doesn't change, so this novelty is fallacious, it doesn't solve the problem itself if it doesn't increase the number of staff, in particular, significantly. The situation of social services in Galicia is complex, Counsellor. It's the German president who has to turn on the empathy bulb to connect the most vulnerable people to their rights. But first we have to contextualize the social landscape in Galicia, the fruit of over a decade of the People's Party's German Government, and the fact is that it is worrying, very worrying, the situation of social services in Galicia, of which you are the most competent, Madam Counsellor. Social services came weak to this crisis in order to cope with this pandemic. Specifically, as you know, Galicia is located in position number 13 in the ranking they made of all Spain, of all the autonomous communities of Spain. Galicia is one of the last in social services by the following: Staffing of professionals in their basic social services structures: Galicia, 1 professional per 2,458; State average?, 1 professional per 1,875. In dependent care coverage?: Galicia, 8% of the potentially dependent population, on the state average?, or 9.7%. In the minimum incomes of insertion?: Galicia, 6.9 % of the population below the poverty line benefits from its income, 1 point less than on the state average, which is 7.9. In addition, the amount of the benefit is lower than the State average. In residential public funding squares for older people?: Another, in Galicia, 1.2 squares per 100 seniors, on the state average?, 2.7. In the coverage of the home help service?: In Galicia, 3.3 per 100 seniors, and on the state average, 4.9. In teleassistion, is service so important for older people who live alone?: In Galicia, 2.3 over the total number of people aged 65, on the state average, 10.2%. It's important to note that we're talking about Galicia, which is one of the oldest autonomous communities in all of Spain. In the residential squares for people with disabilities and in the daily and occupational squares?: Does the same happen, first, Galicia, 1.2 squares per 100 people, on the state average?, 1.6. In newspapers and occupations? 1.6 in Galicia, and 2.7 on the state average. In shelters for women and their children victims of macho violence?: 6.3 squares per 100 women with order of protection; on the state average, 9.5. In addition, the governance of the People's Party in Galicia places our autonomous community as one of the less self-sustaining communities that it invests per person potentially dependent on all over Spain. In particular, EUR 829 per year per dependent person in Galicia, and on the state average, EUR 1,158 per year. Secondly, the cumulative impact on state public expenditure, measures to cut the royal decree of Rajoy, of the People's Party, had a cut -- attention --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u116	...of 6,322 million euros, nothing more and nothing less, a stab at the law of dependency. The number of people who would benefit from the total dependent population is also one of the lowest in all autonomous communities in Spain. And it's interesting, in addition, that Galicia is the last community in all of Spain in number of requests per dependency. Why do the Greeks and the Greeks give up on seeking help for the dependency, Counselor? We don't understand. We'll have to analyze this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u118	From the Socialist Party -- one minute, Mr. President --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u119	Time's up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u120	...we consider it essential to bet on the increase in staff of the assessment teams. Because, moreover, given that the funds that arrived in Galicia were many: 735 million of the fund covered, 235 million for self-government and businesses, 17 million of extraordinary aid, plus 45 of dependence, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u121	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u122	If you want to bet on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u123	He's got another shift later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u124	...rights of these people, it's time. Counselor, now or never.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u125	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members. Mrs. Ortega. Psychologist Abraham Maslow went through history through his famous pyramid that generated the needs of the human being. Once the most basic needs were met, as you can understand, there are new demands that we must come true. In all Western countries, the state of well-being has developed in a similar way, by layers. Once you have reached universal health and education, the pyramid is rising to offer all these new people services to a society, besides, increasingly demanding. One of the samples of the development level that has reached our people is the expansion of the attention system to older people, so that it can be accessible and of the first level. We've lived more years than ever before and for the first time in history, we have at our disposal professional services to live them better and better. The great progress that Galicia has recorded over the past 12 years can be measured by the intensity of the deployment of aid and dependent attention services. Since 2009 Galicia has increased by 4 the number of dependents attended, from 15,000 to 63,000. And the law of dependency in 2006 was passed thanks to a broad consensus between your party, Mrs Ortega, and my party. It's something we can feel very proud of. I'm glad, in addition, that you today have an interest in talking about the history of Spain, talking about the Central Government, something that always asks me not to do. But it's very important to sometimes put into context what is the situation of dependency law and also dependence in general throughout Spain. The law of dependency was a correct one, I have to admit it and I must recognize it, not like your neighbour of the Carballino, Pachi Vázquez, who would remember me when he said in a forum that "you might have gone with us." Well, no, in Galicia we're working tirelessly to continue giving them more and more benefits and more services to older people. [[Applause]] But what has happened to the law of dependency since 2006? The Central Government, in 2006, after drafting this law, forgot that, in order to transfer all these benefits and all these services to citizens, funds were needed. And they were consolidated year after year of imbalances, and 15 years later these imbalances translate into really embarrassing figures. Out of the 400 million euros that support the dependency care system in Galicia, our elders, people with disabilities, 300 million euros come from the autonomous archives, and less than 100 million euros come from the central government. In that spirit of dependency law -- and I've already told you here on a number of occasions -- there was clearly a balance in contributions: 50 % the state, 50 % the autonomous community. But do you know how much the central government has left us for all these years? Do you know how long the Central Government would have to come to us and not put it in the pockets of dependent people? EUR 1.9 billion. An amount more than enough to meet five times all the dependent people in our community. But yet, and thanks to this bitter commitment from the German Government, today we have more people being cared for through the law of dependency. We are one of the communities with a better ratio of attention to dependent people at the national level. That is, 94% of dependent people are already receiving some benefit or service here in Galicia, 11 points above the national average. But anyway, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the system is not perfect, because the time to see a recognized benefit is one of the most important features of dependency services, here in Galicia and the rest of Spain. We also know that these delays have their origin in the bureaucracy and in the paperwork around them, and we also know that many situations require rapid action from different administrations. That's exactly the objective of the new, dependent shock plan, so you're making your inquiry to me today. A shock plan that will reduce the number of pages in the dependency form by half, reduce the waiting times by half, merge the grade and PIA requests, review the PIA concept, create new valuation centres, start new preferred pathways, simplify the justification of the various aids, and of course also carry out a teaching campaign on the particulars of the dependency. I could be talking to you for hours about the dependency system, which, in addition, is something that loves me and what I've been working on for many years. And it also has a direct impact on the quality of life of older people in Galicia. But for the sake of eternity, I'm going to answer the four questions that you move me to. First question: Will staff be strengthened on dependency rating teams? Yes, doing this reinforcement is within the dependency crash plan that we just approved. Second question: What results were obtained in the pilot study of Ourense province? Value yourself: between January and May this year we increased the valuations by 70% over the same period of previous years. So today, I would like to thank the entire staff of the Social Policy Council in Ourense province for their work, their efforts and the success of this program. [[Applause]] Third question: Where have the additional resources of the Government of Spain been invested? We've been waiting for 20 million euros since January to send us to the agreed level. Almost half a year later Galicia did not receive the first euro, with which you won't ask me where I invested them because nothing, absolutely nothing, of the agreed level that corresponds to Galicia. Fourth question: What resources will be invested to improve the quality of dependency law services? Mrs. Ortega, I believe I have already responded to this with all the data I gave you at the beginning of this intervention. The financial commitment of the Galician Union to older people and persons with disabilities is beyond doubt. Of the EUR 400 million that costs the dependency bill every year, EUR 300 million is funded by the Greek Government and less than EUR 100 million is funded by the Central Government. You should also take advantage of the occasion and ask your fellow central government parties if they'll be up to it as well. The German Government has always been, is and will be, I hope they too. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u127	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u128	Thank you, President. Counselor, you're going to get rid of the People's Party. Because there is little criticism, Rajoy's sermon has often just given him the lack of funding thanks to the Royal Decree 2012, which has signed the People's Party at the state level! Get ready! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, Counselor, you can fool anyone here who's not familiar with this area, it's logical, or even the citizenry who listens to it, but the one who can never cheat is dependent people. Analyze the people's Valator's report and observe complaints not only for waiting times, but also for disagreement on the degree or percentage of disability and dependence that is granted to them and, by the way, many of them for phone ratings, Counsellor. Because here I'm assuming that the ratings were agitated, wouldn't it be because they were on the phone, Counselor? How can you rate a person who has a sweatshop by phone? Do you think you can rate a person who's deafening correctly and strictly on the phone? You think that's possible? [[Applause]] "Cover mortality relieves the dependency waiting list in Galicia." 462 people waiting for their allowance failed between March and December. It's 1 out of every 5 out of 2,087 casualties in the register. Here we must also count people who went off because they didn't want access to the residences or even the home help service when the coward was fired out of fear. The State Dependency Observatory also states: "This has greatly contributed to the reduction of the waiting list. Thus, of the 2,087 people who have left the benefit settlement waiting list, 21,85 per cent have done so as a result of the death of the person and not by the management of the community." Counsellor, let's hope that this plan is really going to coincide with a significant increase in the staff of the dependency assessment teams, I want to believe it, what happens is that the other day in the commission the CEO didn't say so and that's why we doubt, I hope it's not to be attributed by an empty plan of content these sad results, because of a pandemic. I hope that's not the case. The People's Party in Galicia is characterized by showing one kind face to the media and another when they don't record, when they don't run, when they don't do their homework. And unfortunately, we thought that, as Rajoy said, dependence was not viable, you think the same thing. And the reality is that they don't bet on rights, they didn't bet on the rights of dependent people and their families. Rectify as soon as possible, Counselor, because it is vital today more than ever. And of what I was commenting on about funding, actually, I asked Rajoy, because that's what he signed this Royal Decree of 2012. Look, Counsellor, 2006: PSOE creates the law of dependency and PP reaches government and masquerades cutting through Rajoy. That's what you criticize, well criticized. The real face of the People's Party is that, which cut off the pensions and pensions of mothers who took care of their children and daughters and who also cared for their parents. The real face of the People's Party is that which told those non-professional caregivers, most women, by the way, that they wanted to continue to pay for it from their pocket, and had to reach the Government of Pedro Sánchez to resume that right to contribute so fair to these people. The true face of the People's Party is the total disunity between counsellors, who prevents progress in the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, such as boys and girls with disabilities who stop school at the age of 21 and the German Government gives them no more options. You meet, Counsellor, immediately with the Education Adviser, and coordinate solutions for these 70 families. The real face of the People's Party is the one that drives waiting lists through phone reviews and reviews, even the cost of reducing its quality. How can you value it, Counselor, a person like, for example, a deafening woman as I said before? This happened and is happening in Galicia. The real face of the People's Party is the one that announces headlines saying they'll make a plan to improve the data, but they don't specify exactly if they're going to significantly increase the number of workers. The true face of the People's Party is that which did not sign the Covenant for Dependency in 2016, Counselor, when she ruled in the State. But then, when they stopped ruling, they asked to join the pact. It's the face of cynicism in politics, Counselor. These actions, along with corruption, have contributed year after year to a disaffectation of people on the street with politicians, for lack of trust, that we all pay for it. Social policies talk about people, it's an area for which sensitivity and knowledge are needed. It's not fair to play with empty headlines because it means to play with people's lives. And, therefore, they rectify in the Government to stop suspending on the coverage of dependent care, on minimum incomes of insertion, also suspended in the residential public funding squares, on the coverage of the home support service, teleassisted, residential places for persons with disabilities, on the investment per resident potentially dependent, on the number of persons benefiting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u130	...by dependency, etc. The worst community compared to the number of requests per dependency. Counsellor, social services are not good, their competence, which you are responsible for in social policy. They say number 13 is bad luck, I don't believe it, but in this context it's not bad luck, but for mismanagement, Counselor. Our autonomous community occupies number 13 in the ranking as the worst autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u131	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u132	...of the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u134	Nor by increasing investment in social services do we go out well in this ranking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u135	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u136	We've greatly increased the number...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u137	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, look at the clock, please. Look at the clock, it's over. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Ortega, I am surprised to know that the measures I presented to you today in my first intervention seemed to be scarce, because the really scarce are the approaches that your government, the Government of the Socialist Party, to dependent people in Galicia. I remind you again, as I always do, because I see it's something you usually forget: 24% of central government's contribution to 76% of Galicia's contribution to provide more and more services to our dependents. If you say that you look so much through Galicia, through our land, it would be good that from time to time you talked to your colleagues in the Socialist Central Government Party who also look through Galicia, who also look at older people depending on our community. With all these measures that I have just exposed you and that you collect the Dependency Plan, we're going to cut half the waiting times. Imagine we'd make all the funds the Central Government owes us! A shock plan that has been worked out, which has been greatly meditated on and which responds to many of the problems that are currently in place when requesting dependence in Galicia. By your words, I don't know if you're upset by the dependency shock plan or what's going on? What matters to us is to continue to improve the benefits, services and speed up the procedures for all dependents and their families. And so we've been working for many months, for many years, for 12 years, where we've increased the number of dependents attended to quadrupling their numbers. I remind you again that in 2009 there were 15,000 dependents attended, and that we are in June 2021, with 63,000 dependents attended. We are one of the communities with a better ratio of care to older people with dependence. And these advances, which we've been working on all these years, are going towards everything we want to achieve. Because this shock plan in Galicia represents a very ambitious and very serious bet on reforming the system of dependency attention since its creation. And with this plan, we will be able to simplify the procedures, bring professional assistance and services to more and more older people with disabilities. And we'll also be able to reduce something that's very important, that's times, that you know I'm one of the measuring units that most determine our quality of life in our welfare system. Improving the attention to dependency is not one of the main objectives of the whole government but must always be a priority towards the future of Galicia. That's why we're going to keep raising funds, we're going to continue to boost the system, and we're going to continue to set new targets. Because all this and much more is what older people deserve, people with disabilities and all families of dependent people in Galicia. Look, Mrs. Ortega, be very quiet, I think the People's Party won't throw me away for defending the interests of the greatest people in Wales. But I was telling him at the beginning of my intervention that psychologist Abraham Maslow went through that pyramid. I really hope you don't go through history because you're the autonomous Member who hasn't defended the interests of Galicia and indeed those of President Sánchez. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u139	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m. [[The session is suspended at three and eight minutes and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] First Vice-President's appearance and chairlor Justice and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the situation of the tourism sector in Greece and the support of the Union in the biennium Xacobeo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u140	Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I compare my own request, as you know, to take account of the situation in the tourism sector in Galicia and, above all, of the support measures that have been in place since June for some time now, and those that remain here in the future, which I will also refer to, especially with regard to Xacobeo 2021-2022, in which we are fully immersed already. Ladies and gentlemen, in the six months we've been living the hardest part of the pandemic, of course, one of the toughest, but also the indications that we could already be abandoning this complicated situation. Therefore, the fight against the coronavirus, of course, continues, continues to be present in hospitals, in the contaminants that are still taking place daily, and in the struggle of all of them. Today there are 50 people who have entered, and since the beginning of the pandemic they have died in Galicia by the coward-19 a total of 2,434 people. So I think, as it is obliged to make in all appearances, the first one is a reminder to all their families, and to all the dead. [[Applause]] But we continue, gentlemen, as I said, moving forward in the days, and we began to see numbers that move us to hope. Today there are 1,518,167 people vaccinated with the first dose, and more than 1 million, 1,008,500 specifically, with the full regimen. So, I think, thanks to the efforts of all Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, and to the behavior of the pandemic, the figures, at least, were always better than in the middle of Spain. And so one of its most affected sectors, the tourism sector, had to adapt to a situation that, better than the average of Spain, was also very difficult. And, therefore, the obsession almost -- in the right sense -- that we have to be positioned as a secure destiny continues of course, now that at last things seem to start to improve. Ladies and gentlemen, the figure of travellers staying in Spain this first quarter of the year dropped by 56.5% compared to the previous year, this in Spain. In Galicia, the fall was lower than 3%, and therefore is 23.5%, almost a quarter less than in the state average. It's data, of course, very bad, data that has to be framed in a pandemic context that attacked the tourist sector in an absolutely brutal way, but that moves us in a certain hope, especially if we go to numbers and start segmenting specific tourist figures. If we go to the extra-hotel segment, it can even overcome the demand levels of the same period 2020: 4% more rural tourism establishments, 22% more in tourist apartments and more than ten times the state level if we talk about camping. Therefore, with this increase of 22% per year, Galicia is the best-behaving destination, for example, in the area of tourist apartments, and generally better behaviour in all tourist sectors if we talk about accommodation. In this first quarter, as expected, 90% of regulated tourism demand corresponds to national tourism. And without a doubt, during these months that we will have from now on this must be our main goal, thinking that in 2022, when it recovers and when mobility is normal at the international level, that will be our second objective. We must therefore address the tourist promotion to people who come from the other autonomous communities, as well as to foreign tourism of closer proximity. I'm talking about southern France or, at least, about half of what is most in contact with Spain, and of course also about Portugal as a whole, and especially, for many reasons, of northern Portugal. By giving them more figures, if we talk about overnights, behavior becomes more positive again in Galicia, because there is obviously a 33% decrease, but it's that the average state drop in overnights is 64.5%. The average stay, of course, is very improved and compared to a normal context, is in 2.2 nights, the figure that exceeds by more than 10 %, 12.3%, the data of the same period last year, and in fact is the best figure in five years. And, of course, the numbers of the Santiago Way. He observed himself after many very complicated months, months where there were practically no pilgrims, because there was no mobility, because we remember that he couldn't, for a long time, even cross the municipality. We see that the situation is beginning to improve very quickly, in addition to improving mobility and also advancing vaccination. They arrived at Compostela 14,593 pilgrims from the beginning of the year, of which 9,000 arrived this June, therefore a very important part; and what remains from now summer, these two months that come forward, are concentrating in these last days. And for example, I'm going to give you another number: more than 2,000 this last weekend, only this last weekend; 2,000 of the nearly 15,000 that came all year round. So these are numbers that we're looking at going up, and they're going to increase, or that's what we all expect, exponentially, and I think they're good news. And that's why we must insist very much that Galicia is ready, that Galicia is a secure destination, and in this new space that opens up, in these new security that will search for many travelers, it is very important to position itself in this sense. Therefore, ladies, data improves. But these do not cease to be -- and that we all know -- well below a normal year, and of course, if we compare them to the last year, to the prepandemia of the last full year, where there were not all the restrictions that came after for the reason of the coward-19. The tourism sector has been very affected, and it is still one of the most affected sectors today. It's a key sector for Galicia, because we don't have to remember here -- we've talked about it many times -- which represents 11% of our GDP, more than 10% of the total employability rate, and therefore it's a sector in which we all play very much. So all administrations have an obligation to work on this recovery, to give a powerful answer, a supportive response. Of course, the Galician Union has seen it clear from the very first moment, and I think we've been working that way, also from the very first moment. We were the first autonomous community to provide a rescue plan for the cultural sector and the tourism sector, to enable pioneering measures -- tourism bonus, coronavirus insurance -- --, we were the first administration in Galicia to enable direct aid for self-employed people and pemens in the tourism sector. Already there were local administrations, some deputies and some council -- fortunately, this was corrected and many people realized that this was a task of all administrations -- some administration that goes on to say that this is not the competence of certain administrations, and so it will have to be the Board -- or who it is, of course not them -- who is in charge of helping a sector in whose recovery I think we are all absolutely involved, all the administrations. Therefore, on the part of the Galician Union we strongly insist that support, in order to be truly effective, must come from all administrations, because we all have competences when we are betting on the recovery of such a badly damaged and so fundamental sector for Galicia. I think that there were things going on, I insist that administrations that were initially profiled now are actually getting involved together with the Council of Galicia. But we believe there are demands that remain fundamental and that are not met. And I put a very important one: the downsizing of tourist VE, even if it's, at least, transiently. A matter which is absent, for example, in the proposals of the opposition groups in the Ditam of the reactive commission, and this is something which unanimously calls for the sector, and which, of course, the Galician Union and the People's Parliamentary Group are willing to support without any doubt, because it is necessary, because it is requested by the sector, and because it would have a direct effect. I also have to say that, in the six months that we've been in 2021, since the Galician Union, we have continued to make a very important effort, with concrete measures, the fruit of dialogue, and so on. We talked many times, and we haven't been in many cases easy meetings, or nice meetings, in the sense that each one would put his positions and arguments on the table, but we talked to the sector continuously, and I think this is always positive and it has been demonstrated now when things begin to improve, that this constant dialogue, hard and mature, is always beneficial, and you never have to give up on it. Of course, the Galician Union didn't. Also, speaking of the current situation, right now, of the aid, which has been opened for more than a week for the request in the third rescue plan of the Galician Union already, for self-employed people, professionals and companies particularly affected by the crisis of coward-19, which is called and so published this third rescue plan. I mean, it's the third plan, with it we've already been, in six months, three rescue plans published, and for the sectors most affected by the pandemic, and total amounting to 416 million euros. Taking a small balance of the first two rescue plans, 176.7 million euros are already paid between the first and the second rescue, and almost 90 -- 89.4 -- were companies directly linked to the tourism sector. It's as much as saying 50% of these funds. Most of the budget was concentrated on restaurants, bars, food and drink establishments... logically the most affected, since they were closed for a long time, they could not work, but they also reached 8.2 million euros to accommodation establishments, 2.4 million to travel agencies and tourist operators, and more than 500,000 euros to other tourist services, for example, professional tour guides. It's very important too, and we repeat it many times, and I think we prove it by the facts, and there are the recipients for the same. What was meant by these aids -- they were direct aids for people who weren't having any other income -- is that they had to arrive as soon as possible, and I think we've demonstrated unprecedented agility. So we also want to do this with the design of the third plan, we want to maintain this same scheme. It is true that there are difficulties, and surely this will be discussed in the replicas. It's money that transfers the state to us, and now we'll talk about how much we believe Galicia should receive and not receive. But, as money is transferred from a state fund, it is added to a series of conditions that, ladies and gentlemen, we honestly do not understand too much of any of the obstacles, some of the requirements that are put in place, and that we sincerely believe that they could be obvious, especially considering that we have already carried two previous rescue plans and those requirements and those bureaucratic obstacles that are going to have this third plan -- and that we try to minimize them -- did not exist in the first two. The difference was that in the first two rules they were marked by the Council of Galicia, and in this third, they will be marked by the State, which transfers the money. So these are obligations that we have to assume but that we try to minimize as much as possible, and that final recipients, who continue to need that as soon as these direct aids arrive, they also transfer us that these obstacles should not exist, just as they did not exist in the first two plans. And the first thing to tell you is that this was not in line with the autonomous communities. We were first told how much we didn't agree with, and then the mechanisms for transferring this money to the final recipients, to which, as I say, in many cases, we didn't agree either. Just as we don't agree with the final percentage of Galicia, 3.3 percent, when, if this had been done according to the criteria of self-financing, it would have to reach exactly double, about 6 percent, which in the end is not for the Galician Union, is to transfer directly to those who need it. So we're going to share this third rescue plan -- it's already published --, always making the interpretation more favourable to the beneficiaries, sometimes not contradicting, because that can't be done, but trying to nuance and soften, and making things easier for the recipients, and thus adapting a very rigid state regulation, which you didn't want to change. And he didn't want to change, among other things, because there was no prior negotiation between the autonomous communities responsible for distributing the funds and the state administration itself. And it would not be because we had not claimed it from the autonomous administrations, not only the Galician Union, but many other autonomous communities, of course, the other political colors. Another key aspect in the distribution of aid is what it has to do with the involvement, as it said before, of other administrations, which have gone from putting themselves, some of them directly -- it must be said, to understand us -- of profile, saying that it was not their competence, at a different stage in which many municipalities, above all, understood that they had to be directly involved in helping the tourist sector of their own municipalities. They know that the Galician Union offered the deputies and the municipalities an agreement to centralize, once accredited, and said the recipients themselves, which was the best system, the fastest -- they're already charged 100 of the first two rescue plans -- because they offered the Board's system to distribute the arrivals that decided the local administrations. Well, it's true that there are local administrations, especially municipalities, who decided to make a direct distribution. This isn't even more critical, what we're asking is that they arrive as soon as possible to the recipients. There are other Members and Councils who have decided not to make any distribution of aid, thinking that it will not go with them, and there are others -- of all political colors, it must be said -- that they have decided to use the distribution system of the Galician Union, 63 municipalities, specifically -- and I insist, of all political colors -- that they will distribute, and they will immediately begin that distribution, between the second and third rescue plan of 2.5 million euros, money from the municipalities that will be distributed through the quick and agile distribution channel of the Galician Union. In addition to other aids -- I don't want to stop at them much more -- we could quote the 11 million euros distributed from the Igape for the conditioning of terraces, home service and, ultimately, the adaptation of the sites to the new pandemic situation and especially the post-pandemic situation. I also mentioned the presentation of the budgets of the current exercise in which we are, 2021, of a specific shock plan for the tourism sector. I think this plan is being fulfilled, we're half a year and many of the measures are already in progress and some are completely executed. I'm talking about specific direct aids for different groups most affected in the tourism sector, consensual -- we have to say -- with the representation of the different subsectors in tourism in Galicia and which, in addition, are compatible with the direct aid of rescue plans, are the biggest of the money I've ever referred to. And by setting examples, travel agencies -- which are one of the most affected sectors and are directly aimed at promoting mobility, mobility has not been possible during these months -- are an important engine, and we have magnificent wholesale and retail travel agencies in Galicia, and they needed fundamental help especially at this point in which Xacobeo was presented as an opportunity and suddenly everything was stopped. So we have mobilised EUR 5.3 million for travel agencies in Galicia within this shock plan. A more recent example: subsidies for security insurance costs, aid for digitization, marketing of new products, 2.4 million, and to cover rents or mortgages of these establishments, 1.2 million euros. Another sector especially affected, and which is also the main façade that many people find when they arrive in Galicia, the professional tour guides, who in Galicia, apart from being very well organized in associations, have a very high professionalization. In particular, in the past month of February we established a partnership agreement, already disbursed, almost 200,000 euros, to create new tourist products that adapt to this new situation and think about Xacobeo. Improvements in tourist establishments to adapt them to this new situation of tourism resurgence: EUR 3.5 million, almost twice as much as in the previous year. A bet to renew, modernize the installations and adapt them -- as it said -- to new circumstances. Balneaires?, too; here we made a special effort. The spas depended to a large extent on the programs that were being promoted at the state level from the Imserso; Imserso suspended us last year, it may be more or less understandable, but today they don't know the spas -- I just held a meeting with the association that brings them all together -- the perspectives, the programs and, therefore, the hopes that they can have in revitalizing Imserso's programs this year 2021. The logic is that they already know it, they don't know anything; therefore, the Galician Union comes to its aid with an agreement already immediately to begin to promote again the stay at a spa of EUR 100,000. We also help operators and tourism operators MICE. Congress tourism is fundamental in Galicia, they needed to adapt and made during this year and a half of pandemic. And many virtual congresses that made it possible for us not to lose our pace and above all the prospect of holding many congresses as soon as possible in Galicia taking advantage of the year Xacobeo. And for digitization, here the new technologies have had a lot to do with, the Galician Union has contributed 770,000 euros and then another new one of 122,000 euros above all in investment in new technologies. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me stop at the night's breakout, closed from August 15, 2020, and they'll start to work -- if everything goes as planned up to now, and everything indicates it's going to be like this -- the next July 1st. And we've enabled a first line of rental aid at the end of last year, and we've finished -- it's already published in the Official Journal of Galicia -- to publish a new direct help at night's leisure, which is added in addition to all that could be accommodated in the two rescue plans already disbursed and what we've just published, but 4 million specifics for the sector that was probably more damaged, at least directly, since it takes a lot of time -- as I said before -- without being able to work, which is the sector that includes pubs, cafes, shows, party rooms and concert rooms. You know that we did a pilot test, the pilot test had very satisfactory results. The intention is -- we're evaluating it over these days -- to keep a meeting this same week, to close the final conditions, and that everyone at night at work, professionals know what it will land, what the conditions they will be able to function again and what they can do -- second is planned -- from July 1st. This is the forecast, everything indicates -- and let's hope so, there's no unexpected -- that they'll start working on that date, July 1st, and they'll also be able to accommodate -- apart from the aids they've already had -- those 4 million that go directly for them. And the shock plan collected other measures, initiatives to stimulate tourism consumption. The tourist bonus -- which I think was a collective success, we always say -- first, an initiative from the administrations, which they added to -- and I have to thank you -- both the House of Ourense and the Council of the Crown, who understood that by suming up efforts over political colors is how things must be done at this time and that they have allowed to mobilize a very important amount of money for the tourist sector at the time when it was most lacking. I think this is the first triumph of a tourist bonus that has had many more. The second, and probably the fundamental, is the attitude of the people we live in Galicia, which we understand, first, that we have many things to discover, the tourist bonus is to consume tourist products in Galicia; and, second, that it was a way of helping a sector so important, especially damaged, because I remember that it is a bond that asks for co-financing, and it has to be said that almost 90%, among the possibilities that there was, of the tourist bonus was for the part that demanded a greater contribution from the applicants. I believe that this attitude of trying, first, to make tourism in our own land, in our own autonomous community, and then to help such a disadvantaged sector, I think it speaks very well to the very clear of solidarity, of the desire we have, of course, to travel and to help our own tourist sector. And I think the success, apart from the figures that are already known -- I'm not going to stop on them -- from applicants, from people who have entered on a first shift, on a second, or from those who are still on standby list, to talk about the fact that there are nearly 1,000 tourist establishments in Galicia that adhered to the bond means that this was a very good initiative that I think comes at the right time to revitalize our tourism sector. To also speak, within the shock plan, of the program Elixe Galicia; by the way, chosen as the best internal tourism promotion programme at the recent Fitur fair. It's 10,000 tourist squares to distribute also through travel agencies, again it helps a particularly damaged sector; 3 million euros that will come very well in this idea of reactivation and revitalization. To speak also, within the shock plan, of the safe coronavirus. It is a pioneer measure which, by the way, is now being generalized; it was today in the newspapers that the Autonomous Community of Murcia joins with other autonomous communities that have already launched it, but it must be said that the first idea, the pioneer, emerged in the Autonomous Community of Galicia in an effort or in a collective approach not only to the Union -- that also --, but the tourism sector itself through the cluster that has arbitrated this measure and that it is being demonstrated that within that motto and that slogan -- that it has to be much more than a slogan, it has to be proved by facts -- of "Galice, sure destination" is a fundamental piece. It's already in force and it allows today, it didn't have to be activated, but we'd be perfectly prepared for anyone -- they or their companions -- who were infected because of the coronavirus, being not only pilgrims, but simply tourists in Galicia -- and there's a series of very simple requirements -- that they know they have that tranquility and that they can therefore travel to Galicia with that security. I already say that it is about shaping in facts something that is an objective that all administrations and all autonomous communities with competences in tourism and even the central government will pursue as a position of secure tourism, open tourism, seeking conditions that at least were not sought with that intensity until now. And so we have to be very well positioned and show that we have arguments to support these positions. Within the shock plan -- by the end of it -- the formation, fundamental. All, not only the hostels in public shelters, but many people who will also attend pilgrims in the excellent network of private hostels in Galicia, in hospitality establishments in general, tourism professionals, many institutions that are not hosts, but who care for the public, have received a very important training during these months taking advantage of the paron because of the coronovirus in health security. I think this is fundamental, demonstrable, and I think it's also a calm added to all those people who are now going to start visiting us. Like innovation, it's fundamental to adapt to new proposals that come after the coronovirus. And there's been an accelerant of tourism companies, Turislab, which is being screened; today there have been more than 80 applications, 10 have been selected, and today they're already being screened to become business realities in very little time. And we'll end up with that tourist sustainability plan that we're doing with the tourism cluster and that will mark the evolution of tourism during these two, three, three years, also adapting to this new scenario that we all have ahead of us. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, logically -- how could it be less -- speaking of the perspective we have on the front, everything that has to do with Jacob 2021-2022. It's true that you've had a very complicated start, we've had the enormous luck of having a Xacobeo biennium ahead, which will allow us to compensate without any doubt for the difficult initial months, where the Xacobeo, directly related to mobility and mobility in addition to many cases of groups and many people at once, logically, the first few months had their very committed viability, and this is the time to pull out and pull out forcefully to take advantage of the year and half that we have before. You know that we launched just a month ago a great promotional campaign, 7.9 million euros, I think it was done intelligently; firstly, because it was presented at the time it was happening, it didn't make any sense to present a promotion campaign of Xacobeo when people couldn't displace themselves; ask people to walk to Galicia when they couldn't even walk to the Town Hall. Now it's time and it's time for the potential recipients to come to Galicia for at least these six months. So, the promotional campaign "Walk to Galicia", which we want to bring to 35 million people, will go to the national market, in which all autonomous communities are competing right now, and also -- as I said before -- to the foreign market more proximity, Portugal, especially the north, but not only, and France, especially the closest part to Spain, and expanding progressively depending on how we see it is evolving international mobility. And we see right now the pilgrims who are coming, by data from the Pilgrim Care Office, almost 20% -- I think it's a completely undisputed figure -- they're already foreign pilgrims, and from then on they have to grow a lot more up to more than 50% that we've reached in 2019, and also by unseasonating our tourist flow. I'm talking about that in the early months of the year 2022, we're going to go especially to the Asian market, which is what traditionally approaches Galicia in the winter months, to gradually expand the focus and to have a full flow of many countries during the year 2022. And to do all of this, we have to be prepared to welcome all the people we're asking you to come to Galicia as a pilgrim or as a tourist. What did we do? A lot of things, too, within this shock plan. First, complete the renovation of the Monte do Gozo facilities. It couldn't be that the door to Santiago -- the place where for so many years many people were doing their last night before they came to the final destination -- it wasn't the presentation letter with which so many people stand in the head after finishing their periployment. So we needed an important renewal and we made it, almost 8 million euros that are in a renewable and I think it's being praised by everyone who knows it in a renovation. It's much more than a washing of face, and I think it's a new Mountain of Joy that you can enjoy for a month and that you'll be able to enjoy above all at the most necessary time this year and half that we're left of Xacobeo. We recovered the residential area, over 1,000 housing squares, improved lighting, gardening, catering services, shop sites, leisure areas. In collaboration with Aspanae we reformed the assistance and tourism centre. We contribute, and there's no more to see the old camp as it is now destined for Aspanae. We rehabilitate the auditorium, 45,000 people for outdoor events. As soon as possible, you will take advantage of the potential of one of the largest outdoor enclosures, at least by not talking about closed stadiums or enclosures; I believe that right now in Spain and probably in Europe is the most air-conditioned enclosures without being absolutely closed that exist for this kind of activity. We'll take advantage of it, of course, in all its intensity, we hope to do so in the year 2022. And the hostel of Mt. Gozo with these squares that I told them before, more than 1,000 squares, will reopen from July 1st. They know that in that plan that we have to reopen the shelters accompanied by the flow of pilgrims we decided -- I think with good judgment and the hand of the Private Hostel Association -- to accompany the supply to demand. And, therefore, the logic was that, if a sector that went as bad as it was when there were no pilgrims, as well as the hostel sector, which has grown so much and especially with new people in recent years, the logic was to let the private shelters be filled first and then go with the public offer. They opened more than June 30th and the intention is that on July 1st open the rest to have the full power of the entire supply of public network shelters, along with the private one, from that date on. We're going to open Vigo's hostel, 93 people, one of the biggest hostels in the public network, at the end of this month, 1.6 million euros of investment. And by giving some more figures in recent years, we've spent 10.2 million euros on creating 14 new hostels. Right now the public network will have, when these are finished that are now being built, 78 public hostels in all official roads. It is true that today, by indications of the Clinical Committee, the capacity of the hostels remains at 30%; it is also true that speaking to the sector, as I said before, speaking directly to the sector and reaching agreements has determined that, if they are groups and there is a responsible statement identified by all, they can occupy 100%; and we are also aware that, as the health situation improves, we will also have to adapt this capacity of the hostels to the real demand that, without any doubt, there will be for these two months of pilgrims. He spoke before the training of the staff who attends all those coming to Galicia. We have made a special impact on the formation of public hospital workers; we have also enabled an online platform to book squares in pilgrims' shelters; we have published guides and aids. Finally, at this point, I think we are prepared for the fluency that is already being seen in these last days. I insist, more than 2,000 pilgrims this weekend alone, on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, in addition to the fact that there was a bad climate and that is also taken into account by pilgrims in planning their journey. We're going to continue to work also in the conservation, signification and embellishment of the roads, I think this is very important and anyone who usually makes the paths of Santiago, who runs through these areas, will see that there were a number of corners, sometimes small and needed only small performances, but that they completely change the face and identification and the view with which many pilgrims are left from places that were degraded or at least not adapted to the environment where they met it and that now, with these small performances, they are being achieved. We're talking about EUR 33.9 million to do these small actions and also for something very important and fundamental, which is to adapt the paths and that are perfectly prepared. The last path that has been adapted, the works are practically finished, is also the last way to be officially recognized, I'm talking about the Winter Road, an investment of nearly a million and a half euros that allows you also to have it in terms of transmissibility, appropriate conditions, also cleaning conditions, attention to any incidence, which is what pilgrims usually claim. Also very important, the scope of signaling. Over the past two years we have invested six million euros in marking the different Jacobean routes. Let's hope that a homogeneous signaling, recognizable everywhere, identifiable by any pilgrim and anyone, I think is fundamental to that image of the Way brand that interests us so much, not only in Galicia, but also in the other autonomous communities that cross the roads and also in many foreign countries that have itineraries of Jacob. Here, let me stop for a moment in the incomprehensible situation today and for many times, and now that we are opening the Vigo hostel, the incomprehensible situation that is the only city in Spain and probably in Europe that continues to refuse to have a homogeneous signage of the Way, is more, to have no signage, which is causing many pilgrims, when they arrive and use the GPS and lose what is really the trace and signal of the Way and go to places where they should not normally have or have to go. I appreciate that effort and collaboration of Vigo's own hosts who do not understand this situation either and who have joined Galician Union in order to be able to at least mark with approved signs, not those who would stand if the Galician Union could mark, as we did everywhere on the Way, but at least it will allow something so simple and so absurd if you think about it as it is to allow because yes and by the whim of some that pilgrims are lost with the intention to erase the footprint of the Way in a place where everyone should benefit. So I want to thank you publicly here for that effort of the lodgers, of the Vigo merchants who understood that it is a situation that has no explanation. Mr. President, by going to finish now, I could refer to many other actions that are in the shock plan and which are directed especially, and as it is logical, to revitalize tourism by thinking of the Way of Jacob, on the Jacobean roads this year and half that we have before us, but, for not extending myself yet, and thinking about what other interventions are left, thank you, because here is fundamental, the work and the irreplaceable support that the associations make, the many associations, not only in Galicia, especially in Galicia, but also many other autonomous communities, that make associations of Friends of the Way advising us, warning us of the failures that may be, promoting the Way, spreading it. This is an impassable task that allows, moreover, that this very important aspect of the Jacobean which is the cultural programming, apart from what is the pilgrimage itself, the Way itself, is a reality that we are very interested in continuing to develop, for which the "Your Jacobean" Programme (which has been invested between the two editions nearly 6 million euros, almost 4 euros in this second edition) is allowing to bring the spirit of James and what is the Jacobean to many places, not only those who cross a path, which are more than 100 municipalities in Galicia, but the 313 Greek municipalities in a work of socio-cultural dynamization that is very important and that we have to take advantage of this year and medium in order to do so. And also talk about concerts, which are the footprints, one of any Xacobeo's identity signs, and they're slowly catching up. We hope that next year, he spoke before the Jacobean compound, with those nearly 50,000 squares, it can also be the great year to make those concerts that everyone identifies and that everyone accepts as one of the great signs, I say, of the Jacobean identity, but this year we start with a much smaller capacity and we wait for the year that comes to be able to do it with much more intensity. Just as we will present as soon as the conditions are determined, I suppose, because this will come out in the replicas, in the interventions of some groups, the programming of Xacobeo. And here I want to make a reflection. If we've been presenting a Xacobeo schedule six months ago, eight years ago, as if we were being asked, we'd be rectifying ourselves on the march all the time, because there's a lot of activities that require interior planning, shelters, group movements, which we can't do until we know the conditions in which they're going to be able to develop. So here I acquire the commitment that as soon as this is determined, apart from everything we're doing right now, concerts adapted to the health standards we have right now, programming of "Your Xacobeo" also adapted to all this, to making a programming and, of course, a broadcast and of course here in Parliament of the Xacobeo programming in the year and half. Not in the year and a half because it's after summer, but in the time that we're left, adapted to what we want to be a big Jacobeo with big events, with very important planning, but it needs a health certainty that we're finally beginning to realize. To say that all of this will also be very coordinated with what is the Xacobeo National Plan 2021-2022. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this plan was presented last Friday in Oviedo city incomprehensiblely. Here an agreement has been adopted unanimously in this Parliament to ask the Government of Spain something as logical as that the National Plan Xacobeo, a national tourist event in the words of the minister himself, to present itself where everyone would have accepted, including all the autonomous communities, that it was that presentation, where everyone identifies it and more in a year Xacobeo, which is right to explain anything related to the paths of Santiago, which is the Autonomous Community of Galicia and I understand that the city of Santiago. There was a formal invitation not answered, not even answered in a obvious lack of courtesy for the ministry, and what we learned through a summons is that, without knowing whether the allegations proposed by Galicia, that we did them, and I think that very reasonably, would be estimated or not, then we saw that most of them were not in that presentation at Oviedo. The plan was presented in the Autonomous Community of Asturias, which, with all due respect and, of course, thanking you for your interest in Xacobeo, I believe that it does not allow a comparison in a Holy Year with the need to be presented in Galicia. This plan was presented, we made a series of claims, we thank and we said as soon as we know that there was an important part, the third part of the funds destined for the rehabilitation of the artistic heritage, aimed at rehabilitating heritage in Galicia, which I think is very good and, therefore, we greet, we will ask for more amount, but we understand that we are talking about many autonomous communities. This is the positive part that the plan might have, to say some positive part. Then all the proposals made on road safety, voluntary coordination, road conditioning, dissemination and joint promotion, all this has been completely ignored. Only if we refer to a series of calls with European money that have already been sold to other programs in the ministry, therefore there is obvious duplication here, we could discuss the figures: 120 million; only the Galician Union will put 85 this year, 120 million in two years, that is 60 every year, and destined for the whole of the autonomous communities. We don't know how much Galicia will touch. We don't understand why there's no planned action, if we're talking about a National Plan of Jacobeo there are things that, as long as we're in the middle of a biennium of Jacobeo, should be ready, we can't wait for the time to present projects, if these projects are rated, if they are selected and if they are -- if our proposals are selected -- running very well in the year 2022. If we want to do things seriously, the logical thing is to plan seriously; and if we want to talk -- I say -- about road conditioning, homogenization of shelters, signage, security would be so important, the logical thing is that all of this was reflected in a plan that has a lot of inaccuracies. And we'd like to say another thing because Galicia played very much that this plan had the content that everyone and everyone cares about. It is not logical that for a hypothetical tourist event, if you are going to celebrate in Barcelona next year, there are 20 million registered in the state's general budgets for the year 2021 and there is absolutely nothing for the Xacobeo National Plan destined for Galicia. Therefore, we must continue, I hope for this House's support, to continue to claim what Galicia is interested in and what Galicia above all has the right, and that the Central Government understands that this is an event, we are very interested in it as a national event, but it must of course be an event that has a fundamental reference in Galicia. So, ladies and gentlemen -- and I'm done now, Mr. President -- I was talking to you at the beginning of my intervention that, after such a tough situation as this, we started to abbiscate on the horizon data that moves us to hope at all, to regain our normal life, because at the end of the tourism theme, the theme of mobility is also going to have a normal life and, therefore, to be able to enjoy many things that during this year and a half were absolutely vested in us. So we want them to enjoy them or we want to enjoy them first of all the Welsh and Welsh, which we show that we want to make tourism with the tourist bonus on our own land and then we want a lot of people, with the intelligence of understanding that this will gradually expand the territorial banana, but in principle we have to go to the tourism of proximity, we want a lot of people to come to Galicia this year and what's coming. We're talking about 10% of our GDP and 11% of our employment and therefore we're very interested in them, and it's probably one of the motors of reactivation or recovery from Galicia probably not, sure it's on the side of tourism. We have nature, we have the calm that is now going to search for many people, we have landscapes, we have open spaces, 863 beaches, an insurmountable thermal supply, 6 natural parks, gastronomy, culture, we have finally, lords, lots of things that I've already been looking for so many people, but now you're going to look for a lot more. So you have to invite everyone to enjoy our land, you have to understand that the tourist sector needs the help of all administrations and, of course, the Council of Galicia is going to have it. It must be understood that Jacob, regardless of one's opinion, is a tourist event, it is an opportunity that we must not take advantage of. I'm telling you, because it's also something that really likes to tell BNG: tourism is much more than Xacobeo. Of course, Galicia has lots of things aside from Jacob, but without any doubt this year and half as many people are going to seek and look at the values that Jacob perfectly incarnates, we are at the right time and, above all, in the right place to take advantage of all this, and Jacob can be a perfect anchor so that for the first time many people come closer to Galicia and have a lot of desire to return, have a lot of desire to prolong their stay and have a lot of desire to know a little better about this land. So I invite the whole House to join this challenge, to make this Xacobeo 2021-2022 the reproduction of the huge opportunity that we have ahead of us and to recover the lost land that the pandemic has caused us to lose and that can be recovered with care, but I believe that the fast steps take into account the figures that we came before the pandemic and the figures that we should recover. So we walk together, ladies and gentlemen, also on this path to economic recovery and, if you allow me, also very important, anemic in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u142	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Vice President first. And I thought, vice president, that I would finally know the programming of the Xacobeo and, if I may say so, my joy in a well! I thought, after half a year we've been from Xacobeo, the Galician Board would tell us about the actions planned in the Xacobeo 2021-2022 programming, but I can see it's not. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for up to three times in this Parliament to have updated information and continues on what programming would consist, the reformulation of what you and Mr Feijóo do Xacobeo talked about. And what was the answer? For the answer was the same as you just gave us here: generic things, things that were going to be done in the 313 municipalities of Galicia, but nothing concrete, nothing concrete. And, Mr. Rueda, I'm not telling you to make macroconcerts or macroacts, but you can do small acts, and you're not doing anything. You can do small acts, we know we're in a pandemic, but you can do small acts. Tourism, without a doubt, is one of the most affected sectors of the health crisis and, after a very complicated year, with the current nullity of some periods, employers and professionals, trust that the Xacobeo 2021-2022 helps to reactivate it, that's undeniable. The tourism sector, the hospitality sector, the trade sector, the cultural sector, the municipalities and citizenship in general would like to know the programming of Xacobeo 2021-2022. They've been waiting till now to see if something comes out, but we see that they still don't know what the Galician Union is going to do. We don't think these sectors deserve to know what these Xacobeo acts are going to be today. I'm telling you, they don't have to be macroconcerts, but if you can do, I think, smaller acts. Tourism in Galicia has to go beyond Xacobeo. It's a good brand, without any doubt, a very good opportunity for tourism, but the autonomous executive has to invest more in tourism; the budget departure that has increased most is that of Xacobeo, there is no substantial increase in any other budget departure after this year so critical to the tourism sector. And the aids for the tourist sector are mere patches, and here I'm going to stop for a moment, because you alluded to travel agencies. The truth is, I'm quite drawn to the attention of travel agencies; when travel agencies wanted to meet with you, you didn't want to. What is more, here this parliamentary group has brought several initiatives on travel agencies because those agencies were not in the help of the first part that you pulled. There were no travel agencies. And after we've brought here a number of initiatives, and they've shown themselves out here in this Parliament, it's when the Galician board has helped travel agencies -- which, it's correct, it's been good to rectify, but I'm surprised that you're talking about travel agencies. By the way, travel agencies that have a problem, I don't know if they know, but I'm telling you, with the tourist bonus, they're having a big problem because it turns out that the TPV is non-digital TPV, they're presentable. So travel agencies, for example, who are online, can't do banking transactions, so they have a little big problem there. By the way, yes, yes, yesterday I've been called several travel agencies that are having this problem, that the tourist bonus isn't digital, has to be present. Yes, yes, it is. They called me several agencies yesterday. But I'm telling you to see if you can do something, in a constructive way, that they have this big problem. Without any doubt, we have many options for tourism in our community, which the Galician Union should encourage and take in budgets, as is the case with thermal tourism. They make strategic thermal tourism plans for each province, not just for Ourense, there are more thermal tourism provinces. It would also be good if Mr. Feijóo's government had done an autonomous programming of thermalism, not only for Imserso, but for you to make a programming of thermalism in Galicia, dependent on the Galician Union. Give it to rural tourism, as much as you need. The restrictions on travel around the world because of the pandemic have led the vast majority of our country's citizenship to give up their foreign travels and many have opted for rural tourism. It is necessary for the Autonomous Government to approach rural tourism as an essential axis in Galicia's tourist strategy. The Galician Union must respond to the demands of this sector and, to that end, it must use tourism as a means of wealth that enables rural development to be valued and to fight against depopulation, taking advantage of the so-called effect and the new sensitivity towards the rural generated by the pandemic, so that the population will return to work in rural areas and in time allow people to go like tourists and know our wealth. For this reason, our parliamentary group has called for a new rural tourism plan for a five-year period containing measurable targets and economic accounts to be able to develop it. Arrangen, Mr. Rueda, the problem of geodestines; the autonomous government would have to proceed with the development of the regulatory framework to clearly define the process of creating geodestines, as well as the definition of its governing bodies, functions, competences and mechanisms for modifying the map. They dialogue with mayors and mayors, but not only on the themes of geodestinies, but also in the thermal villages, they also dialogue with mayors and mayors, and in all political colors by themselves, they dialogue with them. And besides, of course, we cannot forget the beaches and the gastronomy, which are the star product of our tourism, without doubt. We have a lot of tourism options on our land, but they're not being backed up all the way from the Autonomic Administration. It's a shame to let go of this opportunity to relaunch Greek tourism. On the other hand, I would like to make a small mention of the 134 million people who come from the Government of Spain, because first their biggest problem was that the Government didn't give Galicia money. Well, there were 134 million, now they're insufficient, but they're also insufficient, but more importantly, what they require is not right, we'll see if they spend 134 million, but they've also received 441 million of the recovery aid funds for the cohesion and territories of Spain's Government of Spain, with the same objective. Let us hope that the Galician Union will use these funds for tourism. And to tell you that, for the Government of Spain, the celebration of the year Xacobeo is a very important event to promote and increase the knowledge and fame of the Way of Santiago in international markets, so it will collaborate with the Council of Galicia in its celebration. The Xacobeo National Tourism Plan 2021-2022, presented last week, is a project to promote the streets of Santiago as a cultural and heritage product throughout the country with an investment that exceeds the 121 million euros, which will be financed from the next Generation funds, and will be made an official presentation in Galicia of the Xacobeo National Tourism Plan 2021-2022. It will, it will. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] According to Minister Maroto, the Xacobeo Plan incorporates measures to conserve and better take advantage of Santiago's roads and promote tourism and economic activity, and it's a great country project that unites us around a unique cultural, heritage and social offer. The plan is structured around five main investment axes: the National Tourism Sustainability Plan in Xacobeo destination 2021-2022, with 45 million; Tourist Product Development Programme, with 5 million; sustainable projects for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the historical heritage of tourism use of Santiago roads, with over 65 million; Intelligent Tourist Destinations Programme, to which 5 million will be allocated; and the International Promotion Programme. Here the Government of Spain currently has 103 shares associated with the promotion of the Way of Santiago and the Xacobeo 2021-2022. Some of them highlight, for example, the photographic exhibition in Oslo, the presentation to the Xacobeo 2021-2022 press in Chicago, Rome, Paris, Lisbon. Local campaigns in Italy, Ireland and Brazil; formation of agents in Mexico, Russia; 36 international press trips; 21 travel of agents, 2 of them specifically oriented to accessible tourism in Dublin and Tokyo. As you can see, the Government of Spain is involved with the Xacobeo. The involvement of the Government of the State is total. They're on the way to Santiago and they're on the Xacobeo. I won't get tired of repeating that the central government's involvement with the Xacobeo is total. I know, and you will repeat again and again that the Government of Spain does nothing, but I will repeat that yes, and here I am telling you everything the Government of Spain is doing. Yes, because you're doing a lot of things, what happens is that I'll read some more to you later because now I don't have time, but the central government's involvement with Jacob is total. I told him the other day right here in the plenary and I'll tell him again every time you say the government doesn't do anything. But yes, there are all the questions that the Government of the State is making. The Ministry of Transport, for example, opened Mr. Abalos last week the opening and stairway crypt with 1.4 million. It's an example of Ah, who isn't from the Government of Spain, Mr. Abalos, ah, I thought. [[Murmurs.]] Well, it's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u145	...well, we all talk, well, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u146	Quiet, please. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u147	...there are nails
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u148	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u149	...there are about 150 projects running with the state reaching more than 60 municipalities throughout Galicia. The Ministry of Transport commits an action plan on road safety in the Way of Santiago with a global investment of 12.5 million. One of the most involved ministries is, of course, culture. The Xacobeo Program for the Conservation and Improvement of Cultural Property is an investment between 2019 and 2022 of 30 million euros, which consists of more than 30 projects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u150	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Look at the clock, please. It's done, it's done. Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u151	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda, and glad to have you around. I know that for PP this is not the country of never again, but what we have clear from BNG is that this is not the country of never, and of course you are not Peter Pan. Listening to his speech today gives the impression that in Galicia the pandemic did not strike excessively, especially in comparison to the rest of the Spanish State, that the tourist sector is delighted with the measures adopted so far by the Union and that expectations are boisterous; and that is not so, that is not true. The tourism and hospitality sector of Galicia was undoubtedly one of the most punished by the pandemic. Only in 2020 did 3,400 hosts in this country, an average of 10 per day, according to data from the Galician Federation of Real Estate Companies. The so-called rescue plans articulated by the Galician Union from November have brought some relief to the serious liquidity problems of the sector, which is undeniable, but the problem is that for nine months, from March to November, they have been completely forgotten by both the autonomous government and the state government. And besides those plans were not enough, there are already two that have been articulated and are waiting to collect that third plan. Since the beginning of the political course, we have been presenting initiatives in which we were asking for a genuine rescue plan for the sector that, starting from a real dialogue with a broad and plural representation of the sector around a technical work table, contains direct assistance on a sufficient scale, but, most importantly, other tax relief measures that halt the hemorrhage of closing bars, cafes, hotels and restaurants throughout our country. In this way, Junta could have exercised the leadership that had been demanded by the sector to claim from the Spanish State the adoption of these tax measures which, of course, are of State competence. By the way, BNG and PP committed to the Commission an initiative which called for a reduction in tourism and cultural VAT. So, I don't know if it was on you, but, of course, I want to make it quite clear. Initiatives that were, in any case, rejected through the knee by the PP Parliamentary Group, the BNG initiatives. In the face of the new situation created by the pandemic, we also urge again and again from the Government of Galicia the necessary redefinition of the tourism model and a reorientation of the Xacobeo. The pandemic situation at the Greek level, at the Spanish and international level, advised -- although it was only for prudence and responsibility -- to give a twist to that traditional conception that the Greek Government has of Xacobeo. But for months the Union did not vary an apex to its roadmap with respect to Jacob. Thus, during the toughest months of the year 2020 for the tourism sector -- in which due to the pandemic it was not possible to develop virtually any activity or event -- the Galician Union has used an budget of 82 million euros for Xacobeo in 2020 to prepare and condition the paths of the Way of Santiago, the hostels or the Mount of Gozo for the arrival of future pilgrims. And you expressed it at the last appearance you had here, I think by November or December. Meanwhile, 10 tourism-related businesses were closing every day, something that should have been inescapable, of course, for a responsible and empathic Government. They let a very important part of the business tissue associated with tourism become rubble, and above all -- which is more serious -- they were small businesses in most of them, relatives, who finally lowered the grid during those months of abandonment on the part of both the state and the state. In an exercise of irresponsibility and lack of waist, Mr. Feijó's Government continued to postpone decisions that could have prevented this outcome, obsessed by continuing to bet on a traditional Jacobean who needed a change of course many months ago. In those months that go from March to the present day, the entire budget of the Xacobeo has been destined to improve the signaling of the roads and to arrest the lights of "Fire the Xacobeo." Precisely those lights were the ones that missed the German Government and above all the amplitude of glances. That obsession with a gross Xacobeo model, with large events and territorially centralized what I assumed for the Welsh tourist sector was to lose many months and, worst of all, I assumed a lot of closures. And, ten months ago, it's when the pilgrims are starting to reach our country. The improvement of the epidemiological situation in the form of a slow drop in the infections and the advance of the vaccination campaign allowed for a relaxation, of course, of the sanitary and restricted movement measures; and the arrival of the first tourists but in their vast majority of national and neighbouring Portugal -- as you well pointed out --. And the extension of Jacobobeo to the year 2022 I'm sure it allowed them to breathe relieved, Mr. Rueda -- to everyone, logically, but to you more -- because if the paperboard wasn't going to be in trouble. Because this year 2021 the tourism sector in Greece is going to have to spin over domestic tourism, as you said well, but, by the announcement so far, the same mistake is being repeated, the concerts of the Perseidas Road are again confined to a specific geographic location -- in this case, to the Mount of Gozo -- so the economic return will be very limited to the city of Santiago de Compostela. In the reactivation committee's proposal, the PP Group speaks of the territorial decentralisation of the event, referring to Xacobeo, but the facts say otherwise, they remain unchanged. Xacobeo is a great brand, but it's not going to be the salvation chalice of the Welsh tourist sector in a year as complicated and unstable as it is in 2021. It's going to help, but it's not going to be the fundamental axis to reactivate the sector, as you spoke to the South Korean Minister of Tourism recently. And I make this reference more than anything to refer to international tourist flows; in fact, it will take more time to re-establish itself. So until 2022 the influx of foreign tourists will not reach Galicia nor even the data of the year 2019; and we all know the importance of international tourism for Xacobeo, it is a fundamental foot of the heel. Perhaps that is why he announced this promotional campaign with 8 million euros to attract tourists to Galicia. And the problem is not to spend these 8 million euros on promotion, but that investment is part of the very concept that the PP of Xacobeo has, a huge auto-bomb campaign, an instrument of propaganda for the service of the Government of Galicia and the PP, but not from the very beginning of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because it doesn't make sense to talk about foreign promotion if you don't talk about issues that you're talking about today in your first intervention or you've appointed, as it can be explained by what managements or negotiations have been carried out by the Council of Galicia with the Spanish Government, in parallel to this promotional investment, to achieve that Galicia is a consolidated tourist destination at the international level. Because to be a consolidated tourist destination at the international level, this requires improving air connections, that is, there are regular flights at least with the main European capitals, something that is now ill with Galicia. Do you know what is currently the first airport in Galicia at the reception of visitors to Galicia? Francisco Sá Carneiro, from Porto, basically. While there is news of direct flight losses from and to the airports of Greece. [[Applause]] It would be essential for the German Government to invest and bet clearly to achieve that improvement of air connectivity. What's it worth promoting abroad if we don't make it easier for potential tourists to have direct flights, that is, to travel comfortably and directly to our country? It is also necessary to improve rail connections. On the one hand, the high speed, which would connect us to the rest of the state. In theory, this year they should take steps in this direction, as announced in the press, but with the delays accumulated for years they will have to understand that we are sceptical with the deadlines and, above all, with the managements carried out. And it would also be very important if I could enhance what the proximity train would be, i.e. the proximity train, i.e. if we were to have a year marked above all by inland tourism. It would also be very important to consolidate in the international circuits of large cruises, but in a planned and sustainable way, or to empower and fight for the strengthening of the Atlantic axis, our situation within what would be the Atlantic axis. That is why it would also be good if you pointed out to us that management or meetings were held in that direction from the German Government; or, for example, that alliances are seeking the European PP to consolidate this Atlantic axis. If the Greek Government had worked on these aspects, if I were told that there is progress in some of them, massive advocacy campaigns abroad -- like those of 8 million euros for the promotion of Xacobeo -- would be consistent. But if you haven't advanced on these issues, that promotion is the usual one, it smokes and propaganda, but in this case it is propaganda of the face. Because to deal with these issues, which are fundamental to the sector and for Galicia to become a consolidated tourist destination, you need something that you lack: political weight. Or, what's the same, have the ability to access those forums where decisions are made that are vital, in this case, for the tourism sector in Galicia. And especially to achieve political and institutional respect at all levels, both in the Spanish State and in Europe. But this can only be achieved in one way, Mr Rueda: by sinking into self-government, by assuming all and each of the competences that legitimately correspond to our country. Just what Mr. Feijóo's government escapes from the fire -- as my colleague Luís Bará pointed out well in the morning. That's all it's possible to maintain a strong and respected country position, moving forward in self-government, and you know that. During the pandemic, the Government of Greece, instead of seeking spaces of understanding and dialogue with the Spanish State that allowed for consensus on measures to favour the reactivation in this case of the tourism sector, went on to seek political confrontation, sparking a partisan, sterile struggle, with the sole intention of exhausting the central government and blatantly promoting the image of the great leader, Mr Feijóo. And I am not exempt from responsibilities in this sterile game the Government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, because two don't fight if one doesn't want to. What's perceived in Jacob, which more clearly flourished with the pandemic, was that image of black hole from the budget point of view. But this is not unintentional, it's premeditated, because it's very convenient for you: they focus on investment in Xacobeo and from there they sell that the Board invests in culture, in promotion of tourism or in improved infrastructure, but all in a very opaque and confusing way. If we want a sustainable tourism model and wealth generator for the country, we need an economic return planning. Any tourism model or demand, know in concrete terms how much will be collected for each euro invested in tourism. The Xacobeo can't just be understood as spending. Tell me, then, if there are those economic return studies of the investee, if that's the way, please explain, tell me where we can access them. Because, if it doesn't exist, maybe we're even right that Xacobeo has much more than pure propaganda for the Greek Government and for the PP. I'm done right now, Mr. President. What there is no doubt is that Xacobeo absorbs investments that should go to other vital issues for Galicia from a tourist point of view. We've said it more than once, but that's why we're not going to stop repeating it: thermal tourism, but spread throughout Galicia; urban tourism; cultural tourism or nautical tourism. That they complement Jacobobeo because -- let's say it again -- it's a good tool. And at the same time they allow the diversification of the tourist offer and achieve a more distributive and fair model with the whole territory. There's no reason -- we understand -- for self-purchasing, but yes for self-criticism, and we barely listen here today to your first intervention. Learn from mistakes to improve, something that from the PP, in view of his speech, of course does not exist. Nothing else on my part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u152	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Verea Fraiz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u153	Thank you, President. Vice-President. By March 2020 Galicia was completing record figures, improving quantity, improving the quality of its tourism products, improving competitiveness, improving added value and being one of the most important sectors not only as a percentage of employment and GDP, but above all as a result of its ability to drag the rest of the productive sectors, and also as a key piece in the different value chains. We know this from the very first moment, Galicia was the first autonomous community to approve a plan of shock or aid for tourism, did it on 30 April 2020, and I think it is a date that, over the months, has special value. At the beginning of the pandemic, the Galician Union was able to draw up and approve the first shock plan. The pandemic has changed everything, changed them personally, changed them professionally, is also changing the productive sectors. And, therefore, a question arises: what will future tourism be like? How will post-pandemic tourism be? And to be honest, because there is no clear answer, there are trends, there are indicators, but there is no clear answer. It will be a sustainable tourism, without a doubt, one that takes advantage of resources but allows them not to wear out and move on to future generations; it distributes wealth among the most local communities. A tourism that will value the secondary destinations that up to now were out of the tourist circuit or directly they were not tourist destinations and from now on because they will be. The new technologies to search for those more custom, more singular travels. Of course, nature, open spaces, that's in all of our private surroundings, that reunion of all society with the natural environment. And all this within that Galicia as a secure destination, because the security value, the variable security is fundamental. The future tourist consumer will have as a fundamental variable security, that place that is not safe health will be out of the destination of future visitors. I think it's important to highlight -- it must be said -- that the tourism industry in Wales in all this context did not have the support of the Central Government, did not have the support of the Government of President Sánchez. Every time we looked at Madrid we received disappointment after disappointment, disappointment with direct help. There's no national tourist rescue plan, no. The euro, the money, the money that has so far received from entrepreneurs and self-employed people are either from the Galician Union or from local administrations. Disappointment with the tourist VE, which made a formal request to this Parliament by the hand of the BNG and the People's Party asking for the reduction of the tourism and cultural VE, and was not heeded; it was a measure of high impact, an important measure, in addition to the collapse of the whole sector. And, of course, disappointment with the commitment to Xacobeo, no institutional commitment, no political commitment, no economic commitment. And we have the example of a few days ago, last week, this plenary 15 days ago unanimously calls for a political gesture, a simple gesture, which was to make the presentation of the National Plan of the Xacobeo in Galicia, and at few hours that plan is announced in Oviedo. I have no evidence that the Parliament of the Principality of Asturias has formally requested this presentation, but what is true is that all of us here in this House have asked for this political gesture and what we have had was a new contempt for Jacob and a new contempt for a formal request made by this House. This parliamentary group understands that it has always asked for and criticized the shortcomings or not carrying out certain actions by the Government of Pedro Sánchez in time and in form. And we've usually found ourselves in silence as an answer and on other occasions simply opposing decisions, as we've just seen. It is important to highlight this lack of a national tourism rescue plan, a national plan that was also requested and recommended, the European institutions rebuked the Government of Spain for not having activated this tourism rescue plan for the sector. The Vice-President of the Commission himself, as I say, directly rebuked the Government of Spain for not asking for that aid package. And so they don't care about the European institutions, they don't care about the sector and much less about the Galician Parliament. And, as I said before, the sector has not been able to count on the support of the Central Government. It passes into health care, economic policy, political policy and, therefore, the Galician Union and this parliamentary group have to articulate autonomous or autochthonous solutions as they have been or are being these rescue plans, the most efficient, the most economically intensive ones in the whole state. And also, of course, we tried under that principle of unity of action to put in place that great rescue set that couldn't go forward. It would have been an example for the whole society where they participated -- that was our proposal -- all the municipalities regardless of political colors, the deputies, the Fegamp, the Galician Union; a plan that would have been efficient, that would have been effective and, above all, would have been fair, because it would have reached all the autonomous and all the entrepreneurs regardless of where they were in Galicia. And it would also arrive at the same time, and as I say, in amounts and in a fair and balanced way. He didn't go ahead with a political decision by the PSdeG, a political decision that at the time was justified, it was said that it was better to have 300 plans in the municipalities, 4 in the deputies and 1 in the Galician Union. Well, it was a political justification that has already turned us around, but the effects are there. Most of the municipalities didn't activate those plans, most of the deputies didn't activate those plans, and so what we're asking for now is at least an assumption of responsibilities for that political decision that has these consequences. That money is blocked in the Town Councils of the PSdeG and in the PSdeG Deputies, and it's not in the pockets of the German self-employed and businessmen. So, as I say, at least a recognition of that error, a recognition or a assumption of responsibility because the consequences, as I say, are there. This parliamentary group will continue to support the Galician Union while the Galician Union maintains its political commitment, institutional commitment and economic commitment to the sector. And this parliamentary group will also continue to urge the Central Government to activate axile measures and solutions, real solutions, effective solutions and to join in the collective effort that we are doing all the Greeks to get out of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u154	Thank you, Mr. Verea Fraiz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, first vice-president and chairman, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to try to answer the things that were said from this rostrum, especially by the interveners on behalf of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. I'm starting with the Socialist Party. Mrs. Gallego, it's very difficult if you mix me, if we don't talk to the figures by putting some rigor, it's just that I honestly lose myself. He told me about 134 million, so I don't know if it's the 121 coming to Plan Xacobeo, so what I'm telling you is that it's 121 in two years, 60, 85 nothing more than the board of Galicia this year and, of course, the plan is presented in Oviedo. Or it's the 234, which is already 100 more... Oh, it's the 234. So I'm telling you that it's 40% less than you had to correspond not to Galicia, but to the Greek hostess and that the central government, the Government of Mr. Sánchez, without any explanation we sat down and told us or this or nothing, are you going to share with a series of bureaucratic obstacles that are impossible to apply in practice -- hopefully not, because we've improved enough of those rules that gave us -- but, in the end, if they're 234, where is 40% corresponding to the tourism sector in Galicia and that we've been stolen directly from this initial assignment? So firstly, rigour with the figures and secondly, that we know the figures they represent and, above all, what they could represent if there was a real commitment by the State administration to the tourism sector in Galicia and the fundamental event that the Xacobeo is supposed to have. Because, if you tell me too, Mrs. Gallego, about the extraordinary tourist sustainability plan, what I'll tell you is that, just as a socialist finally talks in Galicia about what the National Plan is supposed to be, even if it has to be a parliamentarian... that is, as the Government you're not coming from, the government you're defending, at least came here to tell us: first, I'll hear from you that the National Plan is going to be presented by Xacobeo in Galicia. Wouldn't it be normal for you, first, that you had already presented it and, second, if it's going to be like this, tell us, that I don't have to know for you? Do you think it's institutional courtesy and a normal way to relate to a government that says, in your opinion, that Jacob values the administration that represents the end of all the roads? Well, I'll take it for granted, I'll tell the ministry if one day you're worthy to tell us, we don't know, a member of your group has already told you, Minister, because you haven't told us anything. They're going to be here presenting the Xacobeo National Plan. Well, welcome, see what they tell us. See if we're also told by way of the extraordinary tourist sustainability plan, which you referred to as a money mana that will arrive for tourism in Galicia. Listen, welcome, eh! But I have to tell you that we made allegations that, of course, like those of the national plan that have not been answered to us, we don't know if they like them, if they don't like them, if they're going to be taken into account; we don't know anything about how it works that this ministry and the ministries in general, I have to say that. And, well, to see if they finally tell us something, because it's already agreed twice, that I can understand it, but they're already two times pleased and, therefore, the June commitment has already been breached and we're going to enter the month of July and we have no idea what guidelines will mark the Ministry of Tourism for Employment by the autonomous communities of the money coming from the Extraordinary Sustainability Plan. If they're so important, the logic is that at this point something would have to know. So, since you're doing the job, you understand me in the right way, because here you've announced us the Minister's visit, because you also tell them that we are wishing, I suppose all the autonomous communities, to tell us, at last, when something as important as European tourism funds is to be explained to Galicia. That's for starters. And he tells us that since the Central Government is not committed to Jacob, Mr. Abalos has been here opening a crypt -- by the way, it comes within a general plan arranged and recorded by Mr. Rajoy -- ; man, the other alternative was that he had stopped the works in the cathedral. As bad as he didn't, it's good that he comes for a little piece to announce to us that. Now, if that's going to be all your commitment, finish the works that Mr. Rajoy's government has started, don't stop them, and say that's your commitment, we know what we can expect. [[Applause]] And I'm really sorry, really, because this is really a topic that Galicia cares a lot about. You say it, and I already imagined it, because I said it earlier... you're very free to talk about Xacobeo, of course, from the point of view of what you want, but you really believe that the whole problem with Xacobeo is that we don't announce what programming is... I've already tried to explain to you in this audience and in the previous one I've had. I, if you like, tell them what we have prepared to receive the countries that most pilgrims issue to Santiago when they can move. But the first thing is to know when you can move to know when we can schedule the events, how many will be able to come. If you want me to tell you how we're going to dimension the concerts, that you talk a lot about the concerts. No, it's okay, it's something that interests and interests everyone, but there's more to the concerts than to talk about the concerts and we'll have to know how many people we're going to be able to play. You want me to tell you what the concerts are going to be like in three months, within four they're changing their seats? He wants me to come here and tell him, that's not what I said to him. It's not worth nothing, because now he's changed luckier, worse. Don't you realize that all of this requires planning? Don't you realize that, in the meantime, we're doing things? I'm very concerned, Mrs. Gallego, that the more than 500 of the two editions of acts that have "Your Xacobeo", some with a lot of reflection in the media, some with a lot of impact because cultural associations that had previously not received a single money from any administration and now thanks to the Xacobeo can schedule certain acts of a certain entity. That in more than 500 you don't sound the first one, when they've done practically all the Town Councils. That you, as I suppose you are obliged to follow up on the things that are going to be done, don't you know there's something called "Jacobeo Cities", we announced the other day at the Board of Trustees, which is going to schedule performances in cities too, will not decentralize, continue with the decentralization of the Xacobeo that is being done since the Unity of Galicia with all these activities. Well, tell me that there is nothing and that here is the important thing and, above all, what matters to the tourist sector is knowing the planning of a series of activities that we cannot know for sure yet because we cannot dimension them. I announced here that we are going... in September when we have a certain certainty -- it is worth redundancy -- what we're going to be able to do and what countries are going to come and all that, there will be a schedule, it will be a schedule that will be postponed and so many times recast until we can introduce it and fulfill it. Because you're very fond... look, to make inconcrete and generalities, for that, your central government's plans are already there, I mean, the Xacobeo National Plan, 17 sheets full of inconcrete, full of things that you still have to submit requests, projects, watch it, discuss it, gather us... No, no, we don't want the Xacobeo Plan of Galician Promotion Board to be that. For inconcretions and for not doing anything right now are you, Mrs. Gallego. So when we present the plan, we will do it knowing what can be done, who can come and how you can dimension the acts and how you can do all that. They will also do with the sponsors, who also ask us to pack things up until we really know those things that can be sponsored. If you want, to please your group and don't say that here the important thing is not the direct help we gave to the lodgers when they were drowned and when no one else helped them, no, no. The hostess would care to know who's coming to play in a concert next year. What they care about is what microacts we're going to do in eight months. No, Mrs Gallego, what matters to people is that we help them and that we are focused on what we've been doing all this time, which is to rescue a tourist sector that, if not, would die; give them hope and actually do things in tune with that sector. It's funny, really, to tell me we don't meet with travel agencies. Hey, what do you mean? It's just, if you want, I'll show you the times we meet. We won't meet with those who meet you at best, I don't know. Of course the ones we sit with are 95% of the sector. You tell me here that the tourist bonus is worth nothing: 20,000 people on a waiting list, 140,000 applications at the same time. It's not worth anything, it doesn't like anyone because online agencies, which are 10% of the entire sector, have difficulty programming it and that we haven't done anything for them. Listen, and the Elixe Galicia program, I suppose you'll know it and you'll know that the Elixe Galicia program, which is 3 million euros, is vehicled all through travel agencies. Maybe the ones you meet aren't you, but the majority sector, and I'm talking 90%, yes, that they designed it. They were the ones who told us how to help them, they were the ones who said: commit yourself, we don't want programming of things we still don't know if they're gonna be able to be or not, we want to help ourselves now. That's what we did. Of course, I would recommend you to speak to everyone, not just with a specific sector, which can be very critical to the Galician Union legitimately, but which certainly does not represent the whole sector at all. Because that's how you understand the set and understand what's going on and if you don't, it's quite hard. And tell me about the thermalism that doesn't... I already know that thermalism is much more than Ourense. Well, you will agree that thermalism was born in Ourense; therefore, if we are presented with plans, we will have to support them. And what do we have to talk to everyone? Well, I can give you an example, because I had a meeting. The mayor of Cuntis, whom I know, so far he's at the PSOE, is representing -- along with the mayor of Arnoia -- the thermal municipalities of Galicia. If you... there are your internal struggles, if you consider that mayor is not in your party, because there he is; if not, let him know who meets the Council of Galicia, Mrs. Gallego, before you say these things and make certain accusations and say that we don't talk to anyone for political reasons. And, Mr. Pérez López, you have a problem: the Block doesn't like Xacobeo. It's like the mayor of Vigo. Here are two people who don't like Xacobeo; two people don't, one person and one political party. What happens is that they realize it's a year and a half where everyone is hanging from Xacobeo and it's complicated to say it. So say it, they immediately recover the speech and say that, well, not all Galicia is Xacobeo; of course, man, but we will agree, and I've told him many times, that this year and a half is especially Xacobeo. Because, look, we may be wrong, I admit, we try to do the best we can, but of course we have no absolute truth or much less. But what we do is, and I've already told you in my first intervention, try to listen to those who know, and those who play their money, and those who are day by day and those who care a lot because it goes a long way in the story that things go right or wrong, and what they tell us is that we have to bet this year for Jacob. Obviously, because it's a reason for commitment, because a lot of people know Galicia and then repeat through coming to Jacob, because it makes us all in the media, because it puts us at this moment especially with concepts that are going to look for everyone in the time of travel. And, therefore, if I had been told the tourist sector we forgot about the Xacobeo, as the Block wants us to do, because maybe we should do it, but they tell us all the opposite. And I don't say that you don't have broad knowledge, I don't have them, and that's why I'd rather listen to those who know and who tell us that, without any doubt, as much as you say, and say it many times, that we don't listen to the Block, and they're of all political colors. But what nonsense is that of thinking that Xacobeo right now is not absolutely fundamental! And, therefore, we're going out there, no doubt, no doubt. [[Applause]] You don't think it's good that, well, he told me that the third rescue plan, that they're still waiting to collect it. Well, Mr. Pérez López, a week ago he called, we're fast, I understand that you, seeing councils that you rule, above all that the Socialist Party has ruled, where it's been nine months since the call, without knowing anything about the help, think about who must be in such a hurry. But a week ago she called, and in six months we paid nearly 200 million euros of two plans. So, be sure that, as I told you, of being a plan in which we have to follow sometimes absurd rules of the socialist Government of Madrid, we're going to try to run as fast as we can, for the interest that people have in covering, but don't come saying that they're waiting and that a week ago, when a week has been called this plan. It doesn't look good to you, it doesn't seem good to you from the Jacobean, I told you, it doesn't feel good that we condition the roads, it doesn't feel good that we help hostage establishments to be prepared for those who are in municipalities that cross the Way, it doesn't seem good to them that we arrange the Mountain of Gozo. I'm telling you, but this is good for those who really benefit directly from the fact that tourism works, that it's not just the hosts, but they're the first ones. And he says that the extension of the Xacobeo has come to us very well. Of course; but let's go, if I tell you no, that we are very damaged, because of course... but you should think that this does not only benefit the Galician Union, which has the responsibility of making the Jacobean go well; of course, it benefits everyone. He says, if they don't extend Xacobeo, they're going to catch, I don't know exactly how he said, they're going to catch on potatoes. Well, that was the idea. Well, if Xacobeo lasts 12 months and the first 6 months people can't move from their own county, logically the Xacobeo would be very complicated if it went well. That's why we were so lucky to have another year of Xacobeo, but it's lucky for all of Galicia, that you'll be able to enjoy an opportunity that, if not, we'll be waiting, after 11 years waiting, many more years waiting. So, man, listening to him talking to you seems like he's upset the extension, which when they found out -- and probably that would happen to a lot of people at BNG -- he said, puff, go, man, what luck he had at Galicia. And if someone told them, this is going to be good for a lot of people. Well, no, but this is also good for the Galician Union, and therefore we weren't interested. I'm sure many of you thought so. And that's a mistake, because it's an opportunity we deserved after all that the host sector suffered and that we therefore had to have it, and of course we're very happy that this extension had taken place. Tell me: only national tourists are coming. Well, of course, I told him. Listen, international tourists already know what's going on, if they come from England, they have to keep quarantine, there are lots of places where they still don't know if they can move. Well, go find out. If you think there's more or less international mobility, it's the fault of the Galician board or our responsibility, because you're honestly wrong, write the equation here. we do everything we can, uh, and I'm going to give you an example: 140,000 vaccination certificates issued. Do you know how many green certificates -- they're already in effect -- they were issued and that this meant that people could move from country to country, issued by the Central Government of Spain? 25,000, and so don't tell me that right now, if only national tourists come, we're not doing everything we can, so we're focusing on that market, and that's why we focus on Portuguese tourism, and on tourism in southern France, because it's what right now is the goal of the whole world, so it's competing all over the world, and so Galicia has to be well positioned, taking advantage of exactly that event that you're so upset about, as is Xacobeo. It also tells me about air connectivity. Listen, agree, uh, the Galician board is known for its position, we're saying that what the airports have to do is coordinate rather than subsidizing flights. And it turns out that the BNG says it and we applaud, and many municipalities in which you are in the opposition, or at least they don't participate directly in the Government, and you now come here saying that, of course, there had to be a plan to achieve, I suppose, I understand -- if not, it would be good to see if we're still in agreement on fundamental things -- what we have to do is subsidize flights. So you in many municipalities are saying exactly the opposite; therefore, agree. We are saying the same thing in the councils, in Parliament and in the Council of Galicia, on such an important subject they should have their own criteria, because that is much easier. Just like on the Atlantic axis, you ask yourself what we're doing on the Atlantic axis. Listen, ask Mr. Abalos, so interested, and he'd be fine, they're very close to the socialist seats, watching this conversion that the Atlantic Axis was also important. Well, we already knew that not as much as the Mediterranean corridor, but at least they used to conceal and now they don't conceal anything. Having been completely abandoned, we cannot help but make alliances with autonomous communities of all political colors, at the end of the ministry, which has to be coordinated against the Europeans, has already removed the scourge. The Atlantic axis gives them exactly the same, the important thing is to go to the Mediterranean corridor. You, therefore, who are allies of the Socialist Party in Madrid, who have achieved so much in that document they signed, have forgotten to put any of that. And if they put it, of course, they're not making any sense to them, but of course everything you can do, we're going to support it in the face of that forgetfulness as in so many things. He was also talking about international influence. Listen, look, I'll give you some examples. It is not a coincidence, I suppose you will agree that on top of political or religious beliefs, which is not the case here, that the pope had been in 2022 in Santiago is a good news for Galicia, from the point of view of tourism and influence and positioning. Listen, there was the president of the board a short time ago as an autonomic president. We've just been, you mentioned, invited by the Government of Korea to talk because it was very interested in the Way of Santiago, because I'm an issuer market with a lot of economic capacity that we're very interested in boosting. And we went there, both in Madrid and in Barcelona, because the Government of Korea was particularly interested in it being in Galician Union, where the Xacobeo was explained by the Government of Galicia, not by the Spanish Government that spends so much on promotion, 1.7 million euros on international promotion of the Xacobeo. But where we're going! If only the Galician Union spends almost seven times more on broadcast campaigns. The Russian Government has also invited us to talk about Xacobeo in the Russian Federation; the United States the Federation, which are very powerful there, of Associations of Friends of the Way, wants us to explain what we are doing there to get a safe path because they are very interested in starting to come here as they came before; or even in Germany, they want us to go there explaining what the Safe Way Plan consists of. Listen, we're going to stand as an autonomous community, we're doing what we can in a product and in a position, and something Galicia cares a lot about even though you're not interested in it. I was wondering about the studies. Look, one that's on the website, of course you haven't consulted it, in the Tourist Agency itself, "USC's Study of Pilgrim Return," two-thirds more than a normal tourist is what the return on a pilgrim's profitability in proportion. I invite you, if you want to bring it up; if you don't, I tell you, the Galician Tourism Agency by consulting you, you might have been saving me by saying you don't know where they are. Well, I think they're pretty easy, there's more, but I'm telling you that because that's directly at your disposal. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to do what the tourism sector asks us to do, and we will continue to take advantage of the good we have, and boosted what we would like at this time of tourism beyond all autonomous communities to have, which is to be the end of all the national tourist products declared as the most important national tourist product by the ministry itself, that there did indeed succeed, what happens is that later it fails in development and is much more pendant to stay well with its political colors than to be objectively well with what the Way implies. But we're going to continue working, we've spent a very difficult time, we're trying to help the host sector when I needed it most, and I congratulate the socialist councils and the block that joined the board plan to distribute help, show that the need to help their hosts is above political beliefs. And, well, we're going to take advantage of this year and a half, as much as it bothers the Block, and as much ignorance, and as much self-washed as the Socialist Party has to do to its central government, that the Xacobeo doesn't care about anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u156	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications; Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u157	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I'm no one's friend. I'm no one's friend. My interventions were rigorously done, and, if you said 134 million, it was 234 million that were approved at the Council of Ministers on March 12th; within the 5,000 million that were for the autonomous communities, 234 million were for the Galician community, to use them to rescue small and medium-sized trade, hospitality and tourism in Galicia. I meant those 234 million, but that you seem to be insufficient, and it looks like it's not for them as it's supposed to be. Well, it's the confrontation they want to be in, it doesn't matter what the topic is, it would be good for them to cooperate to get out of this great economic crisis with the central government and thus reinforce for example what we're talking about, tourism; but no, it seems to you that it's better in constant confrontation. Well, that's a way to make politics. I think it's better to do politics. And then, I mean with the concerts, which seems to have only stayed with concerts, I say concerts was an example, but performances in general, acts in general. Do you think that they have no impact on an act that is done, an act that is done doesn't matter, in a council, in a place, that then people don't have an impact on hospitality or commerce? You really don't think things are done, actions that have an impact on the hospitality and commerce? Well, I think so, but they're two ways of seeing things. What you have to talk to everyone is best you are, because I do speak to everyone, I do meet with everyone, with hosts, with all hosts, with everyone, with everyone, with commerce, with travel agencies, yes, also with fair attractions too, with the tourism cluster, with party associations, with orchestras, etc., etc. I gather with all those people, yes, with all those associations. I do, you may not with all of them. Moreover, I would also like to know that Mr. Feijóo's government will invest the 85.6 million budget it has for Jacob, if there is no such programming. It's incredible that they're asking the Government of Spain for 100 million, when we still don't know what you want 85.6 million. Tell them, tell the central government they want 100 million; they present a serious project and say it's going to be done with that money, with 100 million that you've repeatedly claimed from the central government. [[Applause]] Say they spent those 100 million. The only thing we know about the 85.6 million Galician board is that there are 8 million for a gigantic promotional campaign, and then they're announcing concerts. The rest of us don't know what's going on with the budget splits this year that were destined for Xacobeo. If you can tell me in detail, or if you can give me a document, I'd appreciate it. Everything that has to do with Jacob seems to be, I don't know, like a secret, state secret. I really think it's incredible that they're not able to do a programming after half the year of Jacob. And we know, we know there's a pandemic, but it's no excuse. More than a year ago, we had to rethink Xacobeo's programming. You're in constant improvisation, you're in constant improvisation, improvisation and confrontation, because now that there's already a national tourist plan of Xacobeo 2021-2022, with the budget of 121 million, which you've claimed for a whole month, is now insufficient. Okay, so even if they were 1 billion, you'd also say it was insufficient, why, because they're in that constant confrontation instead of being in cooperation. That cooperation and unity that you ask of the rest of the administrations do not carry it out with the Government of Spain. Preach with the example, Mr. Rueda, that cooperation that you so much ask, you preach with the example of the Government of Spain. Look, the tourist sector has a chance with Jacob, yes, it has a chance to try to get out of this current crisis, it's a help to get out of this current crisis. But the Galician Union at the tourist level would have to do more for tourism. Collaborate with the Central Government, let's all move in the same direction to save the Welsh tourism, leave the confrontation. First they claimed a tourist plan of the Xacobeo, they already have; then, the budget for the Xacobeo from the central government, they already have; and now, what, and now, what more do they want? They don't need anything, nothing at all. And I'm done saying that I hope they leave the confrontation. And finally saying that the Government of Spain will continue to support Xacobeo with all the performances that are being carried out, which will be carried out throughout this year. And the honourable Members we are here have to work to make Galicia a great tourist destination for our country. After this pandemic year, I think it's a great opportunity for us all to go in the same direction. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u158	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u159	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, you can repeat it seven times, like today, but for the BNG the Xacobeo is a good tourist brand. Seven times he said it, seven times. Yeah, well, you'll say one thing and I'll say the reality too; but, well, each one... and, apart from that, what we don't share from Jacobbeo, do you know what it is?, the political instrumentalization that specifically makes the Government of Wales and the PP of that good tourist brand. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela words not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And we'll also say it again and we'll keep saying it while they keep making that use of Jacob. Then he also talked about not supporting him. Well, I think I should ask at the back seat of the party that supports the Government of Greece, how many measures concerning the Xacobeo were supported by the BNG, all those who assume something positive for Galicia, that I can assure you. And then, for the rest, I have to say that you're a little like Judini, i.e., it's... or like Peter La Anguilla -- in a more modern term -- it's going very well because as far as airport connectivity, the railway and the Atlantic axis are concerned, you've passed your stitches. I insist, what have you done to improve Galician position from a tourist point of view, as a consolidated tourist destination? I think it's pretty simple to ask but, well, you told me if you want to. He also says we don't talk to the sector. We're talking to the sector. I don't know what the sector tells you, I know what they told us during those first few months since the political course began until they articulate the first rescue plan 8 months after the beginning of the pandemic, what they told us is that the Union had left them thrown away -- and they were literally -- and many of them are still meeting with you. You probably know that, but, well, I understand you're going into the political game; but, of course, what I'm not going to miss is the truth. It's just a lot of things, to see if I get time. As far as the tourist bonus is concerned, of course it has good results and it's normal that they're happy. But you should also ask about this bench -- although perhaps now you can't answer because they're not -- where that idea could be taken from, because it is likely that the Board has copied it from a BNG council that was the first to articulate a bond system to encourage domestic consumption, the Town Council of Carballo. You can also look at it on the city hall's website, where you also have all the information. [[Applause]] And we're not going in anymore... i mean, you also referred to Oviedo's election by the Spanish Government to present the year Xacobeo. The truth is that it was a bit ridiculous, I share it there; that is, I understand from the outset that the presentation should be here, but this is what we have to frame in this childish and irresponsible struggle in which the Central Government and the Galician Union are installed, and in the low political weight of the Greek Government at the state level and even European level. And that is explained in a completely compounded policy of Mr. Feijóo's government, which is more afraid of progressing in self-government than a cat getting wet, it's basically that. That buzzing sound that was heard from Asturias and heard in San Caetano was precisely supposed... it was an intention to dilute -- and that's certainly not shared, logically, and I'm sure I agree with you -- the indisputable importance it has for Galicia the Way of Santiago from a tourist point of view. [[Applause]] But it is that this keeps parallel with the Union's attempt to dilute a product as specific and as potential, as may be the paths of the beacons, on a path of the mastodontic beacons that would travel across the entire Welsh coast and that, of course, will be of such importance to such an important product for the economic reactivation of the region, and in this case of the Coast of Death, for years forgotten by the Government of the United States of Galicia. That's what karma has, they call it karma. [[Laughter]] Another example of this lack of political weight is the suspension of the ferry that connects the Portuguese coast with the Galician coast, I think you probably know the subject as well -- with the Guard, specifically -- which causes walkers to be opting from where they go, and in a majority way to deviate from Valence and to pass to the Portuguese Way, with the prejudice that this also implies to the whole area. We return to it again: little political weight of the German Government. And the one about the statement of the Sacred Ribeira as a World Heritage Site, well, this is... let's see, we start by saying that this statement has the cause in a wrong approach to the candidacy on the part of the Galician Union. It was an absolute mistake by ignorance of who made that proposal and why it wasn't socialized with the people of the place, and by not heeding the multiple allegations that made different specialized groups to whom ICOMOS now gives them reason. ICOMOS, the International Council of Monuments and Sites, associated with UNESCO, is aware of the horrendous absence of an integral and committed heritage management plan, and of the capacity to interact with society by the Galician Union. And the problem lies precisely in understanding the heritage as a simple tourist shop. The protection of heritage requires a differentiated treatment that complements and enrichs the tourism policy of the Government of Galicia, which takes place precisely since the Union. Well, the St. Stephen's Report of Ribas of Sil, the once important Benedictine abbey became a tourist stopper; the former priority of Panton is becoming a wine cellar; or the monastery of St. Paio of Abelenda in a hotel. It's devastating, but you hope to comment on me later too. Not to mention the coronovirus insurance, the health coverage of the stay for tourists coming to Galicia because of the year Xacobeo. This is a policy that costs the Greeks -- and correct me if not -- about 1 million euros. That didn't say it before, but I'd like you to confirm it. And what's next? Will you pay tourists the rations of dust in this case in the 46th in the Franco? Or a room at the Hostal of Catholic Kings? [[Applause]] You know what they're doing? [[Applause]] They're promoting a low cost tourism with little return to the sector, which means they go back to the world. You're sure you've traveled to Italy, to Rome or Milan, I'm very sure, and there you know you have to pay for visiting monuments whose visits also manage the host business itself. Things like these back then, I mean, are they wrong in Italy? Is Italy out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u161	...of the absolutely consolidated international tourist circuits? Isn't that true? Good. I'm done now, President. Things like these show the lack of coherence of the Galician Union in tourism policy. For you, it's much easier to put everything together in the Xacobeo for pure comfort, but also -- as I said earlier -- for political interest. And here the fundamental thing is... and, I insist, you're talking about a page from the board, about tourism, actually talking about economic return; but I'm telling you about the economic return on investments, about investments! They're going to say it's not possible to do a study on that, right? Well, I hope that this study will be done because there too you will really know what that is for the Greeks and for the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u163	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u164	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Verea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u165	Thank you, President. Little by little we compare it, they're already coming out on their own. What did the autonomic administration do? What did he do to Galician Union? What did President Feijóo do? What did the General Administration of the State, the Central Government, President Sánchez for the tourism sector over these months? We have the example of the Galician Union, which has been explained on numerous occasions, both in the Commission and in plenary, these two rescue plans 100 % of the autonomous administration, both in investment and in management. An example of management, never before has an aid processing been so fast, so efficient and so massive -- if I'm allowed -- reaching so many autonomous and so many entrepreneurs in so little time. We already have a third plan, which is funded by state resources, but -- as the vice president has already done -- we hope that they don't mess with the requirements they're demanding. [[Murmurs.]] What did the Central Government do? Well, we talked about it before, not one single direct help over the worst months of the pandemic. They asked for the sector, they rebuked the European institutions to activate this aid scheme, to activate these European aid schemes, they failed to pay attention; and of course, they did not attend this Parliament either. And so -- I insist -- there's very little justification for explaining that lack of direct help over these months. Also a decision by the PSdG, was left together all the Germans, all the autonomouss and all the Greek businessmen. A political decision that we have explained on numerous occasions, they understood that it was more efficient than there were 300 plans for each of the municipalities, for each of the deputies and for the Council of Galicia, and there was nothing left of that plan that would have been an example of efficiency, an example for the whole of Galician society. And, as I explained earlier, also an example of material justice because at the same time all self-employed and all Galician entrepreneurs would get the same help. And let's compare Jacobo. This national plan has just been announced in Oviedo, 60 million euros a year for Spain, when in Galicia we have budgeted for 2021 exclusively for Galicia 85 million euros. We do not speak of the forms of President Sánchez's Government, without warning whether the allegations are accepted or not accepted, without having a prior meeting to analyse the plan. And I think here, at least I've heard that it was announced in Oviedo by a teletype, I'm convinced that many of the PSdG Members who voted 15 days ago that the presentation was in Galicia because at least they had a little pain or self-criticism when they saw that, not even with the unanimity of the Galician Parliament, by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, they took on a political gesture as simple as it would have been to announce the Xacobeo in Galicia, to announce the Xacobeo in Santiago, which is also common sense. And a little more. I'm done with what I said in the previous intervention. This parliamentary group will continue to insist on complaints from the Central Government. We are making such claims in time and in form, and maintaining all institutional respect. On the part of the central government on most occasions or there is no answer or the answers are of almost conflict from school courtyard, such as the presentation outside the autonomous community of Plan Xacobeo. We will continue to insist because we need and we want the Central Government to join in supporting the tourism industry and join the Xacobeo, because Xacobeo will be better if we all participate and cooperate. It's one of the examples of the pandemic and one of the lessons, of course, is the importance of working together to overcome these challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u166	Thank you, Mr Verea. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close to appearance, first vice-president and chairlor, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, she says it's nobody's place. Then the minister won't come. You said here that the minister came, now it turns out that she doesn't bring any information from anyone; so, we're still the same, right? Presented in Oviedo and we know nothing more about it. For it is very significant the treatment of what Mr Verea was talking about now and of what you, however much you try to justify, will not be able to do. Now they tell us that the problem... they didn't give us money -- they already recognized it -- in the Xacobeo National Plan because we don't know what to do with them. And we ask for 100 million and it turns out we don't know what to do with them. Look, of course I didn't have to know, but maybe I could tell him about the ministry for this intervention, the content of our allegations. So look: 60 million for heritage recovery, 12 for road safety, 15 for sheltering, 10 for road management, 14 for a promotion campaign, 116, not 100, Mrs. Gallego. So we knew what else to do with them, the problem is they didn't want to give us and they sent them, as always, those inconcracies that you like so much. No, they don't have any programs. No, what we don't present is birds of things that they won't be able to do after. When we say we're going to do something, we do it because we put in an appointment. I'm worried a lot about you saying you don't know Xacobeo's programming. Hey, it's in the budget, in the attachments, huh! That's particularly worrying. You're the 85 million -- look, it's not a plan... especially because I sincerely thought you knew all that. But in the programming, only Vice-Presidentship, Culture and other advisories, 44 million euros, to tell you what's most important. Plan of road signs, plan of road beautification, plan of improvement of establishments... all of this with provisions of tourist establishments, of all that I talked about in the first intervention. Your Xacobeo program, the second part, since you don't know only one of the 500 acts that are being programmed, 3.3 million. "Jacobeo Cities," 3 million. Cultural programming linked to Xacobeo, 3 million. Circle of concerts in Galicia Town Councils, 1 million. Cycle Perseidas, of what was said here, concert in the Mountain of Joy, 600,000. I support the events, calling out to the sponsors who are asking us to wait until there's a greater realization to see what things can be done, almost 9 million euros. Until this 85th year, Mrs. Gallego. So don't tell me, one thing is that you don't know him and the other thing is that you're not doing things. So really, if you want to join what has to be a collective success in Galicia, welcome you and your group. The background isn't very good, really. Because, look, I've got a little storyteller here, and I appreciate it. Here are consistent -- we have to say -- BNG, because there have been several proposals here, parliamentary initiatives on Xacobeo over the past few months; we have not asked for those 116 that I mentioned earlier to send to the ministry, EUR 30 million for the promotion of the Year of Xacobeo when we created that it was only a year and you abstained, the BNG voted in favour. We asked for the downside of the tourist VE, they went away, he didn't like there was a reduced tourist VE in Galicia. That when we got that we were at the worst of the pandemic. Tax reliefs until December 31, 2023. But what's the problem, if they're giving it to everyone who's asking for it? If that's what the sponsors are asking to involve themselves directly. And you weren't able to vote in favour of it either. Yes, they voted in favour of the Jacobean Tourist Plan being presented in Galicia. They took a lot of notice, as we saw, that's what you were in favor of, eh! Then they talk about influence and not influence. It's very difficult to try to get you to help us when only that was the only vote in favour of you with respect to Jacob's programming that had presented itself, as it was logical and normal, it was very difficult to vote against that. Everyone understands it and we know the result: presented in Oviedo without heeding Galician allegations. We present a road safety plan. Not at all. Here they voted directly against. They're upset that there's road safety in Xacobeo. It must be that they like the pilgrims to go to adventure crossing national roads, which is what we ask, national road arrangements; autonomy is our responsibility and we have just carried out a project, an agreement to the Council of the Union, but the nationals voted against it. And, of course, and it's the last, the subject of thermalism has also been talked about; look, they've been involved in something substitute for the Imserso, because it's neither expected nor expected in the past year nor in this year, and they haven't been able to vote in favour either. So I hope they'll fix all this. Now we're going to make a new initiative, we're going to double the budget for this year of road maintenance so that all the hairdressing that needs to be done daily so that they're in perfect state of the magazine, for any advance in their conservation, in their maintenance, can be immediately solved, 400,000 euros more to get from here at the end of the year on Santiago's road conservation teams. I hope you're in favour of this, I hope you like this plus that we're going to add to the care of the Way so that it's all in perfect condition. So the people we hope are already coming -- 2,000 just this weekend -- can find this in the state that everyone is expecting and in which they would sincerely like all the Greeks. Mr. Pérez López, you say that as much as I insist you won't be convinced that you don't like Jacobabeo. Maybe you like it; to your group, I tell you honestly, I don't know if the word is that you don't like it, but it doesn't seem interesting, it doesn't seem like something you should bet on at least. It doesn't mean everyone in the BNG is like that. I have to recognize him, every time we do something about the Xacobeo, for example in Pontevedra, you know I'm from Pontevedra, because the mayor of the BNG is there because he understands it's a benefit for Pontevedra. But this is not the norm in your party, and so I'd like everyone to do the same, because this is a country project. You who so much like to talk about country projects, this is a real country project, that's what we've got ahead of you. I'd like us to get out of here -- and I'll finish now, Mr. President -- with a message of hope. We spent very hard times, we spent very difficult times, we spent moments when the only help that the host sector had, except for some specific council of the PP and other political colors, were the aids they had of the board of Galicia. State aid arrived... it took them to arrive and arrive with a lot of bureaucratic obstacles about a year and a half later. I have no doubt that you have met with the representatives of the hostel. Man, I'd just miss it! And surely they heard a lot of things, and I took everything they could tell people that was in a very complicated moment, in a moment of perfectly understandable despair, they needed the help of everyone around the world; so to me, I asked them when all that they like so much to tell Mr. Knight that the Board made box with the pandemic. But let's see, but if you owe us... how can you say this? They owe us the state 600 million euros for what you've had to spend on Junta all this time. They changed the funding system to steal from us an important amount that would go directly to whoever needed them, Mrs. Gallego. If what you always tell us... do you know what they told me to tell you about meeting you? When they said yes, all is well, but the Vigo Town Hall doesn't provide direct help, for example, as an example of all the municipalities. The silence by answer, he wasn't able to say even today. These things have to be told, too, since it's so high. And, therefore, let's say what is said at the meetings and meetings, tell all the hosts in general that of course the help of the Galician Union could be more, of course they could still be... and that I have doubts about this, to split up even more quickly, which I think was a lot of speed. But they came in many cases being the only help I had at my disposal, they arrived at the moment when they needed it most and, therefore, we will continue to do it. And now that help is no longer needed, because if you can work, I ask all of you to try to give a message of hope these central summer months, which are fundamental to Galicia, where you can recover much from lost land, where you can do a lot of the work that could not be done because of the pandemic, that we try to do it together. And that, if you don't like what the Galician Union is doing, at least you don't try to destroy it, you don't try where you can influence the silence by answering or even saying that you don't get wet as if you have to wet the other administrations. We think this is good for everyone and now this responsibility is ours. If one day the Greeks decide to touch you, it's a work done that remains for everyone. This is what Galicia understands, and this is what the Galician Union is going to do and, indeed, once again, although I don't have much hope, especially from the Socialist Party, I hope you understand that we all have to be up to the country and to what Galicia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u168	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council on the creation of a women's and health unit dependent on the Health Council There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment:Additional amendment must be added the following points in the resolution of the non-law proposal, which will be drafted with the following contents: "3a.- Recover, update and launch the comprehensive Women's Health Care Plan drawn up and initiated in 2007.3 ter.- Ensure compliance in Galicia, in full and absolutely guaranteed by women, of the Law 2/2010 on voluntary termination of pregnancy, protecting that all women who wish to interrupt their pregnancy can do so in Galicia, with comprehensive and quality care, with the greatest possible and best possible degree of care, in accordance with international protocols and with the highest possible psychological and emotional health care.]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u169	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. BNG today brings here to this House a debate on an initiative that demands the creation of a women's and health unit. A unit from which to promote, coordinate a strategy for the integral care of women. A unit as an intervention tool, planning tool, with actions to be developed in the whole health system, in which all the elements that work in women's health are reflected. And we bring her because we're really convinced that it's necessary to put on lilac glasses to have a gender vision and change the model of health unequal with women, change the perspective with which women's health care is observed to see reality and act to change it. One evidence is that the difference in women's health with respect to men is not reduced to reproductive health or xynecological diseases, but also to diseases with much greater prevalence in women or diseases that, being common, are manifested with totally different signs and symptoms. And we want to focus precisely on these issues, on the issues that condition the map of pathologies, research, clinical eyes and women's health care. Those things that are the cause of errors, inefficiencies, inequity and that, of course, we consider it necessary to know to correct later. And we claimed, as I said, the gender perspective on women's disease and the need for different diagnoses. I wanted to ask them if we ever wondered if a paracetamol and a ibuprofen had the same effect on a woman or a man. I suppose the answer is that normally we don't ask ourselves that question, we just take it. But the reality is that the body of a man and a woman are different, they don't metabolize drugs, and they're also different ways of getting sick, manifesting symptoms or feeling pain. And we also suffer from different pathologies. And despite this reality, we are treated with homogeneous medical protocols, a consequence of a health system based on a fully masculinized model, and the gender gap often makes us believe that diseases are universal and common, and we all suffer in the same way. There is a question of gender in research, in the field of training, in the diagnosis that culminates in a defective therapeutic approach in many cases. And that obviously has consequences on women's health and therefore on our quality of life. The gender affects the different health needs and the different treatments and results. Those things and genres in the investigation. Historically, men participated first exclusively and then mostly in clinical trials. In fact, in the 1970s it was determined that women were forbidden to participate in clinical trials. So the prototype in research is a man, an adult, of reproductive age, and therefore the choice of the pathologies that are most investigated and the ones that are most intended for funding are usually the ones that suffer most from these boys at work age, and the conclusions of course are completely extrapolable also to women with the consequences that they have. There is therefore a scarce or null research into diseases that affect or of greater prevalence in women, such as fibromyalxia, such as endometriosis, such as osteoporosis, and I'm going to talk about exactly two very clear examples such as endometriosis or fibromyalxia. Female one and the other predominantly female. Fibromyalgia affects about 90% of the people diagnosed are women. In both of these pathologies, the average time to get to a diagnosis is between 8 and 10 years. At this time, women have to make a genuine pilgrimage by different specialists until, at the very best, they're diagnosed and in many cases they don't get a diagnosis. And fibromyalxia affects between 3% and 6% of the population and endometriosis affects about 60,000 women. I've said it several times in this Parliament, but today I want to repeat it: I'm convinced that any disease with the level of affect that has endometriosis or fibromyalgia in men would have been the subject of much greater concern and occupation, and not being at the levels of no specific pharmacology, or some really superficial research levels. And I'm not saying that. For example, the endiometry gynaecologist, Dr. Francisco Carmona, in an interview published last month, said the world would stop if men had testicular pain only an hour a month. And I am convinced that it would be so, that the world would stop if men had the pain like that of endometriosis an hour a month [[Applause]] There is no gender in the pharmacological patterns, depending on that male pattern that is investigated, which often leads to higher side effects in women, or that effectiveness is not the same in men as women, because this research is done, or mostly, in male patterns. So much more analgesia prescription for pain in women, without investigating the cause of this pain, is simply given analgesia. There is also evidence that many diseases occur more frequently among women, such as rheumatological diseases or autoimmune diseases, but that doesn't mean more research or more attention. There are other diseases that are manifested differently, the same pathology can present different signs, and therefore respond differently to treatments; and a clear example of the most studied are cardiovascular diseases. They are the main cause of death in women in developed countries and, despite that, only 25% of transplants are performed by women, compared to 75% of men, transplants of issues related to heart disease; 25 women, despite the fact that it is the most important cause of mortality in women, and 75% of those transplants in men. Or fewer anticoagulants are diagnosed in women than in men, however, I insist on suffering more of this disease. The most known symptoms in a acute myocardial infarction, which have always taught us, from acute chest pain and which radiates into the arms, in women in a very important part, do not present themselves that way, are totally different pains. There may be digestive discomfort, which radiates the jaw, but many of these symptoms are not known, which causes the diagnosis to be delayed and therefore the risk and life of women. Not taking these different symptoms into account means that they are not recognized by women who suffer from them and not by many professionals who do not know these differences, and it gives rise to indiagnosis, late or inaccurate diagnoses, and even to the death of many women. There are studies that conclude that women who take cardiovascular drugs have between 2 and 2.5 % more chances of having side effects. I put this example, because it's one of the most studied and one of those evidences of that need to adapt the health system. And there are studies, such as the Perspective Monograph of Gender and Medicine, coordinated by the Professor Maria Teresa Ruíz Cantero, which states that the delay to the greater diagnosis in women that men have identified in 700 diseases; 700 diseases where a diagnosis delay has been diagnosed in women with respect to men. And the opposite is also the case, an overdiagnosis in certain pathologies, especially in mental illnesses. Faced with little specific physical symptoms, such as muscle pain, tiredness, headaches, mental health consultation is more often requested to a woman and diagnostic evidence to a man. More often than not, a woman entering the consultation comes out with prescriptions for analxia or psychopharmaceuticals, 85% of psychopharmaceuticals are administered to women and men leave the consultation with requests for diagnostic evidence to identify where this generalized malaise comes from. I think I have just set a few examples, but there are unfortunately many more examples that show that we are faced with a situation that needs to be done; and we need to act on these issues that I have just said; we need to act on training, the plans of studies do not consider the different forms of sickness of women and men, such as the issues I have just reported, nor the difference in the behaviors of drugs, the differences in health care, research, the use of drugs that cannot be disconnected from the differences in gender inequality, and in medical faculties these issues are not addressed. Therefore, there are differences in common diseases, but they have different symptoms; there are differences in research and approach to diseases prevalent in women; and attention to sexual and reproductive health of women, which is what is understood mostly because of women's health care, often have difficulties. For example, to start with Galicia, there is a lack of midwives, which places Galicia as the least-rate community in the whole Spanish state, which forces many women to move to access this service, a situation that all indicates is going to get worse; as I've already said, the data handling the midwives is that in the next five years they're going to retire more than 70% of the masters in practice, and there's no plan we know for that renewal of these professionals. And care for reproductive sexual health that systematically leaves the needs of girls or minors unattended after their childbearing age; it focuses almost exclusively on the fertile and reproductive age of women. Therefore, in view of these data I have just said, the logic would be that health care would act in the light of these differences and act to change them. It is necessary to do so, it was not until the sixties where the feminist movement began to put this question on the table, but 50 years later it is still very difficult to move from the role to reality changes that go in that direction to modify the health model, to review health policies for gender equity endowment, to put in place a strategy for comprehensive health care for women, to make health differences visible, and to eliminate inequalities in benefits, as tools, as I said earlier, of intervention, planning and action to develop in the whole of the health system. And that's the initiative presented today by the BNG, broad but what it's about to create this unit where at least these issues are addressed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u171	...that I have just pointed out, in research, in the gender approach, in training, in the approach and in the modification of primary care for this integral care of women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u173	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Health is an androcentric world, this is evidence. Since our group has been here for a few years warning of some situations that we have moved to this Parliament, in addition to other forums in which we have participated; there is an initiative of our 2017 group in which this was discussed in this plenary and which part of this principle, of course it is that it has changed and improved slightly over time, but still of course not equalized, if the term is used. Some of the data I exposed here Mrs. Prado shows this reality, but there are some others that are relevant. The half-waiting time in any of the variants in waiting time for the first surgery consultation, for diagnostic evidence in Galicia is greater in women than in men, even for the same kind of evidence. One case is anecdotal, two is a surprise, three is a trend, all is evidence. And this is not ultimately a fault of anyone on the live, but of course no one exempts any part of it. Let me have another thought, in trying to complement it, which has to do with the concept that the whole health system itself tends to be definitely androcentric. Now, and by making round numbers easier, about two-thirds of medical students are women. It's not usually enough, if we evaluate the last few years, it's not enough that 30% of the top scores of the MIR exams are women, and this isn't really explicable, because in Nursing, where there's a lot more women's presence, the number of top scores of better results still exceeds the percentage of women students. Do you mean women and men are the default ones to form one or another specialty? No, it means that there obviously still exists the most important condition, which is the social business, which conditions women and men for some kind of function. By correcting itself over time, yes, but there is still a social affair towards different types of professions or orientations, even if it is made easier in a certain way, probably sometimes unconscious, but in many others consciously and evaluating, men or women's work in health care is facilitated to position themselves or to achieve some results. Look, if not, the leadership, and this is not an attack, they don't understand it as an attack because it's anecdotal, but we're in Galicia and we're talking about Galicia, I'm sure it's a repeat in other communities. But look, the management teams, look at the board management team, look at the health areas, look at the management spaces, look at the heads of hospital services, and we'll evaluate the vastly prevalent presence of men with respect to women. The leadership of the health model remains essentially men, and therefore it is more difficult to take into account not only a perspective of gender equity, which would be obvious and which we do not have because still unconsciously, there are still trends for more if it is conscious, but it proves that the system is still deeply androccentric. We believe that this initiative, like others, I say, that we have presented, the past legislation I have the memory that the Marea Group also presented on the same line, we actually believe that this should go this way to defend or to focus this problem. Also contributing to putting this focus of attention will contribute to this debate not being lost. In that sense, we will support the BNG initiative, regardless of whether or not the amendments are accepted, which we believe to be on some side, but in any case whether or not they are accepted, and I will now discuss the amendments. In fact, it has to do with management, with the system, with the set of how we focus and with that social role, that social issue also contributes to the presence or interpretation in terms of women, let me say so, I know that it's not exactly the expression, the affections and the diseases in this plan. Mrs Prado also spoke of some cases, endometriosis is a very clear case of how it does not exist in general terms in the debate, even at great length, and because of that by associations of collectives that defend it, in terms of political debates, to a far lesser extent there were other diseases with clear prevalence in women, the case of fibromyalxia that has been expressed, or the tendency of the system to prescribe analgesics to women and to diagnose evidence to assess cases more deeply in the case of men. That it exists, and that it is a reality, and that we cannot deny because it exists. And it's a question that basically has its origin the social plan, probably also because anthropologically we've seen inheriting the concept that women have to take care of care and therefore it's assumed that they go through stages where they must suffer more, because they have to be more prepared and because that's the role they play. And that milonga that we've built for hundreds of years has continued to interpret undeniably that this reality has to be like this when it's a profound mistake. And, therefore, we must all be aware, and welcome, of all the initiatives that go in this direction. Besides, from our group, we're presenting a double amendment, which has two points to add, if BNG considers them, that have to do with some political actions that we think contribute to this, too, and that go to two essential issues. First of all, to the general concept of how to cope with health by understanding this gender perspective. There was a Government that had this perspective in Galicia, a Government that there in 2007 developed the so-called Comprehensive Women's Health Plan, and that this plan also contained the possibilities of assessing, renewing itself, incorporating new contributions, which evidently had a long-term perspective. This was in 2007 and in 2009 the commander arrived and ordered to stop, and since that he forgot. What do we think? Retrieve that idea. It's not about using it as a weapon, like an elevation of deep criticism, but about basically suggesting that this reality exists, I think the data is obvious, and we're all aware that it exists and that we should all try to contribute to improvement; and therefore that plan had its focus on the care plan, but also from a perspective of how we focus on the system. We think we need to get that plan back, evaluate it, update it -- as we say in our amendment -- and bring it back to our current reality so we know that that plan would have been that at that time they weren't detected and that now yes and we can improve. Secondly -- and it has to do with a situation of more worrying cases -- there is a symbolic element for us -- neither is appreciation accurate -- of what has to do with health from a women's point of view, which is the fulfilment of care issues that are not made in Galicia. And that we focus, in addition to all those that proposed the proposal of the initiative, on the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy. The Act of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy in Galicia is not complied with, the right is not guaranteed. And Junta is squeezing, limiting, hindering and torpedoing the right that many women or that some women decide to exercise and have recognized in a law. And Junta doesn't because she doesn't like it basically, there's no other explanation. The Act of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy is a law that, obviously -- although it seems like returning to the Sesame Quarter and it must be repeated -- it does not oblige anyone at all, but it allows to enable the right for those people who do because of the circumstances they want -- that nobody has to get into that -- have that right and want to exercise it. Galicia is not allowed. And women in Galicia continue to have difficulty in exercising this right because through their leadership, Sergas, through surgically aimed policies torpedo this issue, have posed all the necessary obstacles to not being met. And there have been serious, very serious cases of women who have been delayed in the care needs of Sergas, who have been delayed in an area where precisely time does not help to solve the situation, who have been dynamiteed in their rights. And this is not possible, and we believe that this amendment, by going to an element that adds to the initiative, could also help to focus on this issue; that we, of course, have also raised on many occasions as a central issue. A key right which, from our point of view, represents in a very symbolic way what women need in a health system. And it's not just that taking into account a generic way that we understand that women and men, being equal in some respects, are different in others and we have to work in equity. The voluntary interruption of pregnancy is a right for women and that in Galicia it is not fulfilled, and it is very serious to say so, but in Galicia the rights of all people are not guaranteed. And this, in addition, is jeopardizing the health of many women, as has already happened here in Galicia on many occasions, cases that have been known, and others that out of the wish of people have not been known but that those who are in the debate of the system and we know some information we know and that were clearly serious. So we try to contribute by adding to this debate, we celebrate its presentation and we are in favour of the initiative. From our point of view, there is some inaccuracy -- let me say -- and it's been a long time since clinical trials with a minimum of quality -- certainly there are not, but with a minimum of quality -- they equate the number of women and men, as they do with age issues to be able to validate, because today science has these advances. But, in any case, all that's proposed here is welcome to keep focusing and many of these things need to be reviewed because they don't get understood...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u175	...and, therefore, we think it's positive. Take our support, regardless of -- as we say -- that the amendment is accepted. And we think it's very important to keep in mind that this, even if it does not seem, is happening; and we want to be part of the solution and that's why we support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, after listening to some things, you get a little surprised, you don't know what health you're talking about. To say that health professionals discriminate against women and prescribe evidence and give them drugs based on whether they are women or men; or that you say that half-time wait is greater in women, as if you had that animation against us. I, frankly, have lived in this autonomous community and have been cared for in public health during my life I have never had any such experience. And I don't think the women we're here have ever happened to us the things you describe. It's amazing! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, the initiative that calls for the creation of a women's and health unit, because we think this unit is not justified because many of the actions you are contemplating are already being developed in the health centers and in the services of hospitals in the autonomous community. And it seems to us that if you can improve women's health, you need to make a lot of progress in many diseases, but the way you think it's more positive is by improving knowledge and healthcare for these kinds of diseases that affect women above all. We believe that we should include the general gender perspective, and -- as Mrs. Prado said -- put on the lilac lenses; but put on the lilac lenses throughout the healthcare field, in the specialties that have a greater prevalence in women than -- of course, we agree with you -- not only are those linked to the reproductive organs, but there are many others, such as, for example, the myocardial infarction that has a greater incidence in our gender, and also many common diseases that can affect us in a different way. That's why we believe that the advancement of knowledge should be based on specialization and that it's the specialists themselves in each of the pathologies that should take into account that gender approach and perform specific attention. And, of course, we don't forget that it's necessary to introduce the perspective of gender as well as care. We are, however, pleased by this initiative in which they recognize it that the People's Party proposed in the February Health Commission this year to regulate the functioning of breast units to serve as a reference to the creation of new multidisciplinary units of other pathologies; for example, starting with those related to pelvic soil. And so, precisely this way, in the attention of women's specific health problems is where we have to put the accent and work on that line. Women's diseases, such as endometriosis, which we have often talked about in the Health Committee, have recently been unanimously approved in this Parliament the creation of specific consultations in all areas of health and the expansion of the hours of attention of these consultations. The sanitary areas of Vigo, Ourense, Ferrol, Santiago and La Coruña, which have specific consultations; by the way, I as ouransá, that of Ourense works very well. It has also been approved to carry out training and updating campaigns of health personnel that are in contact with patients: midwives, family doctors, nursing, xynecology, anesthesiology. And as my partner, Mrs. Friend, in defending the initiative, following the lines set out in the Sergas Strategy, is working to give integral attention to women's health, including actions and measures directed to the knowledge, detection and follow-up of endometriosis. So we, from the Popular Group, think that this is the way to go in all the diseases and processes that affect women in a special way. We believe it is very important to carry out continuing training activities for the health care staff that women care for throughout their lives, because these training activities serve both to sensitize professionals about the existence of these women's health problems and to foster knowledge of the risk factors that can determine their appearance. As well as the most frequent clinical manifestations for their diagnosis and early treatment. From the General Directorate of Health Care of the board includes courses and workshops that address different health problems and that affect women differently or more frequently. This year, for example, activities were carried out on endometriosis, on female pelvic soil dysfunction workshops in the field of primary care; and mental health and gender days; days on violence towards women, such as detection and care patterns; days on legislation and procedure on voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Mr. Torrado, in Galicia if you comply with the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy. I'm not going to deny that, unfortunately, there was some mistake, but we're human and we can all be wrong in our profession. But what you can't say is that, because there was a mistake, in Galicia, there's no compliance with the law on the EVV, the German Government complies with the law; I don't know any other governments, the Greek Government complies with the laws. [[Applause]] And there are also activities to promote and care for sexual and reproductive health, developed -- as we said -- by multidisciplinary teams: matronas, medical family specialists, specialists in xynecology. But also with the intervention of other specialties -- radiology, anesthesia, endocrine, hematology or social work -- precisely in order to provide comprehensive and integral attention to the sexual and reproductive health of women. And prevention care activities, is a subject that has been addressed on several occasions; care, development and implementation of the care process of preconceptional consultation; courses that are given precisely health care during puerperium through very important consultations of primary care midwives, with postnatal maternal education and pelvic soil recovery. And these courses on the theme of the vault have had to be done telematically, but as soon as the situation becomes normal, of course, the presence activity will be increasing. And I would like to highlight the Conecta 72 Program, a program that facilitates contact between the primary care nurse and the woman after the hospital discharge. And this program is very important in the case of women who suffer from risk or social exclusion, because they feel more accompanied once they're discharged from hospital. And xinecological health care continues to produce in primary care. Cervix cancer, breast cancer, and attention to gynecological pathology in general. And in the primary care plan 2019-2021, in relation to women's health care, other actions are collected, for example, the designation of reference professionals in hospital care, improvements in Ianus. And in the field of obstetrics, for example, specific modules were designed in electronic clinical history needed to develop the care activity. And, of course, since the German Government is also apostatizing the development of the roles of the masters, which we consider to be very important. And in the Primary Care Plan, a representative of these participates in the Primary Care Technical Council, and precisely approves the creation of the service portfolio, the skills map, and also -- which Mrs Prado said is not taking into account -- if you are studying the short-term situation resulting from multiple retirements. And the board of directors, of course, is committed to increasing these squares; there have been an increase of 7 madret squares in 2020 and 13 are going to increase in 2021. And also to say that you're working -- as I said -- since 2021 with the procedure of seizure and prevention in health with regard to gender violence. We find this program very important because what it does is to establish normalized guidelines that guide the active search of women who attend health centres, and it may be that they suffer abuse and violence; and it seems to us that it is a way to look after women's health as well. So we think that if you're working, that you have to keep working, that you have to keep improving, that you have to continue to implement more interdisciplinary consultations and give greater knowledge and seek that specialization in the faculty. And that reform of primary care will also result in an improvement in health care and in the desire to create those units in pathologies that fundamentally affect women and which is an important improvement in their treatment, both in relation to the time spent on care and in the care plan and, of course, in the improvement of those diagnoses that are sometimes true that they are late. That's the line we think we should keep moving forward and that's why we can't support his initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u179	Thank you, President. I really regret the position you have just defended here, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. I know it's late hours and that can make us a little upset, can't it? And I have to tell you... including myself, including myself, including myself... [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Yes, because unfortunately the struggle and the advancement of women's rights has always had to propose the constant denial that there was no problem, and you persist in that women have no problem. [[Murmurs.]] Look at one thing, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, so I find it late. Because that you had no problem with gender-based violence doesn't mean that there's no gender-based violence. [[Murmurs.]] That you didn't have, no, that you had no problem with health care, doesn't mean thousands of women if you have that problem with health care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Since you don't suffer from endometriosis, it's not good that women who suffer from endometriosis have to wait 8 or 10 years to have a diagnosis, because since you don't have it there is no problem. Yes, there is the problem even if you don't suffer it; it exists, and it affects it about 60,000 women, exists and affects it about 60,000 women. With which you can't say: as it didn't happen to me, it doesn't exist. Because in addition to what I just said here, I could bring reports, lots of reports; that is, from administrations to scientific units and all kinds of things that support what today brings about the Galician Nationalist Block, we're not inventing it. It's a reality and denying reality the only thing it does is that it doesn't act on it and that reality doesn't change. And it seems you're comfortable that women have a weak approach even in health care. Look, you put here the examples of fantastic things that are going on. There's attention to the puerperium; tell me my companion Mary Albert told her that she's been waiting for 9 months for that puerpery consultation and still today they haven't called it, 9 months, here's an example. But we have many women outside who can corroborate that situation. And the bosses are very important. We have the lowest rates in the whole state. The bosses themselves say they're going to retire 70% in five years; you say they're going to join 13. Great, I think the solution is totally guaranteed. I'm sorry, of course, that's why I'm so sorry because macho prejudices are reaching all areas of life and unfortunately medical and health as well, and denying it will certainly not solve the problem. That's why we don't have to be afraid, at the BNG we're not afraid to say with force that there are these Machist actions, just as there are them in society, we're not afraid to name them and say them with force because not to name them, not to address or deny the problems doesn't make them disappear. They may rot, but they don't disappear, so you have to have the courage to put on the table the problems that exist to act on them and change them. And that's why we demand this unit to do a cross-sectional work, a coordination, that plans, that coordinates, that drives an integral strategy in women's health. We are going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Party because we in our initiative put these issues at least very extensive and I cannot address them all, but these are the minimums, they are the minimums. Because really the situation, and we could split up for a long time, is really worrying. And these gender issues in health care are recognized by reports, studies, organisms, by the World Health Organization, which determines that for decades research and clinical trials were almost exclusively male, and that has consequences on health care because it's not investigated, research results in a determined male model and that results in a determined health care. And that's what we want to change. And although there's been a while, there's been projects on gender and health, it's got legalized, and we can talk about research law, health law, equality laws, science laws, but these laws don't give away the role of reality. Those rights that are in law don't give away reality. And in formation, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Why don't you go to college? It is possible to deny that in college study plans there is no gender approach, which is not analyzed, the different consequences of drugs in men and women are not studied, the different ways of sicknessing men and women. It's not on the curriculum. To deny that reality is to hide your head under the wing like an ostrich and they're not doing any favor to women. And that's why I ask you to correct them, just as they don't take all the initiative we've brought, but they don't deny it. Tell them they're going to vote against it because they don't want to accept it, but they don't deny a reality that -- I insist -- what makes a lot of women, a lot of Galicians aren't getting the health care they need on equal terms. And that reality, as much as you're opposed to it, can't deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to the next initiative, to the next non-law proposal in this case. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María González Albert and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in connection with the recruitment of air services for the defence of forest fires This motion for a non-law was presented with a self-amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Socialists. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment: Amendment to Amendment to Amendment to Amendment to Amendment to Amendment No 2 of the motion must be replaced by the following: "2. May the necessary steps be taken to ensure that all heli-transport brigades operating within SPIF are operationally owned to ensure the highest quality of the service, but also the working conditions of the workers."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of María González Albert, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Replacement amendment The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to:1. To recruit a single campaign (2021) of an integral service of light helicopter and heliported brigade equivalent to that which remained desert by means of the recruitment procedure (exp. 6/2021) with identification number S1511001H.2. Stop carrying out regular contracts by emergency procedure.3. Proceed to the progressive termination of external air service contracts for the Lume Prevention and Defense Service by replacing them with public air and heliported brigades from the Galician Union to ensure not only greater service agility, but also the working conditions of workers."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to ask you a few questions. What do you understand about being a good professional? I think in general terms we can agree that a good professional is the one who has the virtues, the skills that drive him to excellence in his work. And what qualities come to our head when we think of a person who is valid in his work? For we think of qualities as being responsible, having initiative, having curiosity, being committed to work, having values, being creative, executive, having an early capacity, these and other virtues. And I'll ask them a third question. What opinion as a professional would deserve them for example -- I don't know -- a mechanic that you go to your workshop and you don't know that periodically every x kilometers, each given number of kilometers you need to change the oil of your vehicle and that's why it spoils your engine? Or a builder who is in charge of making his house available to him and doesn't know that before he lights up the walls he has to do the basic services installations: of light, gas, water and, therefore, that he leaves his house without service forever? Or -- no one wants it -- from a councillor or from a Middle Rural Counsellor who year after year forgets that for the fight against forest fires there is a need for helicopters and therefore leaves without covering that basic part of the service, or at least basic for Galician Union? Well they'd probably think they're incompetent and look for a good professional to do that job. And that's where we are. [[Applause]] The Rural Media Council defines the service of helicopters within the organizational structure of this complex system, which is the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, as an urgent and necessary means for the normal development of their own functions. But, despite considering it as a necessary means, they insist on keeping this part of the service outside the organizational structure of Galician Union itself. So in this way technical personnel, agents, monitors, broadcasters, ground brigades, brigades, drivers of vehicles are workers or officers of the Rural Environment Council itself, while personnel and the material means necessary for the helicopter brigades are formed externally. And I want to make a mention of this staff that is part of the heliported brigades. Are they second-rate workers for the Rural Council? Why should the fact of working in a heliported and not in a ground brigade have to carry worse working conditions and even more precarious work than the other legs of the service? Or why, said otherwise, is this part of the service privatized? And this is the new question, why? Why this privatization? And I think you have a very clear answer. Because here in this part of the service there's business, there's business and therefore it's very good privatizing it. But it's just that in the management of helicopters by the PP board it rains on wet. Hunta has his own helicopters, who declared obsolete, to private companies and then to redeploy them. The Union contracts like in this case through the basic emergency of services, not only fires, we can talk about maritime rescue, for example, without going further; and they systematically delay contracts to the beginning of high-risk seasons -- right now we are at high risk -- in order to be able to extend contracts in some cases without making new tenders. And in the most bloody case, in the worst case, in 2012, they even extended a contract with the company that was then Inaer with no contractual relationship, which led to the trial of that director general of forest planning for prevarication, and not only to him but to the entire summit of the council. But, coming back to the case that we are dealing with today, they called on May 17, Letter Day, which was held in this country for a service contract by the emergency procedure of one -- I'm going to quote -- "full service of light helicopter and heliported brigade for defence against forest fires during the years 2021, 2022 and 2023." This contract reduced by an emergency route to 15 days that companies had to submit tenders. And we're going down because it's two years in a contract of similar characteristics the deadline was 22 days; in previous years similar contracts were also executed in 30 days; and I wonder how far they're going to leave us from now on. If we see 48 hours, 24 hours, we'll have to pay attention to this. And, as I pointed out earlier, we have previous experiences in which the Board of Auditors also censures this limitation on the possibility of competition between companies. But in any case, considering that it is quite likely that what the Board of Auditors has to tell them is of interest to them between little and nothing, for just as if they had to care about the ineptitude of a councillor who waited in mid-May to bid a contract of means that are part of the -- reiter -- necessary, necessary collected as such in the Pladiga, for the normal development of this year's fire-fighting campaign. And, further beyond that, could it be a trienniality an emergency? Or it's rather a structural service that needs to be treated as such and that must therefore be provided by the highest fire fighting authorities in this country. I think this is the basis of the problem, don't I? And I want to stop a little in this report of what I'm talking about in 2014 of the Board of Auditors, of what has been said many times in this Chamber in previous legislations, which is a tremendously critical document, made public, as I say, at the end of 2014, in which Contas analyzed the process of managing the main helicopter contracts of the Union. At that time they studied 9 contracts, the total amount of 9 was 63.8 million, of which 7 for a total of 62 million were to stop Inaer, the current Babcock. In all of them, in these 9 contracts, the supervisor found irregularities of different kinds. And it was that report of Accounts, as I said earlier, which allowed the prevarication investigation against the Rural Council, which, although it did not end by considering the existence of a criminal offence, did also make it clear to the courts that there was illegality in the recruitment. With all these backgroundes and already knowing by car 2018 that this recruitment system is illegal, and now here you can't claim ignorance, making deaf ears also to all the cautions of the Board of Auditors, and changing the main responsibility for fire policy that up to now was what it had borne with all the guilt, we wonder who is now responsible. From the new CEO? Because it's no use changing faces if they don't change policies. And I tell them more, only to look at the previous recruitment processes of similar years, of similar services, to know that this contract was going to be deserted; only to see the budgets that were handled in those tenders and see the budgetary allocation of this one to make clear, almost without fear of failing, that the issues will end up in a direct adjudication alluding to the necessity. And I'm asking you one more thing, is that going to be so? Are we going to see a direct adjudication in the next few days? Or in these matters, as in many others, Pladiga is a document that serves for the gallery, a press release to the media, but which, after that, does not have an effective portrayal in the fire service of this country. Because here are only two possible answers to the questions I asked at the beginning of my intervention. Either the defense of the fires is directed by bad professionals who can't anticipate that in summer helicopters are needed, or they're good professionals who do their job correctly, and so by doing this chapuza they're doing what's expected of them, and they're defending other interests that are certainly not the generals. What's the answer? Are they good, bad professionals? Are they bad public servants or are they good private company agents? Me, I'm afraid this last. At the BNG, we understand that this service, the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, has to be a single command, we have said so many times; that the dispersal of the prevention and extinction program between Together, municipal brigades, state media, army, on the one hand, and between the public and private media, on the other hand, that interferes with the proper functioning and coordination of the service, we have discussed it many times. We believe that it is not to be accepted that the heli-transported brigades are the ugly little parrot within the system, within the means arranged by the Galician board, and that the staff of these brigades have to have the rights of the same service workers, the same working conditions, which are not to throw rockets, and we have talked often also about the precariousness of the staff of the service, but of course those of the heli-transportees carry their hands on this matter. And we also think that Pladiga is the document that has to guide the planning of fire prevention and defense campaigns. This plague that exists is not what BNG would do. Now, if Junta says, for example, in this case, that there must be 19 air vehicles between light helicopters, means and coordination and cargo planes in front of the 17 of the previous Pladigo, of the previous year, is it necessary to have them, is it not? And just as in the water points, that in the cassettes, that in the research brigades, that in many other aspects of the Pladiga that appear on the reflected paper and that then do not exist in reality. That is where the motions for resolutions we are bringing forward today. We want to guarantee the integrity of the service in this as in other aspects, but not at the expense of misusing the public. And the three proposals that we have come up with are: that we hire the necessary means to cover this campaign, this one in which we are in; that we abandon this emergency system as a common form of air procurement in general and other structural services in particular...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u183	... -- and ended -- and that progressively assumes itself the management of this fundamental part of the Forest Fire Prevention and Extinction Service. There's nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u184	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. Well, talking about helicopters is talking about fires, forest fires, and this is one of the main concerns for the Greek society about public security. We all have in our memory images of thousands of hectares continuously burned down that repeat year by year, and are increasingly at the greatest risk to people and their possessions. And we all remember the fires that occurred in October 2017, when a very adverse weather combination and with a lot of heat and wind in short intervals of time provoked one of the greatest waves of fires that are remembered. Therefore, we Greeks live with the worrying certainty that our territory can be regularly fed by fires. The problem of the fires in Galicia is the absolute abandonment of the rural world that continues to forget the People's Party and the Greek Government after ruling the Union most of its existence. The data speaks for themselves. We have only 6% of the Spanish territory in Galicia, about 30% of all fires and large fires in Spain. And that's why the fourth part of the area that burned last year in Spain burned in the province of Ourense, which represents 1.4% of the total area of the state. It's common that even recurrent fires occur in Galicia's most valuable ecosystems, and just as Junta always does not do the tasks, with the undominated duties, the basic principle of the forest fire prevention system, which the Union always forgets, prevention. Where are the preventive actions made today, and why at the time of extinction in the full period of guards do we find ourselves with the air media bases and empty surveillance tapes? Remember the proposal, the PNC adopted by Commission 7th, in the light of a proposal from this parliamentary group, of the opening of the Xurés fire base which today in the full campaign is still closed. As is stated in the Pladiga, national parks are the most affected areas by fires, burned more than 14,000 hectares, and the most affected park is that of the Jurés. Forget it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the German Government, of the forecast. We don't have as basic information as how many acres were sprayed, how many water points were made, how many for air media, and how many for land media. Transparency doesn't go with you. Prevention is necessary, it is more than vital to have the forest clues arranged for the extraordinary workers of the service to face them. And you have to have something so basic and less humbling that the word helicopter, points of cargo of motorcycles in good state. Not to mention today, for lack of time, the wage conditions mentioned by the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego, wages worthy both in the brigades of the municipalities and the workers of the heliported brigades. We asked you in committee what schedule of preventive measures has been put in place by the Rural Council today and the Director General did not answer. And speaking of the lack of foresight, we found ourselves with this Nationalist Block PNL on the recruitment of a firefighting helicopter, qualified as urgent and published as such in the Official Journal of the European Union, as set out in the explanatory statement of the initiative. 15 days from the time it was expected to be high-risk, which the fire guards have already begun on June 26th, to talk about recruiting helicopters in the Galician Union is to talk about a very rough subject, and they have headlines like these. January 25, 2018: "The judge sees the management of the helicopters against fire illegal, but he files the case because there was no whimsical"; June 7, 2019: "The Board finds that fires are unpredictable to accelerate the recruitment of helicopters with the summer on top"; May 29, 2021: "The Board considers it urgent another year to hire helicopters at the doors of summer"; and the last few days ago: "The Board does not receive offers to operate the helicopter against fires that are missing and that it considers urgent at the doors of summer." They knew that, that it was going to be deserted, obviously they already knew. The Board of Auditors criticised the usual procedure of the Board of Auditors years ago to delay the call for tenders to renew helicopter contracts, which concludes that, in order to ensure the provision of services, if the previous ones are extended, the time limits for tenders for new contracts are reduced, thus restricting competition, or resorting to negotiated procedures at the fingertips, after deserting the precipitated tenders, which further attacks free competition between undertakings. This body has come to ask the Galician Union for a greater effort in the search for greater competition between companies. But the Rural Council, and the new general director of defence of the mountain in particular, ignores the Council of Auditors' warning, something usual in the course of the People's Party's governments, if they do not turn their eyes to the House of Ourense, summoning the contest in the middle of May for the helicopter they need, which reduces, as the spokesperson for the BNG, to 15 days the deadline for the submission of bids to a contract that will last until 2023, for nothing more and nothing less than 1 million euros, and which can be extended to 1.7 million. Well, I deserved this enormous offer a little more foresight, didn't I? Incredible that they consider urgent what in turn is qualified by the council itself as a necessary means for the normal development of their own functions. That way of acting led the then Chief Justice of the Monte Defense, Thomas Fernández Couto, to the trial, charged with prevarication, who finally considered his illegal act, even if it was not a crime. The improvisation in hiring helicopters, both in the Rural Media Council and in the Maritime or Health Rescue Council, led to the continuation of major contracts with the same company with extensions and sometimes without contracts, as in 2012. To talk about these contracts is also to talk about the workers' and workers' brigades that accompany them, the so-called heli-transport fires operational brigades, which are hired outside the public service, as they have also just denounced the unions, specifically UGT, understanding that these brigades are a fundamental resource for the speed of deployment to any part of the territory, their effectiveness in extinction, thanks to the performance of the binomy brigade-helicopter, and their highly specialized staff, and that is why they should be part of the rural council's own means. This external staff is part of very precarious working conditions, both in material and in training, and in wages. They don't have any kind of job stability, nor right of subrogation when they change businesses, and it's an experience they're not computed to access the Galician board recruitment lists. Experience in extinction work is fundamental, and so it has been demonstrated year after year, so that these staff can't generate rights, it constantly renews itself, which goes against their own operational and expert recommendations. The same is true of the work PPE, which is of much lower quality than they can find in the forest fire prevention service operation, as we have already said. So, training and experience are the basic cornerstones of a staff almost every time it's going to be faced with very complicated and increasingly complicated situations, because Junta is unable to process contracts so that this situation is compatible. On the other hand, indicate that, according to the Mountain Law, MITECO has the following means for this summer campaign of 2021: 1 reinforcement brigade in the BRIF de Laza, from June 17 to October 31, which has 2 helicopters with a load capacity of 1,200 litres; 2 cargo planes on earth with a load capacity of 2,400 litres, located in Xinzo de Limia, from June 21 to September 30; and 3 amphibious aircraft of between 5,500 and 6,000 litres of cargo capacity, property of MITECO located in Lavacolla, A Coruña. And a plane from 1 July to 31 October, another one from 16 August to 31 October, and another one from 1 September to 15 October. This means an increase in one more aircraft than the two scheduled for the year 2020. They are units that, once placed in the fire, will be and will have important information about it, being on many occasions located near the advanced command post or exercising as such. We tabled a amendment to point 2, which only affects the hiring of helicopters, due to the technical and purchasing and maintenance difficulties they have, but obviously at the other points we fully agree with the exhibition made by the spokesperson, the spokesperson of the BNG. Nothing else in this intervention. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Armada Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This non-legislative proposal to this plenary, responding to the first two points you put forward in your own amendment, I refer of course to the Galego Nationalist Block, to point out that the reason why the recruitment of a helicopter with brigade began in April of this year was that during 2020 the base of helicopters -- as you well know -- of the Jurés, in the Town Hall of Mills, was closed due to the fact that the landowner community, after completing the assignment period of the land it had made in 1997 the Rural Media Council, did not allow this base to be used for the deployment of the forest fire prevention and defence device. Having resumed negotiations by the Rural Council with the community of landowners of the two lands, a principle was reached at the end of the first quarter of 2021, with which this base already counts with it for this fire campaign, as well as with another major base, which is the base of Portomarin. On 30 April 2021, the Rural Council initiated a procurement dossier for the integral service of light helicopters and heli-transport brigade for defence against forest fires during the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 by means of the open procedure subject to harmonised regulation and urgent processing, in accordance with Articles 156 to 58 of Law 9/2017, of 8 November, of public sector contracts, so that the guidelines of the European Parliament of the Council 2014/23 and 2014/24 of the European Union, of 26 February 2014, with an estimated value of EUR 1,797.151, are incorporated into the Spanish legal system. It's all very dark. On 11 May 2021, the procurement file was approved and the procedure for adjudicating the contract opened; on 12 May 2021, the notice of invitation to tender was issued for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union; and on 14 May 2021, the decision of the notice of appeal was issued on the profile of the contractor of the contracting body. So far we'll be fine. The deadline for the submission of tenders ended on 31 May 2021; after access through the Galician Board's electronic bidding system to information on the registration of tenders of the procurement procedure, it was found that no tenderers' proposals were submitted for this contract. On June 4, 2021, the Technical Secretary General of the Rural Council resolves to declare desert for the open procedure subject to harmonised regulation and with urgency of the integral service of the light helicopter and heli-transport brigade intended for defence against forest fires during the years 21, 22 and 23 when no offer is made. So... yes, yes, a completely dark procedure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The bid prices -- and I'm going to give them -- with regard to this procurement file, meant that the light-type helicopter, the daily bid price was €2,900; and the heli-transported light-type brigade was €1,006 -- are left with these figures --. The service intended to be covered by this contract was the availability of a light-type helicopter with brigade for 276 days distributed in three years of 92 days each. And the bid prices in this contract were the same as those employed last year, and they are currently running. Wow, the previous year it looks like there's been a job! It should be noted that, as the most recent administrative history of this file with the same type of aircraft and brigades, on 3 July 2020, the contract for the full service of helicopters and brigades intended to defend forest fires during 2020, 2021 and 2022, in lot 1, which prayed as "light-type helicopters with brigade, Proposal 20/19", though the processing of this file began as an ordinary and anticipated processing of expenditure on 11 November 2019. For this contract, which began in November 2019, the prices of adjudication and bidding were exactly the same, with which this unfortunately declaration of the last desert contract assumes that instead of 19 air vehicles contracted by the Galician Union during the high-risk period of fires in 2021 will be 18:12 extinction helicopters, 2 coordination helicopters and 4 cargo aircraft on land, so it will be 1 more than last year. Also during the high-risk period, there will be -- as the Socialist Party spokesperson well said -- with a more hydroplane from the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Reto, than in 2020, because logically that communication of the allocation of the aircraft that goes to the airport of Lavacola by the ministry was after the start of the processing of the procurement file that remained desert. To bid again for this campaign, as you ask, this recruitment file assumed that the helicopter and the brigade would not start their service at least until the end of the high-risk period. If we can tell you that the Rural Middle Council has 13 helicopter bases, including the base of the Jurés, and the number of brigade-extinguishing helicopters to count during the high-risk period of 2021 is 12. In addition, he's hired 2 coordinate helicopters, so the 13 bases with which he counts the Rural Environmental Council will be operational and equipped with some of these aircraft. So I think it's quite clear that the U.S. recruitment processes are scrupulously following the law and promoting free competition. So any company can compete for any of these contracts I've been appointing. With regard to the third point that you were pointing out, it is really noted that you are a nationalist, very nationalist, but an independent nationalist. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Because at this third point you're promoting the Welsh air force, that is, Air Galicia, as it has to be! And I'm going to explain why, why, look, right now can you explain to me who advised you to tell them what the cost of the 14 aircraft is? [[Laughter]] And then, above all, I'd like to know what that would be like to create new categories of specific personnel, because this obviously takes pilots, mechanical specialists, maintenance personnel, fuel distribution equipment, hangar construction... and, of course, we have to carry out some repair and maintenance tasks. [[Applause]] Well, if you ever get to rule and bid out, please don't drop Kamov; that Kamov, you know what it is, it's a helicopter that they're using in the Fire Extinction Service, it's Ukrainian. [[Applause]] And you know what? The only ones who can fly that plane are either Ukrainians or Russians, with whom the empty RPT has to expand to Russia, so look what they're going to do. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, I'd also like to know... of course, these ships provide their service for four or five months, what do we do for the rest of the months? Did we use the Falcon guy? I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] Look, they can -- if they want -- ask him, because they're doing so well with their Catalan independent colleagues, because they know enough about this matter, you know? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it probably contains them when they bought 2 OBK Eurocopter model helicopters at their moment. And you know what they did? Well, look, one fell, they didn't repatriate him to the service anymore, and the second was taken out directly because there were costs, maintenances that were impermissible, and therefore they took out the public concession. They didn't think it was a very good business. And, honestly, I think in this matter, I don't think we're going to make a deal. I also thought that the Socialist Party would modify this last paragraph that was alluding to this Welsh air force, but of course I was wrong. Because I was thinking about it and I was just asking them two questions: Are BRIFs public? No, I think they belong to Tragsa, a company that hires the state. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Did they ask the Central Government what it would look like to pass them to the public? I think I already know the answer: no. And in the communities where you rule, do you have similar examples or have the idea of creating something similar to what you propose? I don't think so either. So, look, I'm on this initiative, I'm quite clear that we have to be serious in managing public services, especially in defending against forest fires. And, speaking of air resources, projects like the Interlumes Project -- which I think they know quite well -- because these are projects that will result in a lot of success in the quality of the service, because you know that it is not only the construction of an international air base, but also that it has other targets, such as the exchange of good practices, training activities, computer applications, advanced command station support, specialized media supply, opening and improving firewalls, and building and improving motorcycle parks, monitoring towers and installing infrared cameras. This is a way of working. Nationalizing doesn't seem to go with the fires. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Armada. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. González Albert has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u189	I, Mr. Navy, listen to you is to come up to me but in a real way that... yours is to support her and in the amendment, which was something my mother used to say a lot when I was a girl. [[Applause]] My mother was not a Greek, and she said a lot about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said several barbarities, but the first thing you said -- and I don't want to let it run -- because you talked about the base of Jurés, which last year couldn't be opened. It unburdened the community of the mountains of Pergairos and we had discussions in Commission 7 in reference to what was the attitude of the Conseilaria do Medio Rurale with this mountain community. And, in any case, in July they were still in negotiations with this mountainous community; therefore, this was a base that appeared reflected in the 2020 Pladict. It's not that they have now raised two bases suddenly because they can now count on the Jurés, but this base was reflected and, like many other things on the Pladiga, it appeared on the paper but then it didn't exist in reality. And besides you, of course, you contradict yourself because you're talking about an ordinary contract that was made last year and that was run last year, which was signed in July when the process started in November of the previous year -- if I didn't take the data wrong -- and yet this year they seemed very easy to start a contract in April, a recruitment process in April to arrive at the summer campaign. It's obvious they weren't coming. And besides he didn't answer me, there's going to be a direct recruitment of this medium that the Union considered necessary on the Pladiga? There won't be. Did I get it? Won't there be? So, wasn't it necessary? Was it necessary? [[Laughter]] Wasn't it? It was necessary, but there won't be. [[Applause]] All right, it wasn't clear if you'd understood correctly what you had told me. [[Applause]] He spoke of Air Galicia. Air Galicia was a great program that broadcasts Galician TV in this country, which today would be unthinkable if it could be broadcast. And, in any case, Air Galicia opened it to President Fraga, who after the Prestige catastrophe bought 2 helicopters, who spent a lot of money from all and all the Greeks on helicopters, who, in addition, as announced to Junta at that time, were specially designed for our backs, which are a back with very determined characteristics, and who, after buying them and spending public money, wronged us to this same company that I spoke of earlier, Babcock, and then rented them for an absolutely unabated price. [[Applause]] So, if you have to talk about Air Galicia, talk to your... Well, now you can't talk, but, of course, President Fraga opened it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And here's the question that you're interested in Pladiga. The Pladiga, a document that is made for the media, which is also a cut-off of previous years. We have talked about bases that have been closed for years that continue to appear, and that are still showing houses that have been closed for 7 years and are at the Pladiga 2020-2021. Water collection points for helicopters that don't exist, that haven't been executed, and yet. And with the helicopters because it happens exactly the same thing. And I'm going to give you an example, because at the end of what it's about, is that the board is working very well, or the Rural Middle Council works very well as a big window for the media, but then, at the time of reality, by working specifically in the forest fire prevention and defense system, what prevails is improvisation. And last week we had two big fires in this country, one in the Courel -- very close to my land -- and another in Salvaterra. The one in Salvaterra, for example, according to the council itself, burned 352 hectares. Do you know what happened in Salvaterra? The box in the area was closed as that fire developed; and at night, when they were burning 352 acres, there was only one bomb in operation. And then this is the problem we face in this country year after year, year after year, and I see no change in their attitude. That's why I was at first telling her that of holding her and not amending her. What can't be the Galician Union or the Rural Middle Council is the business instrument between the People's Party and the different companies, in this case the helicopters. And the one at PP with Babcock is of course a novel that, like the best movies romances, has its heights too, in this case it's true it's taller than bass. [[Applause]] But in the few basses that have this relationship, we saw, for example, in 2018, when they excluded this company from a contract to prioritize Habock then, and the joke cost us the Greeks and the Greeks 33,000 euros in interest of delay for late payments of invoices, which up to that moment the company had not claimed because it seemed to him that the business was well-assembled. You've chosen the Pladiga for an air defence model against the fires, but then you don't run that air defence model that you prioritize. And there are heli-transport brigades that are from the board, there are three. Why can't this model have an impact on the total service? We don't have to create new categories of work, they already exist, there are three brigades...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u191	-- And I'm done --.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u192	With regard to the amendment of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u193	Yes, with regard to the amendment of the Socialist Party, I've already talked to them, we're not going to admit it because we understand that helicopters also have to be of the Union. And from the issue of Interlumes, which I don't want you to stay, let's talk to you about how much of the Interlumes project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u195	...because there's a lot of cloth to cut into that question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-22-DSPG041.u198	At the end of today's agenda, we'll suspend the session until tomorrow at 10 a.m.
