ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with agenda item 6, questions for the oral response of the President of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the forecasts of the Galician Council in connection with the strengthening of the Greek public services as a guarantee in the face of the health, economic and social crisis of the covid We begin with the question of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. "Galice is in line in Spain for spending on social services by inhabitants". Galicia, Spain's queue in social services for inhabitants. This is a matter of concern to us because Galicia is in line with the development of the social services of the system that exists in Spain. We are the thirteenth autonomous community of seventeen, on 13th of 17 developing in social services, because the expenditure per annual resident in social services in Galicia is below the average of Spain: 367 in Galicia, 406 in Spain. Because also the percentage of social spending on current spending in Spain is lower here in Galicia, because here in Galicia the staffing of professionals in the basic structures of social services is less than what exists in Spain, there is one professional in social services for every 2,500 people, while in Spain there is 1 per 1,800. Because also the rate of coverage of dependent care in Galicia is below the coverage rate in Spain. Because with last year's data, the population in poverty that had access to minimum incomes for inclusion in Galicia was smaller than in Spain. Because, if we're talking about public funding residences for older people, in Galicia there's only 1.2 squares per 100 people, while in Spain there's more than twice as much. Because in Galicia there is less coverage of the home aid service, which receives 3.3 out of 100 people over 65 years of age in Galicia, while in Spain the percentage is 5%; and it is also true that with greater time intensity for those who receive it because it is paid by the municipalities. Because also, when we talk about telecare in social services, coverage in Spain is 5 times higher than in Galicia. And here there are fewer residential squares for people with disabilities, there are fewer daily and occupational squares for people with disabilities, there are fewer shelters for women victims of gender violence, there are more than 2,000 children on the waiting list to get parking in the stores. And that's why in the face of the greatest crisis, the deepest crisis in economic and social affairs, we need to strengthen public services. Because with the small mouth the People's Party, on the right, weakens public services in Galicia, health services, social services, and they don't have a bet to build a protective shield that protects people. And in the year that extraordinary funds come to the autonomous community of Greece, we have to urge you, Mr President, to build a protective shield and correct the twelve years of weakening public services. They don't deserve the Greeks and the Greeks to be with the worst levels compared with other autonomous communities in the Spanish ensemble. And you live in a fictional reality, drawing random data to try to show that there is a situation of coverage shown in the last report of the directives and managers of professional services that you left this week put on the table. And the same thing that they say about Galicia is on Spain's queue in social services is the same thing that thousands of families in Galicia know that they have to wait for many weeks so that they can get an assessment to access minimum incomes, that they have to wait to get a storey square, that they don't have a public residence for older, that they don't have a day center. And that lack of public services is what makes us the People's Party, and it's time to rectify, it's time to recognize the weakening that the data and reality of the country know to build a shield of social protection. We can't trust a right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u4	...which weakens public services, health services and social services; on the right does not build the greatest protective shield to deal with the greatest crisis. And we can't trust it because we believe it's essential to have a high-quality public service bet, to hire staff to give the Greeks and Greeks the coverage they need. Mr President, you have the right hand to improve public services in Galicia, health services, social services. To rectify its evasive effects, its weaknesses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u6	To build a way out of this crisis where public services are the back seat to give rights to the Greeks and to the Greeks, because when we talk about public services, we talk about the rights that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve to be citizens of a country of the first. And we don't want to be a second-class community that's in number thirteen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u8	...of the seventeen autonomous communities of Galicia and Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u9	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u10	...in speaking of public services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u12	Public services, public services, public services. Corrigendum, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u13	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, with all due respect, if this question could be entitled to you, at least your intervention, it would be exactly what you said: to draw data at random. That's what you came to do in this control session. Mr. Knight, if for some reason the governments of which I am a part were characterized by their commitment to public services in times of difficulty, even at times when the Spanish ransom was discussed and at times of the pandemic. Since we arrived in 2009, we not only shield public services, but we have twice as much social spending as the bipartite had, which you chaired. Since we arrived in the Government, we haven't been able to shield public services, the goal is to improve public services, expand public services and have better public services than the average of Spain. Hear to speak, Mr. Knight -- I repeat, with all due respect -- of the children's schools...; when we arrived at the Government there were 12,000 squares, today there are 25,000, twice. We are the only autonomous community in Spain that has freeness in childhood schools for the second and next children, the only autonomous community in Spain. I don't know any autonomous socialist community that compromises it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, 70,000 welcome cards to all the children who were born since we arrived at the Government of Galician Union. Eighty percent of the families received this card from 100 euros a month for one year, from two or three depending on the income and the number of children. Your Honor, say and not compute the home help squares within these data at random that you reflect, will it be because we are Spain's autonomous community with more home help squares? Is it because we have 24,000 shelters attended by people, women and men who visit these people in their homes? Is it because we multiplied by 10 the number of shelters we had when we got to the government? Go back to talking about residences and do again the torturer comparison of the number of public residences with the number of... what do you mean by the public, Your Honor? We have the same public residences as we inherited from the bipartisan. What's the matter, that he had a little bit of a bipartite? 13,000 new residential squares funded by public funds, that's, Your Honor, the data, twice as much as when we get to the Government. We're talking about double or triple in terms of social services, which is why I'm surprised at your planning. [[Applause]] During the pandemic -- what you were referring to -- we are the second autonomous community with lower mortality in Spain's residences, 60% less; and yet we are one of the oldest communities in the country. There are 50,000 Galicians who are charging the card during the pandemic; a card for what?, a basic card, Your Honor, to cover the evals of the central government. A basic card with funds from the autonomous community of up to 900 euros to cover the problems of families in order to reach the end of the month. But, Your Honor, let's keep working, we'll end this year with 500 squares of children's houses in the countryside -- when we get to the Government there were zero -- and we'll end this year with 400 squares of houses of the largest -- when we get to the Government there were zero --. But, Your Honor, we are the first autonomous community that has approved a law of demographic impulse, I hope it does not go through it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u16	And also, Your Honor, we are an autonomous community that knows perfectly well that the bureaucratic burdens of dependency management need to be reduced. And today, the Government of the Union, which meets immediately after this control session, will make the largest bureaucratic decrease in the country to reduce the amount of time it takes to cover the Dependency Act. By the way, Your Honor, you are still unfunded by the Law of Dependency, the most social government in Spain is the most insolidary government with the greatest. 76% of the unit continues to fund the autonomous community. Gentlemen, you'll understand that you've come to teach lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u17	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u18	...of social policies, it's just a random question. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u19	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u20	Mr. Feijóo, that the People's Party would like to tell us about the Dependency Act when your president, Mr. Rajoy, said that this was wet paper, which could not be fulfilled or applied, implies that you have no shame in talking about the state of well-being and social policy because commitment fails, because the data are obvious. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, you put on medals for home help coverage, and the data are obvious: in Galicia 3 out of 100 people over 65 have a home help service, the average of Spain is 5 out of 100; 3 out of Galicia, 5 in the middle of Spain. Where are your medals? He has empathy, he has sensitivity, he gets along with the families who can't get those help and these needs, and he's based on the pedestal on the knee, which is not the best companion to build a socially protected exit. But if social services, Mr. Feijóo, show their lack of commitment to public services, the same is true of health services, which are also essential public services. A number of headlines are evident, in these days we are seeing it with great clarity: "Back to presence revives the latent crisis of primary care", "Rengagement of patients in emergencies to go to the family doctor", "The presence of consultations in health centres will not return to the prepandemic level". Or even today in a newspaper: "The rejection of the MIRs to Sergas contracts leads to a difficult summer in primary care." This is the reality of a health system that needs strengthening, which is necessary in this legislation to convene 5,000 new stable squares to cover retirements and to generate a strengthening of a health system that has to care for the entire population of Greece and be strengthened also to meet a process of vaccination that is so complex. And the truth is, today the health system is weakened by such a serious situation by Covid. The councillor himself recognized it, which it takes two more years so that the health situation might be as it was before Covid's crisis, which was no longer well, because today we have to wait 18 more days on a waiting list to enter the surgery, a total of 72 days; and today we have to wait 8 more days to be attended by specialist, 49 days to take care, as effects of the pandemic and so you cannot continue on the same line of action. I'm amazed when I read yesterday in the papers that the Health Council wants to turn Sergas into a call center, where an administrative decides whether a patient is entitled to a presence care or that patient is going to be taken over by telephone. It's a retreat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u22	...it's a process of destruction of what we've built. And they have to rectify because public health is much more than a call center, it needs to strengthen primary care, where we know there were a lot of problems before the pandemic and now there are more. Because we need to strengthen the emergencies, where the pressure is greater because citizens when they want to go to the health center have to wait sometimes until 15 days to get an appointment with their health care provider. Because it is necessary, Mr. Feijóo, to strengthen the whole vaccination process that comes to stay. Because the Government of Spain and the European Union have marked a strategy that is successful and that we are also applying in Galicia correctly and in what you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u24	...they're putting all they can on their side, but more needs to be done because we need to strengthen a public health system that's going to have to be vaccinating for many quarters, for many years the population of Greece. And they can't rest on health professionals who have given their best during that pandemic without being reinforced with more population working in that health care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u25	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u26	And that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u28	...it's time to have the welfare meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u29	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u30	It's time to leave the board behind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u31	Thank you. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mr. Knight. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Close this question. President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u32	All Spaniards know perfectly well that the Government of Spain does not comply with the Law of Dependency. To talk about the situation in which they left Spain at the time of President Rajoy's government should be a bit of a shame. Forgery of the public accounts and about to ask for the ransom, and do you come here to talk about the situation in which they left Spain? Your Honor, speaking of the MIRs now again manipulating and saying that if people leave Sergas; no, the family MIRs have the right to elect an emergency service, a home care service or primary care. The problem of the MIR, Your Honor, and that, if you do speak of the presence, you do do the darkness and the spitting of the system, which the Ministry of Health does not allow the MIR to ask for a plaza in the presence. What can you think of all the people who approved the MIR in Spain who can't go to the Ministry of Health to elect their place at the moment, and you come here saying that there is little presence in primary care activity? It's a shame, Your Honor, impropriety of an MIR system, which is the most serious training system in Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] But you keep going. That report on what you're talking about about the managers, omits that in that report it is concrete that the most efficient autonomous community in social services and spending on social service is Galicia. Why do you skip that paragraph? Look, Mr. Knight, let's leave our opinions and go to the data. The budget we assumed in social policies was EUR 570 million, the budget we have today is around EUR 1 billion. That is, more than 66% of the increase when the budget of the Board since 2009 has now risen by 9.7%. If the total budget is 9.7% and the social services budget is 66%, does that seem to be not a commitment to social services? Don't you? Well, it's your opinion as natural. A 66% increase is not committed to anything. Look, day centers, increase 242%; from 983 squares to 3,367. Alzeimer centers, from 230 to 494, 111%. Residences, from 5,500 squares to 8,000, 43%. Good librency, 800 to 7,065, we multiplied by 8. Disability square, from 4,300 to 5,300, we multiplied by a 23% increase. Children's schools, I told you, 12,000 to 25,000, 96% increase. And you come here to consider a series of considerations, but with all due respect, Mr. Caballero, look, the most resourceful budgets in the history of social policies are those approved by this Government in the midst of crisis, both in the crisis that left the Socialist Party and during the pandemic. Budgeting with more resources, almost twice as much social services is what this Government is approving. And the squares move between a 25% increase and a double or triple increase. But, Mr. Knight, I understand that in order to provide social services, we must have resources, public resources. And the first thing we have to believe is efficiency in the use of public services and resources, and the second, the defense of Galicia's interests to get those public resources. Let the current leader of the Socialist Party come here to talk about public resources when we have just won a sentence against his government because he owes us more than 200 million euros of the VAT collected in Galicia and not paid, and that you come here to pose for all this time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u34	...that all we wanted was to confront, that what we did was a theater, and now it turns out that the Supreme Court tells the Greeks: you're right, the socialist government wanted to keep 200 million euros for the Greek public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u35	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u36	...and we have to go to the courts to give us what the socialists take from us. Mr. Knight, with all due respect, lessons to strengthen public services in Galicia, none. If we didn't keep that demand... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u38	...of justice to the Supreme Court, today we would be here with 200 million euros less for public services. That's why the Socialist Party comes to teach us about public services when they want to decrease -- for not using other words -- 200 million of our resources is just a joke. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u39	Thank you. Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, asked about the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding primary attention to the impact of the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, primary care was already in the chassis after ten years of cuts, budget cuts because, despite the Covid tsunami, we still have 45 million euros less in primary care than twelve years ago. Staff cuts because this government, its government, has become normal not to cover rents, vacations or retirements. A primary care that's drowned by lack of means, staff, and now we see how you use the pandemic to give your point. If you don't correct immediately, you will be, Mr Feijóo, the primary care liquidator. Before his arrival this was the jewel of the health system and we see how twelve years later he's placed on the edge of the collapse. And the evidence is unquestionable. For the first time in history there are waiting lists of up to two weeks to be able to go to your head doctor; for the first time in history there is no guarantee of present attention in the centers; and for the first time in history, professionals are belittled by their Government, who accuses them of not wanting to care for people, and it is absolutely indecent this defamation after all they have done in this pandemic, indecent. [[Applause]] This is the situation today, and you're the most responsible. Mr. Feijó, it's a primary attention with waiting lists that's a real nonsense and a contradiction. If a person wakes up today with 40 fevers, what will he do? Well, he'll pick up the phone and try to go to his head doctor. If the answer you get is a telephone answering machine or a week of waiting, what alternative do you give? Either go to the emergency room or go to a private doctor if you can pay for it. And this probably explains a lot why they do what they do with the public health system in this country. [[Applause]] And in the BNG we say it loud and clear, we have to rescue primary care, and we make concrete proposals, feasible in order to achieve better health for the Greeks and the Greeks. The first one, a shock plan for primary care of 200 million euros, and you don't have any excuses anymore, uses those 200 million euros from the return of VVI to target it to primary care. Secondly, we have to provide staff health centres in all categories and with a clear objective, which is to ensure the presence of 100% of the people who need it. Thirdly, primary care agencies with decision-making capacity and budgeting. Fourth, an ambitious goal for this legislation, which we allocate 25% of the health budget to primary care, and not 15% as at the moment, which is absolutely insufficient. And finally, call the 6,000 vacant squares in Sergas. As you see, Mr. Feijóo, there are solutions, all that is required is political will to be able to improve and rescue primary care. And you have to decide which side you're on: whether you want to rescue primary care or whether you want to clear it. At the BNG we are very clear that we are going to defend with nails and teeth a historical conquest, because we are talking about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's why I ask you today, Mr. Feijóo, why he's using this pandemic to liquidate primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u42	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón, once again I regret having to deny the truth of your statements. To say that we are deteriorating and dismantling public health is simply a lie. And to say that we take advantage of the pandemic for the deterioration of public health is a disorder that we cannot admit. That is why such a short question with so many lies is inappropriate for a Member of the House, and at the very least it is inappropriate for the honourable Member to represent the second majority group in this House. Mrs. Pontón, I am very sorry for the despicableness that you are continuously and constantly implementing in health care. They don't care what else! He says we've dedicated 200 million to the government's IVE of what you are part of, but if we haven't charged them, Mrs. Pontón, you and your partner, the Socialist Party have not yet paid them. And to say that we haven't improved public health for the last ten years, just allow me two considerations. The number of people who work in public health today in front of the moment we're here is over 5,000 more people, 5,000 more sanitaries. In primary care, for example in nursing, 13% more; in primary physicians all we can hire, all of us, and I say everyone we can hire, all of us. To say here that we need an additional public job offer to cover Sergas squares when you and the Socialist Group prevent all vacant squares from being covered is another inappropriate pharisaism of a House Member. Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, to say here that we don't bet on the country's public health is just to take the country's hair. In the middle of the pandemic the greatest stress test to which the Galician Health Service underwent in 40 years of history was this and its result qualified by the Greeks, Your Honor. That the Greeks qualify the result of the Galego Health Service during the pandemic. Primary care in which more than 78,000 people were treated by Covid through the TELEA system. Do you know what you said about TELEA? Decapitalization of public health personnel to capitalize on it through technology. It's better if we don't listen to him, Mrs. Pontón. And in relation to primary care, we have a primary care plan. In May 2019 we didn't know the pandemic, Your Honor, and that plan is being implemented. Family doctors, public job offer: everyone who left us, 143. We don't have any more capacity because we're prevented by the central government. It offers to form primary care doctors in Galicia, an increase of 7.4%, all that left us, 491 more squares. Mental health units, double investment in primary care infrastructure. Of course we want to regain the presence. You say you have to recover it 100% and your head union says it's already a nonsense to recover 60%. If there's one thing they tell the Greeks in every place, and the Greeks realize it, Your Honor. Look, you know perfectly well that the only possibility we have is to increase the number of doctors. And we raised two questions. First, an extraordinary MIR call for primary care. There are 6,000 people who didn't get MIR square in the last call, let's make a special call to the National Health System for primary care doctors. [[Applause]] Second proposal, Your Honor, we believe the category of emergency personnel so that family doctors don't have to cover the emergency room and there may be a specific emergency room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u44	Those are the two structural proposals, and that's why, Your Honor, those are the proposals that, if you think, we should continue. Look, you've been here for many years, you and your group, trying to wave the flag of public services, but that flag has been given to us by the Greeks to manage it all these years. And that's why I'm very surprised that the public health situation in the country was not part of the agreement between the Socialist Party and the BNG, the investment agreement. Oh, laugh. She laughs at public care and health. Why is it not part of the agreement between the BNG and the Socialist Party on investment? I'd like you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u46	...Mrs. Pontón. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u48	Mr. Feijóo, do you know what's inappropriate? Improper is to take advantage of a pandemic to give the pint to the primary care system. Impropio is to have been dismantled for 12 years and with a policy of harassment and falling from public services. And it's inappropriate to see your government accusing the medical staff, who gave so much in this pandemic, of not wanting to care for patients. It's an indignity, that, Mr. Feijóo, it's impropriety of a government that's attacking the primary care of this country. [[Applause]] And, look, listen to what professionals have been saying these last few weeks: "It's unacceptable that the lack of professionals is used to blame them, when all these problems come from mismanagement and misappropriation of needs. It's not acceptable for public opinion to be transferred to the feeling that the nursing delay is the fault of primary care workers. The citizenry must tell the truth instead of blaming the worker." Ana Pontón doesn't say, say a primary care doctor. The medical act is supported in the medical-patient relationship. We all want to see our patients in our consultations, be close to them, listen to them, attend to them. Finally, help them recover their health. If the Administration wants to go back to the previous situation, it's very easy. Who talks to you, Mr. Feijóo, it's not Ana Pontón, it's a family doctor. The problem is there are waiting lists in primary care. The causes are denounced again and again: lack of personnel, lack of forecast for generational replacements. We're tired of working on unending marathon days with a lack of recognition and even respect. We demand dignity and respect, we demand means, we demand correction and an apology. That's what the primary care staff are saying about their health policy. They shouldn't go so well when we have the staff this way. And it's all right, Mr. Feijóo, that twelve years later you'll remember that there's a need for doctors and doctors in this country, twelve years in government and remind you now that we have a problem of generational relief. But instead of throwing balloons out, it would be good if you did your homework, because today we have a problem and that 60% of the MIRs that end this year refuse their primary care contracts because of the precariousness that you have in Sergas; retain the staff you work for. It's been twelve years, twelve years, thirty years of the People's Party, and we haven't even regulated the tutor figure in primary care and he knows there's not enough tutors, and so what he's doing again is a smoke curtain. [[Applause]] And, look, we have memory, and we all remember what happened in this country in primary care. We remember the staff, the chiefs of primary care in Vigo who resigned in block for their health policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u50	We remember "Virin doesn't close." We remember their cuts in public health, we remember privatisations. Of course we have memory, Mr. Feijóo. And what we ask you to do is to rectify it, stop liquidating primary care, because what's at stake is the most important thing we have: health. Rectify, Mr. Feijóo, and not be the liquidator of this country's primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u52	Of course we have memory, Mrs. Pontón. Let me read to you exactly what the Journal of Sessions said on 9 September 2009, I read: "If for anything you highlighted -- referring to me -- it's also about dismantling public services. In the health care you frozen investment in infrastructure, paralysed the application of the primary care plan, with an excuse for rationality, eliminating pedestrians, diverting operations to private clinics. This responds to an ideological plan that you have to dismantle public services." Who said this? Mr. Aymerich. You were already a Member, Your Honor. Exactly 9 September 2009, at the five months of taking possession. At five months of taking possession, I'm accused of the same twelve years later, but is this nationalist catechism not going to vary a coma, Mrs. Pontón? [[Laughter]] You really don't even have the ability to ask questions differently than your superiors asked you twelve years ago, the same question, the same ideological objective, the same attempt to say that this party and this government don't defend public services, when we've been defending public services for twelve years, and the Greeks voting for us to continue defending public services. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, change your catechism, update your catechism, at least. Update catechism. Nationalism should update a little and think that TELEA, the care system, is a reasonable project, the best in Spain, and so it was accredited during this time of pandemic. You talk about numbers, and of course you take the numbers you want, but why don't you take the budget number? When we got to the government, there were 3.700 million sanitation, today there are 4.587. This is 800 million plus and 21% more in health care, and the budget of the Union grew by 9. This is the truth, Your Honor. That's why it's worth ruling, that's why it's worth being a public servant from the Government. When we arrived there were 5,000 people working less on health than now. This is reality, Your Honor. Why are you hiding this reality? Why do you hide that we're doing more hospitals than ever and more health centers than ever, and more technology than ever? Why are you hiding? Does it bother you that the Galician Health Service is one of the best health services in the country? We have just implemented an administrative career, one of Spain's first governments. That means an increase of 3% of staff salaries, you know perfectly well that we are the first autonomous community in community nursing specialist for primary care. We're implementing videoconsultation and reduction of bureaucracy. We have an agreement with scientific societies, with trade unions, with professional schools, with those responsible for primary care. We have a plan designed in May, came the pandemic, interrupted the plan and we have to take it back. And, of course, we have to increase the presence. And of course we have to keep working with the increase in presence. But you know perfectly well that we have a problem, a fundamental bottle collar, neither accept new MIR squares, nor allow us to call all the squares. So why is this health service accused, which is the most committed health service that Galicia has had in its history? Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, it is inappropriate to say that we are using the pandemic to dismantle public health. It's an affair that Galicia doesn't deserve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u54	And the question I was asking you why didn't you talk about health in that investment agreement with the Socialist Party? You know why? Because this nationalism, which is with the same catechism that I was twelve years ago, is more interested in self-determination than health, is more interested in the country's independence than in the country's public health. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not here to say that primary care is at its best in the National Health System, of course not. We don't have MIR doctors, they don't let us cover all the markets in public job offers. Why don't you want to work for the country's health?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u56	Why does your catechism prevent you from working for the country's public health with the majority parliamentary group elected by the country? There you are, Mrs. Pontón. But I am more interested in public health than in Galicia's self-determination. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be taken with regard to the intention of the Central Government to establish beaches on state-owned highways There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and there is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group as well. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through her spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the House's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law amendment:Amendment of modificationIn the resolution part of the initiative, where she says: "... her round opposition to the intention of the Central Government to establish fees on the highways."]] Therefore, for the defence of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u58	Good morning. Let's see if we're taking the relief easy. Well, this is an initiative that we can call a recurrence, a recurrence because it is the central government's commitment to adopt a measure that is clearly antisocial and discriminatory, a measure that has already been announced, the way of a balloon probe on several occasions, and that it now returns in an already more official manner as an aggression, as a provocation by the central government, specifically the ministry of Mr Abalos, the Ministry of Transport and Urban Agenda, which is the announcement of the payment for the use of highways that are now free, more than 14,000 kilometres from the entire state network. He said that on previous occasions, it was announced as a balloon probe, the difference is now that it is in an official document sent by the Central Government to Brussels within the Recovery and Resilience Plan with the proposal that it should enter into force in 2024. Anyway, on this subject, you don't have the exclusive progressive government in history, there's a full coincidence with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u59	The mask. Same time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u60	Okay, okay. There -- I already felt a little uncomfortable like that. Thank you, President -- full coincidence with the People's Party, and already Mr. Rajoy's People's Party announced this measure, at least on two occasions, in 2012 and 2018; Mrs. Pastor first, Mr. Íñigo de la Serna later. We have to remember that in 2012 the Ineco, a state government consulting company, did a Study for the implementation of an open toll system on the State High Capacity Road Network, comparative analysis and proposal for payment by distance travelled; and then in 2018, again, an analysis of financing systems for optimal management of the state road network, which became a request by the Government Rajoy urgent in February to implement tariffs applied to light and heavy vehicles, with forecast of entry into force in 2021. I mean, if Mr. Fexóo was still ruling, we'd be on top right now in 2021 the threat of these beaches on the highways. And he was forecasting, in addition, income from the state of 2,743 million euros. Too bad, too bad the People's Party then shut up and said nothing. Because, of course, the attacks on the opposition that they now give you when the Socialist Party governs, but the pity is that they didn't have these attacks, this vehemence and this bluntness when they rule their own in Madrid. That's how things are, and the difference is clear, the BNG says the same thing here and in Madrid, the government who governs, the same thing as here in Madrid. You have to know what is the origin of this proposal, where it comes from, and there are two main reasons why this proposal is explained. First of all, the pressure of the large manufacturers grouped into SEOPAN, which, following the brutal fall in revenues in public procurement, proposed this system of payouts to have more income, because at the bottom of this is a system of privatization of the entire public road network. And secondly, the enormous hole in the public accounts of the State and the Ministry of Development basically by the rescue of the ruined Madrid radials, which cost us more than 3,000 million euros, and also by the liberalisation of the fees, by the redemption of the concessions and the freeness of the fees approved in the last few years that are benefiting the people living on the Mediterranean axis fundamentally, because these free fares were approved in motorways that communicate Barcelona with Alacante, or now Barcelona with the French border, or also nearby Zaragoza with Barcelona, while we continue paying for the fees. Well, this is going to have an estimated cost in 2022 of 478 million. And what we want to make clear in this debate, in this intervention, is the firm, robust rejection of the BNG by establishing beaches on the roads that are now free of charge. And we do it for a number of reasons. First of all, because it's a regressive measure that only has a recalibrational rush. Secondly, because it's an antisocial measure, which is detrimental to people who have the lowest incomes, to the working class. Thirdly, because it establishes economic barriers to access to high-capacity routes and will have as a consequence a very detrimental effect of increasing traffic on conventional routes, with the consequences that this will have on road safety, in greater road insecurity, and in the loss of quality of life in the neighborhoods, in the villages through these conventional routes. And besides, because it's discriminatory for Galicia, because it's a scourge and a trap for the economic and social development of our country and also for the competitiveness of businesses, because we suffer from a centralized and radial model, we also suffer from this Spanish economic metabolism that makes our peripheral condition even more affected by Galicia's productive specialization and the dependence we have on the transport of these commodities that we produce here at large consumer centers. And also for the transport model itself, which needs to be changed for cost reasons and also for environmental reasons. But we don't value that false argument that it's an economic measure, which is a green tax measure. This is not green taxation, that is, in any case, that perverse measure of those who use pay, who pollutes pay, or otherwise, who has money to pollute, because this is about it, and we see it in the case of Endesa with Eume. You can destroy the Eume, we pay a fine, but the Eume is destroyed. That's the reality. It's a trap, it's a mistake and it won't reduce the use of the car and heavy transportation. What really reduces heavy transport is changing priorities in mobility, having a sustainable mobility strategy, which we do not have, and of course, promoting public transport, promoting rail as a fundamental means for both mobility of people and the mobility of transport of goods. And we can't bear this situation where the railway moves less than 5% of the transport of goods, which is unsustainable, social, economic and, above all, environmentally. And look at one thing, and I'm talking to both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, what Galicia needs are no more peas, what Galicia needs is to end the abusive sins of AP-9 and AP-53. What Galicia needs is an AP-9, an AP-9 Welsh, with the transfer and free toll-free; and, still with the fees announced for AP-9 that we want to be realized as soon as possible, and it's already taking time to implement this measure in general, and also in the case of the fee between Round it and Vigo, we will continue to suffer a comparative aggravation with regard to those communities where the fees are being eliminated, and I mentioned earlier the cases that are self-extracted, in addition to the same time as AP-9, and this is an unjustified agravation and discrimination. [[Applause]] And because the state has been cashing with AP-9 for many years, we've said so many times here, it's collected more than 2,000 million euros than we paid in AP-9's fees through privatization and also through taxes charged by the State for the payments of AP-9's fees. And then they're also, and I didn't want to stop quoting them, auto-titled buses, because it's not worth asking that there be no charges on the state highways and keeping them on the autonomous highways. And this is what we've been discussing here recently, and we have to end this trouble, with that discrimination that suffers from districts of Galicia, such as Bergantinos-Costa da Morte da Coruña, or also that of the Val Minor in the Vigo area. It is not justified and one must first see the lower of those rates and then to its definitive elimination. In short, and to finish, we want to make it clear that the BNG will continue to work, it will defend itself in all areas where it is present, in the councils, in the Greek Parliament and in Congress, it will face up to this measure, and we will bring here precisely a proposal for agreement, which is also very similar to what we have already approved in this Parliament when the measure was announced in 2019, and which was unanimously adopted -- we hope that this unanimity will be repeated -- and it is to refuse the proposal of the Central Government to establish fees on the highways for being a discriminatory, unfair, antisocial measure, because it only seeks to cash, because it seriously prejudices Galicia because of its peripheral condition; and for all this we ask for a clear and forceful agreement from this House on behalf of the entire Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u61	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Bará said that this proposal is now coming, apparently this proposal that says there already exists as if it had already been a decision taken, a detailed proposal, which now returns in a more official way, which was previously about balloon probes, but it is not true. The most official way in which this fee was paid for state-owned highways was in the years 2012 and 2018, with the People's Party governments, and I say it was in a much more official way because there were a series of reports and there were a number of concrete proposals. A concrete proposal which, in fact, would continue to govern the People's Party, would be fully operational in this year 2021 and would therefore be charging these fees. I think it was a receipt to score it. [[Applause]] And of course, of course, the PSdeG is against the collection of these fees for the use of state-owned highways in our autonomous community, and the PSdeG has always shown this rejection. It is that we are against positions and ideas, not against governments, which is what it seems we are currently dealing with in this House all against the central government. But the PSdeG, no matter who makes those proposals, we are against the collection of these fees, and so our secretary-general, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, has shown me on different occasions, in 2019 and now there's a little bit also in this year 2021. I agree with you, Mr Bará, that in Galicia we have to move forward just in the opposite direction, we must move forward in the lowering of the fees. And that, precisely, is what the central government is doing with that historic bonus in the beaches of AP-9. The truth is that I also agree with you that the People's Party now all that is to demand things from the central government, for everything demands very quickly, but then on those issues that are entirely autonomously competitive, as they are, and have already been spoken in earlier plenarys, of the bonuses for all users in the beaches of AG-55 and AG-57, because the People's Party votes against. So we from the PSdeg believe that we have to move in another direction, in the entirely opposite direction, in the sense of lowering the rates, and in that, as I said, is what the central government is. So we've been against this fee collection since then, but we're against not only what the Galician Nationalist Block says, which is the intention of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. That's why we tabled this amendment that we are against the establishment of the fees, regardless of whether it is proposed now or proposed in 2019. There is no detailed proposal, as in 2012 and 2018 by the governments of the People's Party, which is included in that Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience which has been accompanied by European funds, which we are asking for money from Europe, and which called for a number of reforms, but there is no concrete proposal, which is to open this debate, this debate on how to finance the maintenance and conservation of these motorways, but it is to open a debate. And the central government itself has made it clear, without consensus from all political forces, that will not go forward. So what you want to open is a debate, a reflection on how to maintain the high-capacity network. But, as we said here, this is not a new problem, it's a recurring problem, and what the central government did is to leave it there as a reflection that will have to address how, when, and said very clear that that would be if there was consensus among all of them. And when there is, because there is not today, a proposal by the real and concrete Government, since it will of course be moved to the sector itself and also to the parliamentary groups so that this proposal will go forward with consensus. If there is no consensus, this proposal will not come out. This is very different from what happened in 2012 and 2018 when they were already reporting on specific proposals. The People's Party is saying that there are now reports, which are not, but at the time of the People's Party those reports did exist. And, I repeat, if there's no consensus, it won't go forward, because this measure won't be imposed; all there is is is a reflection and an invitation to debate. Because we're here talking about intentions, about supposed proposals, but the truth is that the reality of the facts we're seeing as this government is the only one that hasn't extended any concession, that's a fact, and it's there, no concession has been extended. They're lifting those concessions that reach the end of their time. Of course, concessions that are from highways and highways that are cohesive in time to our AP-9, but that by a decision of Mr Aznar, which extended until 2048, because we are all there and all the Galicians paying those abusive fees. [[Applause]] Because, look, there's not a detailed proposal, that rate that was being heard from those five centimeters per kilometer, that yes that was included in a study conducted by the Rajoy Executive, and that even arrived -- that is, it was much further -- to be analysed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. So that's the reality of the facts, the central government is demonstrating that it has not extended any concessions and is on the path of subsidising and releasing fees. Because, look, thanks to the state's general budgets for the year 2021, you can carry out these bonuses in AP-9's peas, which the People's Party and the BNG certainly didn't support those budgets, so they didn't support those bonuses in AP-9's peas, because, in all respects, you sign initiatives, you sign amendments, and we sign general budgets that are going to make this bonus possible. Aznar therefore extended the concession of AP-9 to the year 2048 and this Government in these budgets of the year 2021, 63 million euros for the historic bonuses in AP-9. All travel back will be free, for the recurring travellers a bonus of an additional 20%, an additional 50% on the route O Porriño-Tui, the freeness in the peak of Vigo and Round it, and perhaps the most important, if possible, which is a measure not only for the year 2021, but rather that it is intended to be a measure effective also until the year 2048, which is that scourge that left us the People's Party with that grant of the extension of the AP-9 by the Government of Aznar. I know it's not up to me to position myself, of course, on the amendment tabled by the Popular Parliamentary Group, but I can't ignore certain things that put in its amendment, when at the first point they also talk about the situation that you are suffering from the charges of highways of state-owned Galicia. But if they had him in their hand when they were ruling over seven and a half years, why didn't they do anything to reciprocate or improve those beaches? And above all those roads that are self-sustaining and that have the competition to be able to bulge or eliminate the beaches, because they don't. [[Applause]] So we've been talking about it at the previous plenary session in relation to AG-55 and AG-57. Then, also at the second point, they want to change and get in touch and change July for June; but if you know, because the president of the board himself was gathered with Minister Abalos and came to the commitment that in July those bonuses would be operational, and now they come with this amendment to put June. So, we're going to change a month, so to speak, that this is so much from the People's Party, when -- I say -- for seven and a half years, nothing has been done. But what's more bold is the third point of his amendment: they ask for the urgency of the AP-9 transfer, ask for it before the end of the year 2021. But it was the People's Party itself that blocked the debate on the transfer of this motorway at the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies on two occasions. It's actually an absolute cynicism. [[Applause]] So -- to end --, of course, from my group, from the PSdG, we always show rejection of these fees for the use of state-owned highways. I repeat that we agree that progress must be made in the opposite direction, in order to lower the rates. The amendment we tabled is clearly demonstrated our rejection of this charge, but now -- and so on -- and so on -- as we understand there is no concrete proposal, because there is no such amendment, by the Central Government today, that the only intention of the Central Government today is to open this debate among all parliamentary groups -- and, well, also with the sector concerned -- and that it has already advanced that without that consensus this would not go forward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u64	...and in that sense goes our amendment. But let's make it clear that the PSdG has demonstrated it and has already said it in 2019, our secretary-general has repeated it again in 2021, that we are against the payment of this fee. And let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u66	...if there is no consensus from all groups and from the sector itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u68	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u69	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. In this debate Mr Bará said he was repeating himself. True, history repeats itself, Mr Bará. The Socialist Party again raises taxes to all Spaniards and therefore also to all Greeks; in some cases the face discovered through the general budget of the state and in other cases through the technique of the balloon probe. We're used to it: I make a proposal, if there's a lot of reaction, I withdraw it and, if not, I keep going. In any case, the lack of seriousness is alarming and also recurrent. It's true that in 2020 -- last year -- GDP has fallen by 11%, the biggest drop in Spain's GDP since the Civil War and the largest in OECD countries. The public debt was 1.37 billion euros, 122% of GDP, the highest since the Cuban War. 622,000 jobs were destroyed, 40% of unemployment in Europe grew in Spain, and the unemployment rate is 16.13%. In the face of this economic crisis, there are two possibilities: one, which most European countries and the most advanced countries have done. Europe reacts by encouraging its economy so companies start working again and reduce taxes. And the other is that of the Socialist Party, which does the opposite of everything, the Government -- as Mr Bará said -- the more progressive in Spain's history comes back to all taxes. It always solves problems by raising taxes, but never questioning that inefficient expense, never reducing any of the 22 ministries. Look, I would be willing to bet on what you wanted to see if the Socialist Party Members were able to say the name of the 22 ministers. I know that Mr Bará doesn't know the name of the Ministry of Development, because he keeps calling it Ministry of Development, it's normal, with 22 it's easy not to know. [[Laughter]] But I am sure that Members of the Socialist Party do not know the name of the 22 ministers. Do you think you can solve the matter by reducing superfluous expenditure or, of course, not efficient? [[Applause]] They also came to say these days that this was a necessity because Europe had a duty to put these tolls. It's false, Europe doesn't think so, Europe says that the accounts of the Member States have to be adjusted and there can be no difference. What happens is that you are not able to raise a serious debate on this matter, you put yourself in silence in that resilience plan, just like the indiscriminate rise of all kinds of taxes: the quotas of the autonomouss went up, they eliminated the joint declaration, the price of light -- even yesterday an initiative was discussed in Congress -- the gas oil, they eliminated the breakdowns of private pension plans, the prices of home insurance policies, vehicles, deaths, etc. And now what we ask of you -- just like in 2018 -- is that the Socialist Party moves back. What we've been asking you this second time is that it's about paying the fee on highways and high-capacity roads -- that is, what they said in many interventions to pay for their use -- we're against, they pull it out. Because, let's think about it. First, this approach made by the Socialist Party is clearly discriminatory with Galicia, because it is paid for a mile along the way, which for the peripheral regions is completely discriminatory -- which is also what the spokesman for the Galician Nationalist Block says --. Second, if we accept the principle "who uses, pays," listen, we are opening up the debate to other services that there are many parts of citizenship that do not pay and ask for long ago not to pay taxes for them. I disagree, but you are the ones who open that debate. But we suppose, as you say, who uses it is because he wants it; it's like he's been using high-capacity buses and lanes like he's a luxury. It is not a luxury, it is a necessity and a right; therefore, it cannot be treated with this sovereignty with which this initiative has been treated by various voices of the Socialist Party. Apart from the problem of increasing road insecurity on the rest of conventional roads, as the spokesman for the Nationalist Block Galego said. But let's not lose sight of the fact that the car sector is one of the most recorded sectors of the Spanish economy, the most recorded. So when you talk about that green proposal, it's a lie; you want to go about a sector in which besides all families there's a chance to record and even above it's not discriminated against by income. It's one of the most recorded sectors because there's a registration tax; yesterday we even saw that even in the Senate they're able to lower the registration tax that a few months ago the Socialist Party rose to all Spaniards. It seems the same way you can go down, I don't know, we'll see how the debate in the Senate ends. But the mechanical traction tax is paid in the municipalities. There's a fuel tax, an IVE, a rate to park in cities too, a recycling rate... finally, what you hide behind this balloon probe is one more possibility to keep picking up, that's what they care about alone and exclusively. And the spokesman of the Socialist Party says: we are willing, we refuse -- says the speaker -- our secretary-general rejects it round and round, he has said it several times; now, if there is an equal consensus, we agree. What are we left with? The consensus that is, to accept it or to reject it? Because the Socialist Party's position, in your opinion, is rejection. [[Applause]] And what's worse, you say you're not the one to talk about the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. Well, look, this situation is even worse because we've approved the consideration in the AP-9 transfer bill Congress. But you think they can keep fooling everyone all the time and it's not true. You approved in Congress the consideration and since that approval, on February 2nd this year, you have done absolutely nothing. I'm not lying. No, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, from that day on, there have been several attempts at the Congress Bureau to move that initiative. And you know why he's not moving? Because the Socialist Party does not want to, up to nine times, the processing of that bill has been blocked in the light of that bill, on nine occasions, Mrs Otero! Just look and ask. By the way, will it have anything to do with introducing the fares on the highways with this debate? I believe anything in the Socialist Party. Maybe it has something to do with it. But you say that we also put at a second point to apply once and for all the reduction of the fees in AP-9. Well, of course, because we've been waiting for months and there's no progress. And the question is clear: does the Government of the Socialist Party want to charge for the fees, do you want to put tolls on all high-capacity roads so that they can lower the rates in AP-9? I think at least we need a clarification and they tell us exactly what's going on. Why does it not apply the reduction of the compromised fees and why does it not progress in the processing of the AP-9 transfer? But, well, what can we expect from a Socialist Party that the president tells us in that Plan 2050 that we can't fly on short routes, that we can't eat anything but a few proteins of animal origin a week and at the same time he's going to Toledo to an act of ecological transition with the minister? We can expect a president who said, "I won't deal with Bildu, up to five times I'm going to tell him," and it didn't take anything to deal with Bildu. We can't expect anything from this Socialist Party. Today there is an article in the newspaper that says that, indeed, the principles of the Socialist Party are of clay and the statue of its president is of cast iron. I don't know. It's the author's business today in the press. But look -- finished --, Mr. Bará, yesterday said a voicer of his party -- who's sitting next to her -- : tell me who you're walking with and I'll tell you how you are. Fuck! They were thinking about today's debate. Because you can't always come here offended to talk about the Socialist Party as if it were a manifest non-compliance and at the same time being always ruling, in every place, in every municipality, in every parliament and there they don't pose any problems. You know why? Because you value the transaction much more in those institutions than the defense of Galicia's interests. If you really defended Galicia, you'd have to put the Socialist Party in tights, but you don't dare because it's yours and how it goes in there don't touch it. So, well, when a party hands over everything to the Socialist Party in exchange for nothing, because it's as guilty as the Socialist Party, and that's what people know. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You used to say in your speech -- you said it and you marked it because it looks pretty good -- : Galicia needs a reduction in rates and an AP-9 transfer. I totally agree with you. He said this here, he stayed in the Session Book; I agree, so we tabled this amendment. You see, we haven't talked about it before, but I hope you'll accept it in that sense because, apart from refusing to pay taxes on the highways, we also need to remember these two pending issues of vital importance to Galicia. By the way, in 2018 it was not adopted unanimously, there were 14 abstentions -- I have the agreement there and I remind you -- the People's Party voted in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u71	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u72	...there were others who abstained; and at the second point we voted against, it is true. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u73	Thank you, honourable Member. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u74	Mr. Diego Calvo, it seems that yesterday you didn't understand anything my comrade Noa Presas said. She was referring to "tell me who you're walking with," to those dangerous friends of Mr. Fexóo, who goes from the ghanchete of the great multinationals of the electric oligopolie who want to destroy our country. That's what Noa Presas meant, and that's the danger. [[Applause]] Look, this debate -- look, because it goes both ways -- it's a debate I think very instructive and very necessary and it puts everyone in their place. Clearly, the BNG is clear where it is and always is in the same place, which is to defend the interests of Galicia here and in Madrid. I know you're upset, I know you're upset, I know you're wrong, but get up, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Besides, levels of pharisaism and demagogy for those who arrive in this kind of debate have no limits, because you're specialists in looking at the ball in the alien eye, but don't look at the beam itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u75	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u76	Navallat, I've told you many times that it was much more than a knife, it was a mega-attack and it's still now because of its responsibility. That's the reality of AP-9. [[Applause]] And I want to, of course, also make some clarification to the Socialist Party because it has some lapses. Mrs. Otero said that the central government has not extended any toll. Of course, he did not extend any toll in Catalonia and more in Valencia, in Galicia, yes. We are now paying for the extension of the Socialist Party 2013-2023, those 10 years we are paying them now. And then they will come from 2023 the 25 years of tip that Mr Aznar gave them until 2048. And that's the reality of Madrid's decisions against Galicia's interests. Look, I'm going to make some references to the amendments, but first I also want to make clear some contradictions of what was said here, because I made a clear, concrete and direct reference to the People's Party proposals in 2012-2018 in documents dealing with Ineco, and this is said here and it became clear that it was already a measure of the People's Party that was going to apply in its road map in 2021. With regard to the amendments of the Socialist Group, we do not understand this commitment to abolishing the proposal for the Central Government Agreement, because this is not the Vatican who wants to approve it, it is the Central Government, it is the Government of Madrid, and it must therefore be referred to. And this is not an idea for a Tea Party debate, that's an idea, it's a proposal that is in an official document sent to Brussels, in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which opens several possibilities and which foresees its application in 2024. Then you have to position yourself. And you say: it's to open a debate, but the debates dance in parliaments, dance in parliaments, and that's why we're giving here the debate and we want there to be a clear, firm and strong position on the same line as we approved in 2018 and 2019, which has been negotiated. And, of course, what is already for note are the amendments of the People's Party, which seeks again to divert attention. We want there to be an agreement in this plenary debate on the fares on the highways, which are free of charge. The other topics we can discuss when they want, and we bring proposals here and discuss them on numerous occasions about AP-9 or also about the Welsh peas buses, can also bring them to the People's Party, delighted to bring them in and we'll also be happy to approve of those peas, which are eliminated by these peas. But, of course, since they come with those tears of crocodile delays in processing the transfer of AP-9, you who are responsible for the systematic veto to the transfer of AP-9, who have vetted it up to three times, who have been putting poles on the wheels successively, who are now asking for haste, you. [[Applause]] They should be a little embarrassed and at least quiet on this matter. And we're going to work tirelessly to make that transfer take effect as soon as possible. But we also know one thing: that the Government of the Union will continue to put poles on the wheels on this subject. And he announced something that will be, we'll see about it in his own time. Finally, what we are here is an announcement of a measure that goes into a larger package than what is called a reform programme, which is really a hidden programme that comes to the brink of this crisis directed and decided from Brussels, which are imposed measures, retroactive measures, such as in the field of work, as in pensions, measures that go in the line of greater centralization, of higher concentration of wealth. That's not progressive taxation measures, and it seems to us very well that the People's Party is talking about lower taxes, but lower taxes for you is lowering taxes to the wealthiest, the wealthiest, and you don't have to go around. Therefore, the BNG will continue to defend this, will defend it in parliaments and also in the streets. And the agreement we propose is very clear and should not give way to any doubt. "The Galician Parliament agrees as a resolution to show its strong opposition to the Central Government's intention to impose taxes on state-owned highways for all these reasons I have said and because it is an obstacle to Galicia's economic development and social cohesion." If that's the case, they vote in favour, and if they don't, they'll have to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Da María Guadalupe Murillo Solis and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia to demand from the Central Government that the return of the EVV of November be extended to all the councils and the European Parliaments There is a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Replacement amendmentThe text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Gounta de Galicia to demand from the Government of Spain:1o.- The immediate fulfilment of the Supreme Court's judgement No. 553/2021 of 23 April 2021 and, consequently, to make effective the compensation of the monthly VAT corresponding to November 2017, which was not settled in 2019, together with the corresponding legal interests2o.- That this return of the IVE in November 2017 is extended to all the municipalities and provincial deputies in Greece, by an estimated amount of more than 40 million euros to which the central interest has to be added.3o.- The use of this method of applying to the title to the Galician organ, which is credited with the amount of August 2017, with the amount of revenue, 2017, the amount of the amount of €5 million, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the loan.]] [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal: Replacement AmendmentReplace the resolution with the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia agrees, by resolution, to express its support for the request by the Committee of Galicia to the Central Government to transfer immediately to the Board of Galicia and Autonomous 204 MEuro of the monthly IVE corresponding to November 2017 and that, in the light of the existing judgments, it will extend this refund to the accounts attached to the local authorities of Galicia.The Parliament of Galicia urges the Board of Galicia to ensure that the amount recovered by the monthly IVE corresponding to November 2017 will be invested in the budgetary reinforcement of the public health system to address the consequences of the pandemic of the cod-19 and the needs for recovery of deferred and pleasant services.]] To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. General Council of the Judiciary, judgment: "To estimate the administrative litigation brought by the Galician Board in relation to the rejection of the claim made in the request made to the Council of Ministers, for the adoption of the measures necessary to compensate the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial gap in the settlement of the value added tax for the financial year 2017, condemning the General Administration of the State to compensate the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial gap caused by the amount to be set aside in the execution of the judgment, which will be determined by the difference between the result of the liquidation carried out by the Ministry of Finance and which would have resulted in the calculation of the collection of VAT for 12 months, including the amount to be set for the month of November 2017, to which the payment of legal interest should be added in the reasoned terms." Judgment of the Supreme Court No. 1,565 of the year 2021, made public last May and which gives reason to the Council of Galicia. In a process that has a long history in this House; the origin of this problem derives from the adoption in 2016 of a real decree for the immediate supply of value added tax information, which allows the electronic management of the VAT register books, so that the time of accounting for invoices is approaching at the time of the underlying economic operation, which has entailed great advantages. First of all, for the Administration, because it allows for much better monitoring of compliance with tax obligations -- therefore, fighting fraud -- but also for taxpayers, because the proximity in time to the statement that takes place 4 days after the invoice record contains less formal obligations, less paperwork, less need to supply data, less possibility of making errors because they are contrasting with the information that the Company has; there is more time to make the declarations and, instead, shorter time limit for obtaining the checks and returns. It was launched with the general applause of all political forces and tax experts, it was launched in 2017 and it was expected to happen in relation to the system of self-financing. As the cash criterion applies in the division between the autonomous communities and the state to 50%, the 10-day settlement implied that in 2019 the calculation was impossible to do in the closure of the exercise, including the month of November, to which the judgment refers, and from there the Government of Spain settles for 11 months instead of 12 months, generating an prejudice to all autonomous communities of approximately 2,500 million, of them more than 200 to Galicia; and also to councils and deputies for more than 750 million euros, 60 million euros approximately to Galicia. It wasn't because this administration and most of them didn't warn. Already in July 2018 Galicia warns you at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is where these things should be done, and at the Higher Tax Coordination Council on the need to correct this situation. Up to three plenary sessions of the Tax and Financial Policy Council, number 100, 101 and 102, the Greek Counsellor warned of the importance of resolving this issue, in anticipation of what would happen. He was sent letters to the ministry in August 2018; the President of the Board met with the Minister of Fairy and the Councillor of Fairy where he was assured that this issue will be resolved; in October 2018 the President confirmed in the press round that with this guarantee these amounts are included in the budgets approved for 2019; and in the Chamber we also approved in December 2018 a PNL in which the PP requested that this money be brought forward, which was supported by some political forces and that the Socialist Party abstained. Despite promising an arrangement in budgets, which are not approved, they remember that budgets which decreased investment in Galicia by 18%, but which apparently brought a solution to this issue, were rejected; there was an election call. In July, the councillor of Fairy sends back a letter to the minister in order to urge a solution to the VAT and the same does in August, and the response of the Government of Spain is sent to a report by the State Counsel that says it cannot be updated because the Government is in operation. We then have the State of Autonomy debate, we adopt a resolution once again demanding the entry of these 200 million euros, again the PSOE abstains and the president asks again, remembering that the Courts are not in operation, and that, in the same way that deliveries to the account were arranged via real decree, if he could arrange this too by the way of the real decree. In fact, in December, once deliveries are updated to the account by actual decree, a new solution is demanded by the advisor, and in January the apology, in this case in January 2020, is that it is no longer possible to find a solution and to literally express that such money does not exist. That's when a non-liquidated EVI requirement is made to the Council of Ministers and, in response to the negative response given to that requirement, in August it is when an appeal is filed that we have just known how the Supreme Court resolves in favour of the autonomous community. This chronology in which I was arrested realises, firstly, that the German Government tried all possible dialogue solutions, tried everything it could to solve a question where it was clearly right and that it was the closure of a government that preferred to transfer the deficit of autonomous communities and leave the 200 million in its account at a time when it was already failing the European Union's spending standards, even before the pandemic, it preferred to transfer, I say, that deficit to autonomous communities, create a problem and fail to comply with the legality, as the European Union's ruling clearly states. Because if you read the judgment, it says two things: firstly, that the immediate information system of the EVI has nothing to do with the problem generated in autonomous financing, it is more, the Government calls for that decree to be annulled and the judgment itself dismisses that argument; and, secondly, that there is an economic breakdown to the autonomous communities in general, to the municipalities in general and, in particular, to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, clearly violating the principle of institutional loyalty, which is a legal principle, should be a principle of action, but it is juridified both in the Law of Administrative Procedure and in the LOFGA in our country. Well, we, who were aware of the previous sentence for Castile and León, presented an initiative asking to return to Galicia as well. Since then we have known that there has already been a sentence for Galicia, the second sentence that exists; it is specified therefore that it has been breached with Galicia and what we ask for in our initiative is immediate compliance, compensating that month of IVE; we ask that the Town Councils, which some governed by the Socialist Party at the moment also required, although the Socialist Party of Galicia has not done so in this House. We ask them to adjust and return to Galicia, if they compensate for the incentives, for the compliance included in the 2018 budgets, the same way the People's Party did earlier. And in addition, I believe that we offer a reasonable instrument, and within institutional loyalty, and that would better allow a general solution, which is a call for a fiscal and financial policy council that has not met for eight or nine months, despite the fact that we are theoretically at the moment of greater governance in Spanish democratic history. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we call for the House's support to resolve a problem which has clearly been caused, as the judgment states, by the current Government of Spain. We are not confronting the Government of Spain, we are defending the interests of Galicia when they were clearly attacked by a decision of the Government of Spain that did not wish to be rectified; we want the solution to be comprehensive also for the councils of Galicia and other autonomous communities; we want it to be on the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; and I think the opposition has in general in this case an opportunity to rectify everything that was said in the past, that this morning reminded the president. To correct, first, the Government of Spain by convening the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and, second, the opposition, which saw how the Government defended the interests of the country and which not always, and particularly one of the opposition forces, never supported in this fair claim the Government of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u79	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Starting at the end of Mr Puy's intervention, since the Galego Nationalist Block, as always, we have supported this demand and we have always been on the side of the greatest interest of the Greeks and the Greeks, because, of course, it remains as an initial question that we have nothing to rectify on this issue. In any case, as you have remembered, indeed, this subject has a long history in this House of majority pronouncements in this House, mostly understanding as such not only the majority group, but also including other political forces. In any case, we want to keep that question, which is not smaller, which is not smaller in general terms in the political context that we have in recent years, but is not less in the specific context that we live in successive election calls. And for our part, we insist that we would like to see in this matter the difference from what was in other times in this Parliament, the pronouncement regardless of who is the proposed group was really unanimous, not only majority but government. That's why we tabled an amendment to update, just as the group did proposing its text, since the two days from the presentation, as has already been said here, was also known the Greek sentence, and also constructively to go a little further, to give the fact that we have already to have a unanimous pronouncement regarding the need for immediate return and to focus on the fact that in the extraordinary context that we live we would have to bet on reinvestting this into public health, as once again today our national spokesperson in the first hour of this plenary session. We insist that because we also think it would be an argument that would strengthen our position, because in this context it would make it much more difficult for the central government not to give in to this extreme. In any case, I have already advanced that, as in previous times, the place of the Galego Nationalist Block will be on the side of the defence of the interests of the Greeks and Greeks on this issue, because it is clear and meridian that such return must be demanded and that it be demanded immediately. Therefore, I don't feel bad about saying again in this House that it's good news that this sentence comes. We also say that, even if the sentence has not yet come, we understand that we would have the reason on our side. In any case, taking advantage of that, despite the fact that we have always been on the side of the Government on this issue and on the side of the interests of the Greeks and Greeks, we have always left out of our political appraisal of this matter, because let me also begin by putting a little footnote on this issue, because it was already in October 2019 where, exhausted several avenues of prior negotiation with the Central Government, since the Nationalist Block Galego we have already warned that the Central Government was not to be trusted and was not acting with good intent, and that therefore it had no sense to dilate again and again the decision-making to attend to the courts, and even more when Galicia's Congress itself prepared a report from its judicial office, if I do not recall it, August or September that same year. So we, at the time of October 2019, brought an initiative to this House asking ourselves why, if we had already had that legal report, we could not take a step forward for an attempt to judicialize the political route, which they know perfectly well that it is something that BNG does not defend, but because the other tracks were already exhausted. Our reading, and the past time, is that if you didn't do it, it was precisely that loop of election calls we were in and that this was an element to throw at the Central Government and campaign. It's legitimate but, of course, we would have gone better as a country if they had done it a little earlier. With this I do not want to underestimate the importance of this step ahead, which is undoubtedly a strong argument for that amount to return as soon as possible, but, in any case, it would not have coincided for example with the state of alarm since you in February sent a requirement that was not mandatory, according to the legal framework, to send. He took all the state of alarm and all the slowdown we're living. But in any case, that's already part of the past. I would also like to take advantage of some reflection on what the living thing teaches us, and we have more and more arguments to support our theseses about what was the underlying problem yesterday as well, what is the underlying problem today, and what is going to be the day tomorrow. On the one hand, we saw the incoherence and also the futility of the state forces; we lived it on the line of the included here already with regard to the deliveries to the account, which was found a partial and late decision, which was also premeditated upon the issue of the VAT in a clear hijacking of the budget capacity of this country. When the Socialist Government entered, initially the same person as when he was counseling in his autonomous community demanded one thing, he changed his mind: he first asked for patience, but then patience was on his way. And while we insist, neither does the epistollary strategy work with the central government when it doesn't or does it repeatedly ask for that fiscal and financial policy board. That's why we insist on bilateral negotiation, because that body has been, if I don't remember bad, year and a half, I don't think I'm exaggerating a month without meeting. Anyway, I think I'm getting short, I'm talking about memory. In any case, all this for us also consolidates the vision of a very clear issue, which is that there is a need for a change of economic relationship with the central government and the state, because the payment of VAT when it arrives -- which, I insist, I hope it will be as soon as possible -- will be important, we do not want to demean it, but of course it does not solve all the economic and financial problems we have with this country. Starting with the financing system itself, which Mr. Feijóo not only applauded on his day, but did not have the slightest intention since 2014 that he had renegotiated, and the question is whether we could have avoided this. And the truth is, yes, because this is a problem that affects communities in the common regime and they don't have this problem, for example, Euskadi or Navarre. But, in any case, regardless of this specific aggravation, because the reflection we want to leave on the table is that this shows the re-centralisation of the State, shows also the lack of loyalty and cooperation and shows the subordination of the Greek interests to the interests of the State in this area, and we understand that this is not good for our country, and that the only alternative to ensuring that our resources come to us would be to have another economic model. This is a question that should also be opened every time we go normalizing this health crisis that we are living in; and we think that a bad history of this behavior by the Central Government, in the same way that the relaxation that we had in the Union in other periods is also a bad history. Also with regard to this, it is no less the reflection that the legal framework of deficit and financial stability would have to be overcome, because ultimately the conclusion is that Galicia complied and then the State did not comply with Galicia, did not comply with this issue of VE, and then there is that other counties claiming to the Galician Union and that we have already warned on many occasions that it was an operation of the People's Party itself so that the popular communities that did not meet would not fall ill in the face of the popular communities that failed to comply and that these counties would not be claimed. So we understand that this experience with yesterday's lenses, but also with the lenses of what we're experiencing in this crisis, shows us that what we need is to ensure through political negotiation and a change in the framework of more financial sovereignty. And I also want to add that this experience throws us another concern that we also show in other periods. Whenever there is an economic crisis there is an attempt to recentralise the State, we have already warned the thread of the issue of European funds that in management there is a conscious attempt to recentralise, even on competences that are exclusive or partial to the community and therefore we understand that the EVI is not the only problem but shows clearly what the roadmap is, what is more centralism and what is more the acquisition of financial and economic resources, because as it was done in its day with the current financial stability framework, which is minimally suspended, and how it is done with other issues. So we understand that, beyond this support, which is guaranteed, this experience should serve to reflect on what steps our country must take to ensure its financial autonomy from now on. And finally, to insist also on closing my intervention that it would be good too, because since the first force of the opposition we have remained on the side of the Government, and, I insist, more than on the side of the Government, on the side of the Greeks and Greeks on this matter, because it would not be too much generosity on the part of those who govern, a little less sovereignty and open up to a debate on which are the needs. And in that debate we have it clear. That fact, which, we insist, will be on the side of the claim that it will recover as soon as possible, for us the scope for which it should be intended is health, precisely by putting a final data on the table, in the last report that we have of the Board of Auditors on health management of the year 2018, additional funding, without a health crisis by means, would reach 209 million euros. So we insist, as we did in the budgetary debate, that the increase in the public health system is not enough, therefore, a good measure would be to ensure that when I return this amount it is intended for this purpose. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u82	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr. Puy, indeed, you are now taking an initiative which has already been debated in this House, so you said, I was not, but indeed, over the past few years. It is true that you initially brought an initiative that then self-emerced, indeed, because the judgment affecting Galicia took place a few days after the initiative was registered, but in that new self-amendment you introduced a new claim which had nothing to do with the initiative that affected Galicia's decision declaring the right to receive the EVI of the liquidation of the year 17 but which also introduced a claim of 170 million linked to the good fiscal performance of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 17 and 18. As you know, this debate, or the claim of the 170 million, because it is a debate, at last, you say that you are not interested in confronting the People's Party with the Central Government, I say that the approach of this kind of initiatives, although it has to do with that purpose, with a goal of wear and permanent confrontation with the Government of the State, also introducing on this initiative the claim of these 170 million euros, to which I will then mention. With regard to the Supreme Court's judgment, in fact, we have to show our respect, as it could not be otherwise, to a judgment handed down by the courts. It also shows that the power and division of powers in this country works and that the strength of the constitutional state is imposed and, therefore, we rejoice that this is the case. And the second question we wanted to express is that all of this has to do with the updating of deliveries to the account, or with the same problem affecting the shifted VAT, which is the object of this initiative, because, well, these are issues that obviously affect the imperfections of the self-government or the financing of the autonomous state. In this sense, there is indeed a judgment, a judicial judgment; you demand immediate compliance with the judgment, we say that the judgments as all kinds of judgments are actually complied with, that they are effective, that the law is applied, ultimately, and therefore we have nothing more to discuss in this respect. There is a procedure, which is the procedure for executing a sentence, where the content that corresponds to the autonomous community will actually be clarified, depending on the difference between the EVI that corresponds to it and the EVI that has been liquidated at its time, and from there we do not know if it is exactly 200 million of those who speak the initiative or are 198 or 204. In any case, what we have of course is that the problem of the EVI and the problem of the liquidation of the EVI is not a problem that only affected Galicia as you said, so there was no confrontation to Galicia, there were communities of the Socialist Party that were affected exactly the same, and therefore we did not fall into excessive victimism here, because this is an issue that actually affected all communities of the common regime and they all were affected by a decision. The origin of the deal, of course we all have a position on it, but here is no doubt that in 2016 a real decree was passed, which you also mentioned, where the possibility that companies were raised, or that the possibility that Turna demanded companies immediately to submit invoices, of course, but also enabled companies to submit their IVE statements corresponding to the month of November, not in the early 20 days of December, as usual, but until the day 30. And that evidently caused a problem of displacement from the EVI collection to the month of January that had consequences at the time of liquidation produced two years later in the year 2019, when the liquidation took place for 11 months and not for 12 months. From there, the reading evidently comes from there, it comes from there, from this regulatory amendment to the VAT regulation, made by a Government of the People's Party. And to your own judgment which you alluded to, as well as to: "The High Court resolves in this second judgment which affects Galicia that the imbalance resulting from the application of the immediate information system determined the violation of the right of financial autonomy of the autonomous community." And he adds to his own judgment: "...that the application of a rule -- regulatory in this case, or Royal Decree in question of the year 2016, 596/2016 -- brought with it a change of the rule of the financial system, legally established producing a imbalance that is necessary to correct." It was therefore the normative change introduced by the People's Party, by Mr. Montoro, which caused this reading. From then on, you actually tried to find solutions, you were on some issue, i.e., in the proposal that the 2019 budget should be set at EUR 2,500 million to effectively compensate for the pending VAT payment to all autonomous communities. What happened here, and as we all know, is that the budget of the year 2019 was not adopted as a result of a negative vote, of the Courts, of the State, the People's Party and of the Citizens themselves, and from there we all know that a Government in function is opened, and the question we are asking is whether the Government in function could actually solve this issue. You used to say yes and at the same time quote the state lawyer, who said no. Well, the state lawyer said a government in office couldn't solve this problem. The search for solutions in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council was attempted; you here referred to some claims in that forum and, indeed, in the Tax and Financial Policy Council it also proposed some kind of solution on the Government's side, not accepted by the communities of the People's Party, basically consistent with the flexibility of the deficit, of 0.2, or even that of attending to FLA loans at no cost of any kind. Well, in relation to the position of the Greek socialists, in fact in this House it was what it was, it abstained, but not because it was against the return of VAT to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but because it was in favour of the search for legal solutions to a problem caused by the People's Party. And in that sense, the initiatives that the PSdEG and the Socialist Group here defended were actually looking for the appropriate legal mechanisms, including the modification of the VAT Regulation, so that indefinitely the declaration and liquidation of the VAT corresponding to the month of November could be presented in the first 20 days, and also considering the possibility of legal mechanisms being sought to return the VAT to the autonomous community, quantified at that time by EUR 198 million. [[Applause]] With regard to the proposal you also make on the initiative, concerning the claim of the 170 million good fiscal performance of the autonomous community concerning 2017 and 2018, I believe that this is, I will allow you, in addition to my appreciation and respect, this is to introduce in the debate an element of ongoing confrontation and wear with the Government of the State. You're going to have to tell me where that 170 million calculation comes from, what legal protection it has, and to me the most important thing is, if you really owe yourself to the autonomous community 170 million for the good fiscal performance, why didn't the Council of Galicia, as you did with the IVE, come to the courts to defend Galicia's interests? So it would be good, Mr. Puy, to explain all this to us, because the Budget Law in 2018, in a transitional provision, established the following: "The Government could agree to the approval of incentives to autonomous communities for compliance with tax rules." Well, at last this toast to the sun that usually makes the People's Party when the Government, but that ultimately takes the Socialist Party when it has to rule, and it is also used as a constant wear and tear of what the Government is now in Madrid. Having said this, said this, I also have to tell you that there are no comparisons here with the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Never an autonomous community, never had so many funds from the state, never, and therefore it would be good for those funds to be used in the country's territorial and social cohesion. 685 million this year from state transfers, 410 million from the RACT Fund, 236 million for autonomous and pemes, and now 200 million. In addition to 735 million of the year 2020. I'd like you to recognize the People's Party as well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u84	...as I am doing on behalf of the Socialist Group, of the right Galicia has to receive the 200 million or the counties corresponding to the VAT of 2017, which is recognized by the majority group of the House, that the Government of the State has never invested or transferred so much money to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. In relation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u86	...in relation, I don't know if you'll allow me to vote for points, because I appreciate it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's see, I appreciate the tone of this debate, but I would ask the Block, which can answer me and I'm sure we're going to continue to debate this, when he says that they always supported Galicia, are you sure of what he says? Because first you ask us to follow the Catalonia solution, which was different from what you did to Junta, and the case is that Junta already has a sentence and Catalonia has nothing, and there they ask for a different solution from that which you asked for. But you in Congress, I have here the Journal of Sessions, on January 28, 2020, the People's Party in Congress has filed a complaint asking for this, and you with the same argument you used today that what you want is basically a coupon system, which we all know is harmful to Galicia, preposing a sovereignist ideology, which is very legitimate, but in this case is economically ruinous to Galicia, they voted not directly to which Congress approved the return of VAT to autonomous communities. Well, you have to decide which side you're on. If you want to help in the current institutional situation when Galicia is discriminated against or you prefer to defend legitimately interests, which I understand are those of the maximalist program, in which you are becoming more and more steep and which I think is not good for the country. Mr. Rivera, you know that I have good esteem for you, and I would like to congratulate you, because the truth is that you have defended the indefensible with a dignity that I find commendable, and even you have come to say that the issue of VVI was what it was, the position of the Socialist Party in this House last year was what it was. I remembered the old Corral Churches that "here happened what happened." That's what it was. Okay. First, the 85 million euros were in the two motions we approved in the House to which I referred, so we also asked for them. They can't go through court proceedings because it doesn't comply with LOFCA, that's in the Budget Act, and what you've read makes it clear that the current government doesn't have the will it had before, that if it paid the 75 million to Galicia, to compensate the autonomous communities that faithfully comply with the institutional framework of stability, benefiting the whole of the country too, because we when we manage not only think of Galicia, we think that we are in a state that is good for it to go well, because that's good for Galicia, which is good for the whole of Spain. With regard to the sentence, you say the separation of powers works, but what is important of the judgment, I never doubted that the separation of powers had worked in Spain, what the sentence says is who was right, who was right. [[Laughter]] And, of course, you say we're dealing with it, it's back on the subject of confrontation. Okay, we politely request by letter, we ask for no fiscal and financial policy council, we send alternative solutions from the legal point of view, and that is to confront. What were you doing? Since I wasn't here, I'll remember him. August 2008: "He's now going on a lifeboat, but before Montoro he didn't defend anything. It's cynical and disloyal." Your leader, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, who hasn't come to the House lately. "Gonzalo Caballero places Feijóo to leave his childhood rabies." Let's keep going. When the minister says that there is no such money: "Gonzalo Caballero warns that the judicial remedy initiated by Feijóo will not provide a solution to the problem of VAT". Oh, my God! "Gonzalo Caballero, Secretary General of Socialists -- January 23, 2020 -- charged Feijóo for using confrontation only to search for electoral revenues." January 2020, Mr. Caballero says he's looking for a confrontation strategy. "The lies of Feijóo are thrown away one by one." "The speech of Spain robs us, the false speech of Feijóo that Spain robs us and defends the holder of the Galician Government with the claim of the 200 million euros of VAT. Go to the judicial route because he no longer finds a way to give answers." In that he was right, the answers we found in the judicial system. But in the meantime there were their councils, for example the one in the Coruña, that if they voted in favour of this resolution when the People's Party asked for it, and went out unanimously. And now, of course, comes the sentence that promoted the People's Party, in Castile together with us, and what they do is ask this. He also talks about the immediate information system; I ask him to read the sentence, which clearly says it has nothing to do with the system of self-financing. Moreover, the state attorney asks that this decree be repealed, just as you were asked on an initiative that has not been dealt with and which has also been registered in the past legislation. And, finally, I think it's good that you recapitulate, that we're often not confronting, we're defending Galicia's interests and institutional legality. And I say this because yesterday in Congress you voted against a recognition of Galicia's successor pacts; it's a new attack on our financial autonomy, it goes to the Senate, they still have an opportunity to defend there Galicia because it will prejudice Galicia's financial autonomy that inconceivable presumption that the application of Galician civil law systematically leads to the presumption that it is a fraudulent operation. They've got time for rectification. Of course he has talked about other things, I know the importance of the moment we are now, of the importance of the European funds that the Government of Spain deals in a way that we believe is not correct, moving away from the system of self-financing in such a way that the funds received represent 5% of the total, when Galicia's participation in the system of autonomous financing to provide health, social policy and education services is 6.6, there's a remarkable difference. We will continue to defend Galicia's interests in this area, but what we will never lose sight of is that the autonomous state is the compatibility of self-defence but in a cooperative context of institutional loyalty. But that must also be the duty of the opposition, to make criticism but responsible, to give the government the reason when it has it, that is, to say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u90	...to be loyal to the country, obviously assuming the highest sovereign programmes, and, of course, the fidelity of the acronym must always be behind the interests of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u91	Mr. Puy, about the amendment, did I say something?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u92	On the amendment, as the president has already said this morning, it is clear that while the delivery of money to Galicia is not materialized, it is very difficult to think of assigning these funds to any concrete purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u93	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to promote and dynamize the marine wind sector This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and also an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal: Amendment of amendment Proposes a new wording for point 2 of the resolution, which will be drafted as follows:"2. Assessing the settlement of parks in the contiguous marine environment, ensuring that no damage is done to fishing activities and the preservation of the marine ecosystem."Additional amendment must be added a new point 4, which will have the following content:"4. To promote the implementation in Galicia of business and industrial activity associated with the production of marine wind energy, using the powers of the Government of Galicia in the field of economic promotion and industrial policy."]] [[(G. P. Nationalist Bloc Galego, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replace the resolution part with the following text:"The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1- Demonstrate the vigour of the political agreement of the plenary of Parliament Galego of 12 May 2009 on the wind deployment in Galicia, provided that the legal and administrative framework as well as the Strategic Environmental Study of the State Coast for the installation of marine wind farms until the moment have not undergone substantial changes..2.- Demanding the full decision-making capacity of the central government for Galicia with regard to energy planning and, in particular, the implementation of the marine wind in Galicia in both inland waters and the territorial economic zone has not been substantially modified until the moment.) productive capacity and to pool the Galician position towards the state and international changes in coastal management.4.- To give up its lack of transparency and to refer to the Galego Parliament, within a maximum of one week, the following documentation: 4- To give up its lack of transparency and to refer to the Galego Parliament, within a maximum of one week, the following documentation:4.1 copy of the allegations or considerations sent by the Galician Union to the brink of the open consultation process of the Roadmap for the development of the Marine Winds and the Sea Energy in Spain and towards the development of the Plan for the Sorting of the Maritime Space (POEM)4.2 copies of the projects and studies, if available, of the Galician Union regarding the introduction of the marine wind energy on the coast developed since 2009 as well as of any project submitted to state or European bodies to compete at the expense of the next Generation funds. 4.2 copies of the projects and studies, if any, of the Galician Board regarding the introduction of marine wind energy on the Galician coast developed since 2009 as well as any project sent to state or European bodies to compete for the future of the Next Generation.4.3 copies of the documentation concerning, if any, all requests for the processing of marine wind farms on our coast."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u94	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Today we bring an initiative of great importance, from our point of view, to the future of Galicia, especially for what it has to do with our energy system. The generation of wind energy from marine parks around the coast has become an enormous potential in recent years. First of all, because it produces clean, renewable energy, carbon-free. Secondly, because its landscape impact, its ecological impact is reduced, much less than the deployment of other renewable energies. Thirdly, by the great impulse that I assumed for the economic and labor dynamisation of our country. Studies carried out so far, and especially in recent years, point out that Galicia has optimal conditions to develop this activity, both by the kilometres of the coast and the multiple marine spaces with high-productive wind conditions as well as by our proven experience in managing wind farms. In addition, the evolution of technologies already allows the installation of floating parks perfectly compatible and respectful of marine activities and with minimal environmental impact. The European Union itself is pushing these projects through its Blue Energy Strategy, which considers marine energy production to be one of the priority areas for sustainable long-term growth. By 2020 alone, marine wind farms have left more than 28 billion euros in investments in the European Union and so today we have about 112 such parks in 12 EU Member States. Studies from the European Union estimate that by 2030 energy from this source could be 14% of the electricity demand from member states, largely exceeding land wind. Without a doubt, Galicia relies on the knowledge, the potential and the installed capacity needed to promote a project of these characteristics, which would be an important revolutionary to our economy and also to our employment. According to the offshore energy working group of ASIME, the Association of Metal Industries and Associated Technologies of Galicia, currently in Galicia the marine wind wind generates around 800 direct jobs and around 350 indirect jobs. With the implementation of wind farms on the Galician coast, it is estimated that more than 12,000 jobs could be created over the next decade. We are faced with an opportunity that, from our point of view, we must not lose and that can come to drive the recovery of the economic and industrial crisis that we are currently living in Galicia and throughout Spain. No doubt this initiative would have made no sense if it had affected negatively or if we thought it had affected negatively other maritime sectors. And therefore, for the People's Parliamentary Group, it is essential to boost the marine wind in Galicia by the hand of the industrial sector, by the hand of the maritime-fishing sector and by the hand of the entities and organizations linked to the sea wind itself. The key to the success of a project of these characteristics is not to favour a sector that dramatically affects others, but to create synergies so that all the marine industry tissue is strengthened and both activities are perfectly compatible. And, of course, the hand of the marine space management plans that the Government is developing and in which we will have to identify those locations of the possible marine wind that do not in any case affect the fishing and maritime activity of our community. So our priorities at this time and with this initiative are dialogue, consensus and transparency to ensure that the development of this technology takes place -- yes and only if -- from balance and compatibility with fishing activities and the preservation of the marine ecosystem. We believe that we are faced with an extraordinary opportunity, in addition to the arrival of the European Next Generation funds specially created for such projects, for projects of this nature. Funds designed not only for the recovery of the economic and labour crisis resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, but also for a profound shift from industrial and energy fabric to a more sustainable, greener and more future model. And that's why since the Government of Greece has been working for months, along with the Committee of Economic Experts and the sectors involved, too, with ASIME, to develop the projects that, by taking advantage of these European funds, can bring about a real model change and a future solution for the difficulties of our industry. Because this is what the Galician Union has been doing since the beginning of the pandemic, and from a long time before: to support existing industries and their workers without giving up on more permanent solutions that guarantee the future. I think it's just the opposite of what the central government has been doing, which is closing the vast part of the Welsh productive fabric of different sectors. In this framework, I would like to recall the momentum of the marine wind, which is, of course, one of the proposals that we included within our pact of State for Ferrol, a state pact in which we intend to encourage the study and development of this sector through a hub of offshore wind. A very interesting proposal that could mark a turning point in the crisis that has suffered a region for decades, so dependent on the naval sector and so difficult, in addition to advancing the diversification of activities. We have already achieved the unanimity of all the groups of this House by supporting this state pact and the request for the Government of the State to join it, and we believe it is extremely important that this Parliament also stand in favour of that bet on the sea wind and the opportunities it brings. Today we bring this initiative to study, to analyze, to move forward in the possible future of marine wind in Galicia. First of all, we propose to promote offshore marine wind power through the promotion of study and knowledge of this technology and its technical elements and means of implementation. Secondly, we propose to evaluate the possibilities and impact of their settlement on the Welsh marine environment, ensuring -- I insist -- compatibility with fishing activities and preservation of the marine ecosystem -- and for us this point is fundamental and this point is decisive --. And finally, we propose the creation of an observatory on marine wind, an area of dialogue with the agents involved. A space in which to collect the approaches of entities -- both national and European, international, and, of course, Welsh -- especially with regard to the deployment of the marine windmill on our coast. Promoting the implementation of specific environmental and socio-economic studies for Galicia that enable us to have real knowledge that will enable us to ensure that this compatibility of activities is possible. If that compatibility of activities is possible, we are in favour of opening the doors to the marine windmill in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, tens of countries all over the world -- many of them our European partners -- are taking advantage of the opportunity that marine wind has to offer. This initiative does not require to start building wind farms tomorrow along our entire coast; that is not our goal; this initiative seeks to formally study this matter. He claims formal studies, serious analysis of opportunities that assumed offshore wind in Galicia. Of course, we will require maximum environmental guarantees and a constant dialogue between the sectors that depend on our marine coastline. But because of lack of study, which due to lack of debate, we cannot afford to lose the opportunity to develop an energy model of the greener and more sustainable future that would give employment to thousands of Greeks. That's what we think and that's why we bring this initiative to debate in this House, to position ourselves again 12 years after we've done it against accumulated knowledge -- national, international -- about a perfectly developed and mature technology, like offshore wind. Let us not limit Galicia for lack of studies, for lack of committees of dialogue between the sectors that can allow us to go ahead and open up new opportunities for the future for employment and the economy of Galicia. That's what we bring to this plenary today, and that's what we propose to this House today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Galicia, which is one of the most self-contained autonomous communities installed in proportion to its territory, is currently experiencing a strong expansion of the wind sector, which is expected to double over the next few years. We're seeing each week as new wind farms are projected in every corner of our territory. This situation is generating a social response that seems logical to us, because the current wind model is very important in Galicia and so we advocate the implementation of a new wind model within the powers of the Union, and we have many initiatives in this direction in this Parliament. Because we are all supporters of the wind, at least our group is, but in an orderly manner and with a regulation that protects as much of our territory as possible and that benefits our society as much as possible. We are clearly in favour of renewable energies as the main vector of the ecological transition; in fact, last week the President of the next United Nations Climate Conference, which will be held this year in Glasgow, said that the Climate Change Act, in which you abstained in Congress and so much criticised, demonstrates -- and I quote literally -- the Spanish Government's international leader in this matter, the Spanish Government's international leader in the fight against climate change; that's what the president of the next United Nations Climate Conference says. And for our part, we reiterate that we are clearly in favour of renewable energies in general and of wind energy in particular, but the current model causes damage to our territory, has an excessive social impact and does not leave sufficient economic benefits in the country. And in that sense, we bet -- again -- for a new model that democratizes wind energy by better distributing its benefits and trying to minimize its environmental and social impact. It is preferable to reflect and move forward more calmly than to implant accelerated and disorderly wind, because Galicia is already a great producer of renewable energy. We also have to say that the model of the PP is that of the predation of the territory in conjunction with companies, with large companies, and to the detriment of the general interest, as it clearly shows the case of the former Environmental Adviser, Bea Mato, who less than two years after quitting as advisor came into work in a particular company about which he made important decisions at his advisor's stage, an example of the rotation door of the size of Gloria's Policy. And that's to say very gently, because what happened was more than a rotating door. [[Applause]] And in this context the debate on the momentum of marine wind energy is beginning to open recently, with the support of the three groups here today to reject its deployment in Galicia. But 12 years have passed and we're here again debating the possibility of the deployment of the marine wind turbine in Galicia. I was not 12 years ago, but many of the members of this House did, like Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Rueda and so many others; and perhaps they remember what they discussed 12 years ago, but today it is and we are in a different context of greater awareness about the climate crisis and the need for ecological transition. And you're telling us that the European Union is in favour of the deployment of the marine propeller within its energy transition line. We are also told that the European Parliament has done a study on the impact of marine wind and other renewables on fishing in which a number of recommendations are made, and we are told that there are those who say that marine wind is intensive in terms of personnel and that thousands of jobs could be created in Galicia, which has great potential, and we do not doubt it. We do not doubt the potential of marine wind in Galicia, but we are concerned about the combination of two highly accused features of this Government: One, his manifest disregard for the conservation of the environment, when they have been, for example, 10 years behind the expansion of a Natura Network that occupies less than half the average of the state surface, after that in 2010 they announced their expansion in the Official Journal of Galicia, because they said it was urgent. Urgent in 2010 and they haven't expanded it yet. And secondly, his statement, more than stated, blatant involvement with the energy sector companies, including that rotational door of the former Environmental Adviser, already alluded to a sector company about which he made decisions of the utmost importance when he was a advisor. [[Applause]] And that's why we're open to the deployment of marine propellers in Galicia, but we're presenting an amendment for two purposes: Firstly, strengthen the guarantees for both fisheries and the environment that they will not be affected by the possible deployment of this type of energy. And secondly, that within your competences you promote the implementation in Galicia of industry and business activity associated with marine wind, because you can do this if you haven't done what you've done in the last 11 years: to exercise your competences in industrial policy and promotion of economic activity, which are full and for which you have not only competition, but means and budget. But they have to get wet, never better said; if you want industry to be implanted associated with marine wind energy in Galicia, it's not even strictly necessary for the marine wind to implant itself in Galicia, implantation to which, I repeat, we're open, but it's not strictly necessary to capture industry associated with marine wind. What is essential is that they do industrial policy and align the productive capacities of Galicia, our naval industry and our potential for wind industry with the needs of a emerging sector like that of marine wind. And precisely the former Environmental Adviser, Bea Mato, spoke a couple of months ago about the possibility that the company for which it now works, that of the rotating door, would present a marine wind project that opts for the next generation funds, and would ask the Union less bureaucracy and more agility. A lady who was a counselor three years ago, now asks the Union less bureaucracy from the same company she favored when she was in Galicia. And a few days ago Mr. Conde highlighted the potential of the marine propeller for Galicia and spoke of the possibility of raising funds for the marine propeller, and also spoke of the possibility of creating, as you did, Mr. Tellado, a sea propeller hub in Galicia. By the way, look at how you like hubs, the pole of excellence and all these things; yes, always in fiction and propaganda, because then the realities in Galicia are quite different. [[Applause]] And the problem is that the Next Generation funds won't fall out of the sky or be seduced by the omnipresent official propaganda, but they're going to stop the best projects at the state level in competitive competition regimes. And today we don't know which ones are the ones in the board. [[Murmurs.]] You laugh, but we don't know what the board is, beyond four generals and headlines. Nor in the case of marine wind, if they exist; what we do know is that the Union has created a public-private society to manage projects financed by these funds, a very funny thing too. A public-private society to manage public funds participated in by a private bank. What a laugh, what a laugh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u97	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u98	A private bank managing public funds and a public-private society doing things that are strictly part of the functions of the Igape, a laugh. The question is, Why? Why when they have a flaming second Vice-Presidentship and Council of Economy, Enterprise and Innovation you go and create a public-private society in which they don't even have the majority to encourage future projects to finance with the public next generation funds? For two possible reasons: either because you are truly incompetent or because you want to promote certain interests. Between these two options, I'm left with a third: for both reasons, which is the option -- I say -- which is why I love, but I don't know strictly either. That's why we're worried that all this rustling about the marine wind will remain in nothing but a business for a few like the former environmental adviser, Bea Mato. And in that line we are presenting an amendment, which, if it is not accepted, will have to understand that the PP is willing to implement and windy marine despite fishing and the environment and that it is again not in line to exercise its competences and capacities in economic and industrial policy. So in conclusion and to finish, we are open to assessing the possibility of pushing marine wind in Galicia, but under two premises: that it does not affect fishing or the environment and that it creates wealth and work in Galicia. We will be against implanting marine wind in Galicia if these conditions are not met; if they are met, we will be open to study. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we must begin by saying, gentlemen of the People's Party and also lords of the Socialist Party, that we are deeply concerned and worried about the presentation of this initiative, but also about the modus operandi of the Galician Union especially in recent months, in which, after a apparent silence, Mr Tellado has already confessed what they were doing today, that it is to work behind the industry on projects to finance European funds that this Parliament continues to remain undiscovered and that I imagine that entities like the Galician Fisheries Council will also not know. So, therefore, what we're seeing is that right now they're really taking off the shell. And come here with a disguised green initiative, you said, of goodness I would say, of renewable blue and dialogue, when in fact what is hiding is something quite different. That is why we tabled an amendment based on three principles which we understand from the BNG that should support a united country position on the part of this Parliament, in the face of the obvious offensive to the marine wind deployment in Galicia that is on the part of Europe since the PSOE and Podemos government, and also from energy lobbies. First of all, on the defence of self-government and, therefore, the vigil of the country agreement we took on its day in 2009. Secondly, the need for transparency, because you speak here of a hand that has not tended, of transparency, dialogue and participation with the maritime-fishing sector, because you do not understand that you want to create ad hoc figures and partisans, in addition to following the style of European funds when there are instruments like what I mentioned, such as that Galician Fisheries Council and reference groups in the sector. And thirdly, because, of course, we understand and say it high and clear that we must give absolute political priority to the activity of the sector and to the conservation of the environment by applying the precautionary principle. And you have to wonder why now, why this debate, which is not new, is on the table, but that comes again. Whether it's because of Galicia's need or because of foreign interests. And we have made it clear that it is not enough because of Galicia's need and that it obeys the interests of others. First of all, because there is a European agenda on brutal betting for this technology and which requires very ambitious targets in the short term, within the framework of that energy transition that we have already said on many occasions that for this country is not being either sustainable or fair, and that is not least a change in the model of democratization of generation or access to energy. Secondly, because there is also an economic interest of companies. He lied openly here. Today's technology for spaces as deep as it is, is not developed, they're in pre-market stage, and what's a private sector strategy to finance themselves through public impulse. And, listen, we're not against public impulse or public-private collaboration, but risk and funding are assumed by the public to then benefit 100% private. And, in short, we also want to put on the table today that, as you did here, we have a history and in 2009 this Parliament made a decision that has united us all and all with regard to, and in addition to a previous dialogue with the fishing and seafood sector, not to accept the deployment of wind energy in this country, because not everything is possible in all contexts. That doesn't mean being against technology or renewables, but not everything is possible in all places and in all contexts. And the question is whether there are objective reasons for changing that position. And since BNG we've made it clear that we're not. I want to remember that in his day that agreement had two basic foundations. One, the defense of self-government, which even brought Galician Union to the courts. That basic precept has not changed, today the legal and administrative framework is this, exactly the same. A 2007 decree and an environmental strategic study that Junta and this country took to the courts because it dramatically affected our maritime and fishing sector. And this today is the framework that exists. Another question is whether there's going to be a change or not. Therefore, these two items of discrepancy remain on the table. A milestone that is harmful to our interests and that violates our self-government. So today we understand that, regardless of the fact that, obviously, the nationalist group would like us to have more decision-making capacity on this sector, because, of course, there were at least a few minimums that joined us at least a few minimums that it seems that today they are willing to give up from the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We, of course, think this is not a good news, and it's not a good news, in addition, at a time when we're in a transition, because in the middle of the alarm state MITECO has already taken that public participation into the roadmap for the marine windmill; we don't know that it has come or has stopped approaching the Board, but the Spanish State's intention is to change the framework legislation of 2007, and therefore it's not very well understood to attempt to cook this entry first without knowing what it's going to come after, and also when we still don't know the result of that maritime space management plan and whether it's going to be beneficial to our country. But I want to put it here on the table too that there are false arguments that there are changes in the sector that should make us change our opinion, absolutely false, starting with the economic argument, it is that it does not stand. The People's Party manipulates to an extreme that already says something that doesn't pick up this study of ASIME and that I'm going to leave you to the presidency. ASIME doesn't say that up to 12,000 jobs would be created, it's a lie. They estimate between 1,000 and 5,000, always linked to what wind power is installed, as if we couldn't export; I don't know if all the cars coming out of Citroën we have to buy the Welsh and the Welsh -- which I know, it can be manufactured out -- and today the roadmap in Navantia is that the floating structures go to Cadiz, and some of them do the procession of the caladians. And we also have examples of the dairy accounts in the terrestrial windmill. What economic advantage does the Earth wind have? Never so much terrestrial wind energy has generated our country and never so little employment received in return. We have the ERE of Siemens-Gamesa, relocation, forgiveness; we have these job reductions in Iberdrola, Naturgy, etc. So zero credibility that this is going to be the golden hen for the Galician industrial crisis. [[Applause]] But it is also surprising that the People's Party and the Socialist Party embrace here the same false arguments about technology, because it is false that there is a technological change that allows the deployment in Galicia, today, with security conditions and with compatibility with environmental and productive custody that is key to us. There's wind studies, but there's no marine bed affect studies, for example. [[Applause]] And we also have to say that we can't compare our situation with any of the 69 wind farms in the European Union, because someone who doesn't know about the subject can make a comparison, but the circumstances are completely different, and today's model in the European environment is inapplicable to Galicia because of our physical characteristics. We can't compare to the average distance parameters of the coast, 59 kilometers, and the average depth, 33 meters. They are absolutely impossible to meet here, because under the sea there is no swimming pool that is exactly the same across the planet, there is a reality that is heterogeneous and our country has a continental platform that is morphologically complex and abnormal, which is particularly short and therefore the technology that is now known and practiced would have to be very close to the coast, and that has obvious risks to a sector that, in the same way that Mr. Tellado you spoke of the great potential of the marine windman, I would like this Government to stand by and side with the great potential of our marine and marine sector, because there is no concentration of crafts of productive activity and depending on fishing as ours. [[Applause]] So our productivity in the sea and on earth has no comparison, because it's not only in the sea, it's also in the sea that's on the ground. Because it seems like a lie that you have to come to this hemicycle to say the following, but it is that the generation of electrical energy is not born in that off-shore installation at sea and evaporates and teleports magically to illuminate this hemicycle; that's not so, it has to have a connection, obviously, to the earth and that has an impact on many environmental, visual, etc. terms, not to mention other elements that should concern us, such as trade, as we already have the highest rate of conventional maritime sinality and other kinds of issues. And that's within the framework of an energy model, as much as we've discussed in this legislation, which obeys foreign interests. So for us, the question is clear, it's not an opposition to renewables, it's not an opposition to marine wind energy as a concept, but it's a fact that today we don't have the conditions of material, political, legal, technical, environmental, nor strategic from the point of view of the country to open this door. And, above all, I also have to warn you that we don't trust the People's Party. We don't trust the People's Party, nor can it be the decision of the Central Government; given the background, the Earth's wind is a good example, but we could put others on the table. So we understand that what we're trying to do here today is to introduce a Trojan horse, another more disguised as a dialogue, when it's actually the opposite. We therefore ask that they remain in the consensus that we arrived as a country in 2009, which for us is very important, that they really feel with the affected sectors, with the organizations already recognized, with the forums already formed without looking for traps to the lonely to escape it, that they defend self-government and maintain those consensuss. Because of course today you can start the first of many mistakes that have a negative impact on our country. And this is not a denial position to a given energy source, it's a defense position...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u102	...of the interests of this country, of the Greeks and of the Greeks, in front of the great energy lobby. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u103	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u104	Thank you, President. In fact, I think I should have told you, Mr. Arunguena, that our intention was to accept your amendment to try to foster a different climate, and go forward that our intention is to accept the amendment of the Socialist Party. We believe that it is in the same direction as the feeling of the initiative and therefore we believe it is important that the parties that have country vision still make efforts on important issues. Mr. Arunguena, our abstention from the Climate Change Act, you know why it was, it was because of the impact on that marine-industry chain industry that we didn't agree with, and we said it perfectly. So I would ask you not to deceive anyone; our opposition to the Climate Change Act is because it puts many jobs in the sea transformation industry at risk. On the wind model, look, Mr. Arangüena, wind promoters can present all the projects that give them the will, but who is to give permission either to the Greek Government or to the Government of Spain; and the Greek Government does what it does is to approve only the projects that comply with the regulations of the locations referred to in the friendly Greek wind plan with the natural environment. Try this, go to today's press: "The Board brakes 35 projects of wind farms designed for prohibited areas," there it is. So in Galicia we defend an orderly development of wind energy through projects that contain the highest technical, legal and environmental guarantees. And the marine wind, look, we've been defending the marine wind since 2015, when some laugh at us, when we reopened the old Astano betting for the marine wind, the truth is that it gave employment to people who were unemployed and got the first industrial diversification of the district of Ferrolterra. So, of course, we believe in the marine wind; what's pretty amazing is to be building elements of marine wind and forbidding in your own waters the marine wind, which is what the Galego Nationalist Block wants. Pretty unbelievable. But the truth is, you're the same ones that when we started off with the marine windman to open the old Astano you laughed at saying that it was welding tubes, and that didn't give you a quality job. Go to Ferrol and tell him if anyone believes them. We accept the amendment of the Socialist Party; in any case, Mr Arangüena, energy policy is the sole competence of the State, and the energy policy of the Socialist Government, erratic, calamitous, conditions Galician industrial policy and conditions the continuity of many jobs. I'm saying that they intend to confuse themselves with that. Look, the off-shore windman in our surroundings: 40% of the European Union's capacity is installed in the United Kingdom, 31% in Germany and the rest is installed in Norway, France in Italy, Holland, Belgium, Denmark, Portugal and Greece. I admire the self-esteem of the 19 members of the Galician Nationalist Block who believe they know more than the governments of all these countries and that the experts from all those countries, and that they have such a sketchy vision of Galicia that they deny Galicia what Galicia could probably do better than all those countries. There's a funny view of the country you've got! You're the immobilitors, they want nothing to change, and it's because from 2009 until 2021 they've changed a lot. Of course, the technology of marine wind has advanced a lot and knowledge, but you live in Galicia's skyrocketing of Greek nationalism and are unable to open up to new knowledge and new opportunities. You're the best representatives of the compounded Galicia, who believe others can but not Galicia. We believe that Galicia can and Galicia must, because there is an opportunity for work and because not all Greeks can be Members for 20 years in this autonomic Parliament. So why deny Galicia the opportunities that other territories have? What is the energy model of Mrs. Pontón's Galego Nationalist Block? We know what their country model is, which is the confrontation of the Basque Country, is the model of cultural and linguistic imposition, is the model of confrontation and of Catalonia's pardons. What is the energy model? The energy model is to be against everything, to be against traditional energy industries, settled in Galicia that did a lot of work, and also to be against renewable energies and to study a more sustainable model change. You're blocking Galicia's doors to the future, you're a party anchored in the past, you're immobilist by definition, you're against everything, you're against Europe, you're against the Constitution and you're against the autonomy statute and the opportunities that we Galicia is not willing to deny. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u105	Thank you. Do you accept the Block Amendment? Not that of the Block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not that of the Block. Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Noa Presas. Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the Parliament Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Don Noa Presas Bergantinos and Don Ramon Fernández Alfonzo, on the impetus by the Galician Council for the development and adoption of a new sectoral wind plan for Galicia. After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Aranguena. The amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block is not accepted. The motion for a non-law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Arangüena Fernández and four other Members, on the design and development of a plan for the promotion and economic reactivation of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,13; votes against, 42; abstentions,18. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da Marina Ortega. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Ms Marina Ortega Otero and Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in the area of protection and protection of minors, as well as on the development of a specific plan to combat child poverty in Galicia. After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and to the People's Parliamentary Group are not accepted. Proposal for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Xosé Luis Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in respect of the intention of the Central Government to establish fees on highways of state ownership. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. I'm sorry. Ah!, ask the word of Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u106	We call for a point-by-point vote, as expressed in the speech, separately point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u107	Do you agree, Mr. Puy, to separate point 3? He doesn't accept it. So only the People's Parliamentary Group's self-amendment is accepted. Proposal for a non-law of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Maria Guadalupe Murillo Solis and five other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council to demand from the Central Government that the return of the EVI in November should be extended to all Greek municipalities and deputies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is accepted and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia is not accepted. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to promote and dynamize the marine wind sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. They've finished voting on non-law proposals here and we're still on the agenda. There are two changes, which we are now going to make up for the questions. Change in agenda development Question by La Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions, detailed by provinces, of the Galician Union in which the 105 million euros of the investment plan collected within the strategic plan Xacobeo 2021 You have the floor to Mrs. Gallego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u108	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Vice President first. Tourism is one of the sectors most affected by the health crisis, as we all know, and after a very complicated year, with zero activity in some periods, employers and professionals are confident that Xacobeo 2021-2022 will help reactivate this sector. However, the screes and the consequent limitations on mobility were the major concern of the tourism sector, but now the great concern is the uncertainty of not knowing when people coming to visit Galicia will begin to arrive. In this complex socio-economic situation, we believe it is appropriate to follow up on the activities and budgets of the Xacobeo 2021-2022. The Galician Board has drawn up the Xacobeo 2021 Strategic Plan and within this plan there is a cross-sectional axis that collects a plan of maintenance and embellishment of the roads and its surroundings, a plan of reform and expansion of the shelters and a plan of signage of the Santiago Way. Within this strategic plan of Xacobeo 2021 there is an investment plan with an economic allocation of 105 million euros. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are calling for greater democratic control over the actions of the Galician Union on Jacobean matters this year. The Xacobeo 2021 Strategic Plan failed to meet its objectives, because in our parliamentary group we have many demands, many demands from the city halls of road improvements and construction and shelter reforms. The antiques of pilgrims' and pilgrims' shelters make it necessary significant investments for their adequacy to all tourists who visit our land, and most of all when we are in a Jacobean year. There are many public hostels that belong to the Galician Union and that need investments and improvements in their facilities, such as the Arca hostel in Pino, which we were there in September and we were able to check on site the bad facilities and, above all, it's not accessible. You announced a few months ago that you were going to do works; let's hope they start soon, because today they still don't have the definitive adjudication of these works, and this year I think they won't be finished. Unless they have another year, Jacob so they can finish it. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for updated and continued information on what is being done with Xacobeo 2021-2022. Mr First Vice-President, what were the actions of the Galician Council for provinces where the €105 million of the investment plan collected from the Xacobeo 2021 strategic plan was invested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u109	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you very much, Mrs. Gallego, for the question, sincerely, it is very good and the Government welcomes that you want to do a democratic control, as you call it, of what is being done since the Council of Galicia, as is our obligation and above all our interest, rather the interest of Galicia, to prepare the Xacobeo where we are already and that I hope, and I believe that it is already doing so, that it will start from now on, once it has lifted the perimeters and many of the medical impediments that prevent many of the things that are identified and that are part of the Way. And I welcome your question because it's January 15th and at that moment you wanted to know how much effort you were doing and I suppose what you were going to do on the board of Galicia. There in January we could already tell him, and so I'm going to reply because we already had the board budgets approved at that time, even though you were bringing the question now: 85.8 million euros that are running. Most of what I have to tell you is not anymore, because the strategic plan for investments is practically executed, it's investments, sorry, it's amounts not only for investments, but an important part of them, which would already be part of -- if you want to call it this -- a new strategic plan or a continuation of the strategic plan executed. At that moment, and that's what I'd like to complete the question, we lacked knowledge of the State's involvement. In the second part I'll try to give you details of the investments that have been made, by provinces it's complicated, at least in such a short time, but yes, of course, I'll answer. I'd like to stop now, because I think it's to complete what all the administrations are trying to do, the state effort. They talked to us at that time, we asked and they didn't say anything, they didn't talk to us about anything, which is going to be the state's effort as far as Jacob is concerned. We were told that there was a national tourist product, the star product, a very important investment preparing for Xacobeo. Months have passed and nothing was known. We asked again, and they said that they were in it, we just asked again on the occasion of Fitur, you were there, and you saw that it was I think, of course, that everything that's going to happen touristly in this country this year was what called the most attention, and we were told that they're still working on it and today we don't know anything. Absolutely nothing. So, I thank you for this question, and I really appreciate your presence, and Mr. Caballero's, who has been three days ago, also make a little effort to see if we can convert these good wishes that the Government and the Minister of Tourism always has with respect to the Xacobeo in facts to make investments and to continue doing these actions that you demand from the Council of Galicia. It would be very good, uh, and with that we could complete many of the demands that follow us, after fulfilling the investment plan the municipalities. Anyway, I'm going to tell you one thing, in your explanatory statement it says that one of the demands of the Town Councils is the signaling of Santiago's Way. Having your relationship with the mayor and with the Vigo Town Hall, and with the Vigo City Government, which tells me about signaling the roads as one of the city councils' demands is to take the Xacobeo very little seriously; and I ask you that the Xacobeo -- I really ask you to take it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u111	Thank you, your time is up. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u112	Thank you, President. First Vice-President, speak of the State and Vigo, and the question? Because you didn't answer any of the questions. I understand you're worried, and especially that you're worried about Vigo, I understand, but please answer the question, please. [[Applause]] We want to have accurate information about the 105 million investment plan. Please, can you tell us what this money was invested in? This information I don't think it's useful for me or the Greeks and the Greeks. A bit of rigor, isn't it? It's a lot of money, a little bit of rigor. Tell us what these 105 million are investing in, that these 105 million euros were invested in. Please, I just don't know why you owe so much secrecy to everything that has to do with James. I really don't know what that secretism is. Where are you investing the budget items that are destined for Xacobeo? Where are those games? What do they invest in? And, look, the Xacobeo 2021 Strategic Plan has not met its objectives, because we have many demands for improvements such as Santiago's roads in the villages of the Road, I will Forcare, Vilaboa, Valga, Mos, Ames, etc., etc. Furthermore, from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group we want to make a claim, we believe that the Tourism Council must review all public shelters in our community and make a real investment so that they are accessible and practical, so as not to discriminate against people with reduced mobility. We've been asked for several associations of people with reduced mobility. They have to do these works so that they are actually shelters to those who can go to all people. For example, I told you about Pino, but there are other examples, I'm going to put one, the Luiso hostel, between Triacastela and Samos, which is a hostel that's not accessible either; you have a video that wants it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u113	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up. Thank you, thank you. The question is closed, first Vice-President and President-in-Office of Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, forgive me for contradicting you; I believe that to the Greeks they are interested in knowing whether the Government of Spain, and therefore also its Government, has some kind of interest, beyond good words, in getting involved in the most important tourist event that Spain is going to have. Of course it's of interest. And it's also of interest to know that we asked him many times and that today, you said less badly that we have... less bad for that, too, that we have one more year of Xacobeo when it's consumed almost half of the first year of the beginning and planned of the Xacobeo and we still don't know anything at all. I think this is of interest to you, you won't be interested, and that's why when you brought an initiative to this House so that you'd be asked for this implication over time, uh, without time it wasn't, so they'd planned and programme, as we're doing, and told us how they'd collaborate, you didn't vote in favour. Neither you nor anyone in your group, and probably because they don't have the strength there to say that we have to get wet here, that we're going to thank everyone. Of course it's of interest, of course it's of interest. Just as it is of interest to know why we are not able to signal Vigo, it is the only European city that crosses a Way, who is lucky to cross a Way, so the pilgrims are lost simply by the whim of a lord who rules there and who does not want it because he doesn't like the Jacobean. He has that relationship of hatred with Jacob that no one understands and that prevents and puts in a ridiculous situation the paths of Jacob everywhere. Having said this, what you ask me, I think it's so important this as investments that I don't have any problem in written passes, which I suppose is what you'll expect if you expect a breakdown by provinces of an amount that exceeds 100 million euros. But I'm telling you right now in global quantities and what's given me time here. And by the way, don't confuse what's programmed, and therefore executed, with more demands than you'll have to put into other plans, because at least this government tries to be serious and when you program and run the program then there are other things going on. You ask me things that were not in the plan and that are not executed, because probably there will be things that are yes and things that are not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now, what's in the plan is all executed. That said, Santiago Road Signal Plan, 6.2 million euros, executed; in Vigo, no, not a euro. That's right, bought, put there in a warehouse, waiting for the goat to pass or hate to happen and we can put it on. Road maintenance plan, 15.6 million euros. Maintenance, there are several paths -- as you know --, if you want me to give you the breakdown that is being done -- even for tramos we have fortunately -- executed. A second phase remains a 3.7 million of the road and its outline; it was now, at the Council of the Union, an agreement with the Juana de Vega Foundation to continue doing this. Plan to reform and expand the hostel network, EUR 7.2 million. Of course there are a lot of houses made, everyone on the plan, and you know in the provinces where they are, they're all executed. Besides, almost 4 million euros right now in running shelters, included among them, Mrs. Gallego, the Pino hostel you were naming. You know that these works now will simply have to condition the influx of pilgrims, but those works are bidden and executed and were not in this strategic plan. Plan of improvement of the Monte do Gozo, inaugurated the other day with the presence of the mayor of Santiago, 5.2 million euros. Tourism infrastructure, road signs, tourist resources, etc., agreements with municipalities of all political colors, EUR 10 million. The opening of San Martiño Pinario and more restoration works, 625,000 euros. Conservation and restoration derived from the master plan of the set [...]...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u116	...6.97 million executed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u117	Time's up, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u118	Security [...] landscape, 14 million [...]...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u119	They're already covered in their five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u120	Plan of bike investments on the Road...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u121	Time's up, Mr. Rueda. Time's up! [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, you don't have the word anymore. It's over. [[Applause]] Question by Maria Elena Candia López and nineteen other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the German Government in relation to the roadmap to be followed by the various public administrations in order to ensure the maintenance of employment and production in ENCE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u122	Question by Mr Miguel Santos of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Vice President first. And thank you very much for being here to be able to respond to such an important issue for the Greeks and for the Galician Union as is the employment and maintenance of our companies. Among the most important industries in Galicia we have the factory of Ence in Pontevedra, a reference company in Europe in the cellulose sector and which is an engine of growth and prosperity for all of Galicia. Its activity, as well as the development that it mobilizes, has important repercussions in terms of employment, wealth creation, territorial development and social contribution. This industry maintains more than 5,100 jobs, reaches around 460 million euros a year, and is the main player in the forest market, providing a vertebration of the territory from which thousands of families benefit. Of the 5,100 jobs mentioned above, 400 belong to the fixed personnel of the company; 2,700 contractors in the industrial, logistics and transport area; and more than 2,100 to the Greek forest sector. As for the forest sector, Ence is a key actor in Galicia, managing over 10,000 hectares in our community and also as a customer of the main local producers. In addition, it is a fundamental company for the direct employment of many neighbors, not only of the city of Pontevedra, but also of the entire surroundings, such as the municipalities of Marín, Poio, Sanxenxo or the entire region of Morrazo, and having also an paramount and fundamental importance in the development of the activity of the port of Marín. It is known by all the persecution that since the BNG and the Socialist Party have about this company, insisting for many years on the closure of the Lourizán factory, and without providing alternatives to the said closure and not worrying at all what can happen to the thousands of workers and families who depend on it. The Socialist Party, once it reaches the Government of Spain, its first step forward in order to facilitate the closure of this company is to settle for the price of granting the extension of Ence. Not being enough, the Socialist Party -- with the support of the BNG -- insisted on canceling the extension legally granted to Ence with the new Climate Change Act, generating uncertainty and legal insecurity for all companies in the marine industry chain. And with all these background and the mobilisation and pressure made by the workers of the company in the face of the danger of the continuity of their jobs, the minister of the Ecological Transition, Mrs. Teresa Rivera, summoned a dialogue table to all the parties involved in this process. That meeting took place in Madrid more than a month ago, specifically on April 21st. And for all this we wanted to know, in the view of the Government of Greece, what should be the roadmap to follow by the different public administrations in order to ensure the maintenance of employment and production in Ence as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u124	Thank you, Mr. Santos. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. Santos Costa, indeed -- no need, you explained it in the statement of your question -- remember what Ence means. We always talk about Galicia and it means a lot to Galicia, but I'm going to talk about it -- because, besides, as I live there, I think I know it pretty well, just like other Members who are in this House -- what it means to Pontevedra's direct impacts. I'm saying this because when you talk about moving site industries, you have to see what they're producing in the place where they're located: 400 direct jobs, 250 auxiliary companies working around, lots of Pontevedra and its area, and nearly 300 trucks entering and leaving the factory. And all this at a time when industries are so in question or so in danger in many places, I think they're figures that have to be said and taken into account. Not to mention the thousands of forest producers, small families that throughout Galicia and also around Pontevedra depend directly on Ence. Well, you said that too, what's the situation? There is an appeal filed by the Council of Pontevedra, an extension of the General Administration of the State and a clear danger of the permanence of all this economic wealth and wealth of jobs in the district of Pontevedra. That's what's happening! That's what there is and every time we say it, at last, those who are provoking all this are unable to say what's the alternative for all this to be kept. Because here what we're talking about is about the jobs and the wealth that you create; and therefore, if you don't want to believe who's doing it today, which is Ence, if you want us to finally be like a kind of territory where raw materials are extracted because somewhere else logically you're going to do what you stopped doing on Ence. If we have to be a kind of place where only raw materials are extracted and added value is given elsewhere, you'll have to ask where those alternatives are. And so I'm not going to insist on the already known, I'm not going to insist on the last-minute rally that the Government had to do after the cry of all political forces, at least the political forces with a little head. Of course, not the Socialist Party and the Block at the last hour, and forced, when it had to go back to the Government and recognize that that Law of Climate Change, as it was about the retroactivity of industries in public domain placement, would assume a sword of permanent Damocles, when not the disappearance of many companies. Not only is it, it's also, but it's a lot of companies that are creating wealth right now in Galicia. Well, I'm saying this to prove the consistency of government procedures that are probably not conscious, it has no other explanation, than it will cause. You know, and I was also saying that, and in the reply, I'm going to reply to you, as is now the whole process that began the Ministry of Ecological Transition with the complicity of the Pontevedra Council to go where we don't know; in my opinion nowhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u126	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mr. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, for your reply and your concern about wanting to ensure the maintenance of employment and production in Ence at such a delicate moment as to the economic crisis situation we are suffering. The truth is, after the dialogue table held more than a month ago by the various agents and public administrations involved in this conflict generated by the Government of the State, because there were different statements and reactions about it. The Minister of Ecological Transition wants Ence to leave the river and now opens up the possibility of having European funds to look for an alternative location, but he wants to move the problem to the rest of the agents and administrations, when it is the ministry itself that creates this whole conflict. The company says it goes to the meeting for social responsibility, but insists that the possible alternatives studied for a new location to date are technically and economically unfeasible, insisting on its extension and defending its own location in Lourizán. The Council of Pontevedra says it came out of courtesy and insists on closing the company as soon as possible, and simply alluding to that it has no competence to solve anything. The factory's business committee, urging that there be continuous dialogue between all sides; the office's business committee saying that the dialogue table was simply an act of propaganda from the ministry and that the so-called ministry throws balloons out and proposes nothing, and finally, the Galician board defending the jobs and understanding that now -- as I say -- is not the time for the closure of the factory in this current context of economic crisis. The only thing that's right in all this -- as you said, Mr. Vice-President -- is that the appeal of the Pontevedra Council and the central government's exploration is clear that it is the Government of the State itself that has to address this unique and exclusively created problem by them. So, Vice-President, we'd like to know if you're aware of any progress by the Ministry of Ecological Transition in looking for some alternative, an alternative location as well. And to know the position of the German Government [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u128	Thank you, Mr. Santos. The question is closed, first Vice-President and President-in-Office of Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u129	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Santos, no, if you'll excuse me, it's not just the Government -- that of course also -- the Central Government, also the Council of Pontevedra. You yourself said that, it seems incredible, but it is that this resource causes a real danger that all these jobs can be lost, then at a meeting that is said to be -- then it's seen that it's not -- to try to solve it and simply access it by courtesy; I cause the problem, to see if others solve it. And this is the situation and this is what we need to know. I'm saying this because I think the question is very timely because more than a month after that meeting where those who caused the problem tried to create the false sense that it was in the way of solution. I didn't know who was going to solve it, but that it was in the process of solving and that those directly affected who could lose their jobs -- so many affected families very directly and those who were not given an alternative -- that they were calm because someone is working on the solution. Well, what was said there -- and you have to make it clear and leave any doubt away -- is that the central government was going to look for a solution, because it talked about European funds. And then, as those who have -- they've made it clear to us -- the order and command over European funds, because they would have to give us some solution. And the Pontevedra Town Hall, which I suppose you'll mind if you suddenly lose all your jobs, I suppose you'll mind being on that solution and seeing what the alternative is, a real alternative. Look at the workers in your face and say, "Hey, don't worry because even if it's going to be on your way because we've got a solution for you, you're going to be able to keep these quality jobs here in your home, in your area, you're not going to have to emigrate." No, no, they're going to the meeting out of courtesy and they're just saying to see if anyone can fix it. Very well, for here we are waiting for the Galician Union, which has not caused this problem at all. The Galician Union clearly says that the factory is creating jobs where it is located right now and that, therefore, it has to continue to create them. And today, with the current picture, another solution is implantable, it will say that it will help the one who caused the problem and will have to find a solution. And, therefore, if the solution were European funds, the solution was for someone to worry about looking for that alternative, there will be the Galician Union to help those who decide that we can no longer create wealth where the factory is and tell us how the alternative will be articulate. And there will be the Galician Union helping, doing as much as possible, helping you to move. But the month and half passed and those who had to move, those who to get the workers' pressure out of it called that paripe meeting, they're not doing anything. And you have to know this, those who throw out the factory and the wealth of their place and those who said they were going to look for a solution are not doing anything. And that's what the workers and all around Pontevedra have to know, that the days pass, and here there's an escapism and a discharge of responsibilities and one saying that if they bother those who are working, we go out with ours and we're not doing anything at all. This has to be known, the days pass and the workers have no choice; they are sure that those who want them to go will end up throwing them away, but they're doing nothing to find them an alternative and that their families can continue to live dignifiedly as they were doing up to now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u131	You have to know, and I'm going to say it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u132	Thank you. We continue with the agenda item 5, interpellations. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the expansion of the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia Mr Bará has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u133	Good morning. What's wrong with the Popular Party in Pontevedra, who has to come... How bad is the Popular Party in Pontevedra, who has to come here asking a question to fuck with the Council of Pontevedra! I don't know if they're even more worried and nervous after the poll that went out at the weekend, but, of course, there they go wrong, there they go wrong. [[Applause]] And, of course, you're absolutely transparent, not hiding anything. We asked them about the expansion of the Natura Network, and instead of looking at the environmental advisor, the Industry Councillor comes, which makes it clear to us who's on the Natura Network of Galicia, in whose hands he is. The fox taking care of the chicken, Mr. Conde. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Environmental Demolition Counsellor, I take the name of my comrade Noa Presas, who comes quite the case, because his Government is that of the parks, but not that of the natural parks, his Government is that of the wind farms. And theirs is the interests of large energy companies, not the protection of biodiversity, not the protection of life and the places where people live. And it has already been made clear to you that Mr. Feshoo spoke out when he received the representative of a Chinese public company -- because you are worried about public companies but Welsh, but the Chinese aren't, and the Norwegians aren't, either -- and came here to assess the depredation that this company is carrying out in the Roncudo promontory, assaulting a space on the Nature Network, attacking wetlands, as you can see in these photographs, Mr. Conde. That's happening. The same public Chinese company that is threatening the Traba Gateway Penedos, which are a protected space, a protected landscape, protected by law. By the way, I'm asking you, or I'm sending you the message to the Environmental Advisor, who is under his tutelage, so you see, when they're going to make the plan for managing protected landscapes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Marta Novoa changes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u134	No, no, quiet. Don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u135	Of course, of course, you've got balls, you have patents to do what you want, and you don't. You have to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u136	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u137	And the fine skin has to be left at home, you have to listen, and more elephant skin or hippopotamus skin, which you have to defend from crocodiles. And here you have to come listening to the crocodiles as well. [[Applause]] So, of course, you do this, and you, Mr. Count, practice wonder after green marketing. The green marketing, the greenwashing, the green washing the ecoposture, but this is all decorated, it's pure makeup. And you know what happens to makeup? That when it's hot or when it rains a lot, it's like Mr. Giuliani's tinnitus. This is what happens to this kind of policy, because you, Mr. Conde, are doing 3D environmental policy, in 3D. You know what 3D is? 3D is destruction, deprotection and depredation. This is the 3D of Galicia's environmental policies. [[Applause]] And I'll explain. First question, threatened species. Endangered species are in Galicia 201, since the Union is a threat to threatened species. Because it turns out that of the 201 species on that list we only have a conservation or protection plan of 3, of 3 of 201. But the problem is not that, the problem is that there have been 45 protection and conservation plans of these species since 2009 and they are stored in a drawer for Greek society, for the scientific world, for the world of research. And it cost, Mr. Conde, €566,000. This is called public funds dispensation. They're locked in a drawer for Greek society, for the scientific world, but not for some companies that have leaps to access those documents as well. Like the Greenalia company, which through not the spin doors, the spin portals, had access to these studies, to studies that are not of public knowledge. This, if it's not prevarication, is very close. And, of course, we want explanations, we want responsibilities, we want to take steps to explain and to clear up responsibilities in such a serious case as this one, which has been denounced this weekend by the Addega Association. Second question, second file X of environmental demolition San Caetano. San Caetano and San Lázaro too, because they also have a terminal there. The inventory of Galician wetlands, inventory of wetlands where we have 1,131 wetlands that should be protected and are absolutely abandoned by this environmental demolition policy. And here comes the Deputy Director of Conservation of Natural Spaces saying that that means nothing, being in inventory means nothing, that they have no protection. When do they plan to protect these wetlands, more than 751 that are beyond any protection and that are fundamental to biodiversity? And thirdly, the ultimate goal is already the theme of the Nature Network, the expansion of the Nature Network. You paralysed the enlargement of the Natura Network in 2008 and, when you arrived at the Government, you announced a new enlargement of the Natura Network. I have here a press headline that says, "15 percent of the territory in Galicia will be on Natura Network in 2012. " We are currently the Pechacances, the last community in the state to protect the Natura Network, we are at 12%, we do not reach 12%, when the state average is 27%, the European average is at 18%. Well, it turns out that you also announce the expansion of the Natura Network, they publish it in the CEO, they say it's a mandate of the European Union, they say it's urgent to do so, that we need to protect these spaces, and not just this, but they approve an additional fifth of the wind sector law that literally says the following. That is, it comes into force on 1 January 2012. It says: "The announcement of the public exhibition of the proposed extension of the area of Natura 2000 will in itself determine the suspension of the procedure for the authorisation of wind farms located in whole or in part in the territorial area object of enlargement". That is to say, paralysing the wind farms provided for in the areas of enlargement of the Natura Network. And what did you do after you approved this in the 2011 Budget Act? Because they've closed down 7 keys the expansion of the Natura Network to give free bar to the wind farms, because this is their policy of 3D: destruction, depredation, degradation of the territory. Many habitats and species are threatened and must be protected by the European Commission, because they are spaces of particular interest, of priority interest. I'm talking about the Sor River, the Brañas do Deo, the Brañas do Xallas, the Serra da Cave da Serpe, the Serra do Suido, the Serra da Groba, the Serra da Fiña da Lastra, the Macizo Central, Carnota-Monte Pindo, the Costa da Morte, the Serra do Gistoral, where there are wind parks projects. Can you tell me how many wind farms there are in these planned areas of enlargement of the Natura Network that you paralyze in the meantime to favor the interests of these companies? And, of course, now they don't come to us with stories of a miniature of the Natura Network that they approved by the back door the other day with an amendment in voice, because they knew that this debate would come to this plenary and they wanted, let's say, to do a face wash, a wash in green again, when you brought here and approved in 2017, 4 years in June, a proposal for enlargement of the Natura Network that was once again kept in a drawer because you had to give it forward, you had to follow the free bar to process the wind farms. And so we are. But be clear to them, be clear to them, and it's no threat. In any case, it's a warning, it's a warning, that we're going to face this predatory and spousal model, we're going to face it by land, by sea and air, especially by air, because this goes from wind, it goes from air mainly, we're going to face it in institutions, in parliaments, we're going to take it to the European Commission; we're also going to be on the streets together with hundreds and thousands of people who are mobilising, who are organizing themselves, who are presenting claims, who are taking deals to the full of all the colors they want. It's not a threat, it's a warning that they're also telling them the municipalities where you rule, on Curtis, on Lalin, on the Road, on Sardinia-Cotobade, on Oia, on all these municipalities and many others are telling them that they don't; renewables yes, but not so. What's more necessary for them to know what's going on? There's a great social conflict in Galicia around this issue, because technology has changed, the airlines are much bigger, the invasion of the territory is much bigger, also the territory where people live and work and want to develop their life plan. [[Applause]] I told you yesterday my companion at Xanceda House, which is an example of a book what you're doing. Annihilate, root out what productive and rural development projects are in this country. Not like that. So there's this huge mobilization to stop them from putting their feet on these amazing projects and because people want to live on the earth and also protect the environment, water, biodiversity, landscapes. And just as they announced today in this distracting maneuver, this paralysing of 35 projects, have the courage to stop all the wind farms, all those that are processing the board, those that are processing the board that raid spaces, habitats that must be protected, that raid places where people want to live and work, where there are activities that are incompatible with those wind projects. And, Counselor, look, who better explained it, as always, because in these things an image worth more than a thousand words, was the Carrabouxo, with this cartoon of an area of very high ecological value, area of very high ecological value that you intend to convert into areas of very high wind value. Not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u138	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, we note this morning that, indeed, the Nationalist Block Galego continues to live in the 3D of virtual reality. Surely it would be a good exercise to return to reality, to the reality of Galicia, to the reality of our surroundings, to the reality of our economy and to the reality and to the defence of the general interests of the Greeks. And I'm sorry that you again take this rostrum as if it were a theatre and don't come here to really talk rigorously and heeding the current legislation and, therefore, that work that we are developing since the Galician Union with an unbreakable commitment to protection, conservation and improvement of the environment and our natural heritage. And we don't make any distinctions, but just try to actually make that commitment to environmental protection a reality. We're betting, even though you're trying to move a reality into 3 dimensions completely away from the reality of the Greeks, we're pushing a model of development of guaranteed and orderly renewable energies. These are two words that have been done in the work that we are developing and, above all, not only from an administrative point of view, but also from a legal point of view. As you know, we have legislation in Galicia of natural heritage and biodiversity that gives priority to environmental protection over territorial and urban management. It would be good if I reviewed Law 5/2019, and therefore to know that this is guaranteed by law. And it also states that the protection that develops, the actions that the Administration itself performs, has to develop interventions that can protect any kind of natural heritage or biodiversity impact. Surely if he stopped in the content of the law, he wouldn't say all that sort of dissemble he moved in his intervention. Because the BNG knows perfectly well, and so we have repeatedly explained it to him from both the Economic Council and the Environmental Council; I understand that you are not accustomed to having in a Government a unique criterion of government and that therefore we can move that coordination to all our actions, but yes, this Government works with one voice and, therefore, we are making it compatible, Mr Bará, economic activity and job creation with the preservation of the environment, because that is the responsibility we have as Government. [[Applause]] But don't worry, and I repeat it to those who want to hear, all wind projects are subject to an adequate assessment of their impacts and impacts in accordance with the provisions of the applicable environmental assessment legislation. All wind farms have to overcome an ordinary environmental assessment, which is the most demanding from the point of view of state legislation. And, therefore, there is absolute assurance that a study of all impacts will be carried out. In addition, public participation is guaranteed and, as I said, all of the possible effects can be assessed on natural and landscaped value so that they can be determined on objective grounds whether they are compatible or not. You, from the Galego Nationalist Block, as you consider yourself to be the property of truth, believe that when you process an wind park automatically you're already judging whether you're actually going to comply with the regulations. And I'm sorry that once again you question the public service permanently. They should be ashamed to highlight and doubt the work of public officials in the development of their activities. In any case, what this Government can guarantee is that no project that does not contain all guarantees from a technical point of view, from a legal point of view and, of course, from an environmental point of view. As far as the Natura Network is concerned, I think it should exercise prudence, not rigour, because that is unfortunately not what you usually move, but rather prudentness. You know that Galicia has declared 100% of all LICs as special conservation areas, 100%, which, as you also know, does not occur in other autonomous communities. And the European Commission itself has moved that all the conditions laid down from the point of view of the requirements linked to the Natura Network should be met. Therefore, we are actually addressing, we will address a process of enlargement of the Natura Network based on this 100% compliance of all LICs on the Natura 2000 Network and, therefore, we will not only develop this enlargement and revision of the Natura 2000 Network, but also approve the different management and conservation plans. So, Mr Bará, I believe that the Galego Nationalist Block, for the sake of this compatibility, from an economic point of view and from an environmental point of view, should leave that campaign for the criminalization of the wind sector, the criminalization of renewable energies and the abandonment of that policy of not Galicia, because, honestly, it does not benefit the Greeks or, of course, that necessary balance between economic development and defence from the point of view of our heritage, both cultural and natural. You go ahead with your permanent parallel trial, for what you've already said the ex ante sentence, before you start the processing you've already sentenced what the regulations do and what you don't, of course, hear no one anymore, and of course not the officials of both the Autonomic Administration and the General Administration of the State. And of course, the only thing you're trying to move is that Galicia is simply guilty, because you want to have a role in the development of renewable energies. I regret that vocation of permanent isolation that has the Galego Nationalist Block with regard to our country. Perhaps that is why they did not support the agreement adopted recently in this Parliament; they did not even support the completion of the work for the extension and revision of the Natura 2000 network. You're always with Galicia not, always with development and job creation not. I think, Mr Bará, if we talk about reality, the reality is that this government has not put any new wind farms into operation in spaces of Natura Network since 2009. That's the data, that's reality, and so you probably have a feeling of guilt because, when you were in the bipartite, actually, the Nationalist Block of Wales authorized the exploitation of six parks with more than 177 megawatts in spaces of special protection that were Nature's Park. That's your curriculum, that's your history, and I insist that you should not use this Parliament to wash your conscience, which in this case is a bad conscience. I regret that once again the environment is used by the Galego Nationalist Block as an excuse to paralyze any opportunity for economic development and wind development in Galicia, even before assessing and determining the possible viability or compatibility with the normative framework of any type of project. The real reason, Mr Bará, for their crusade is that they intend to shut down the industry, and that they want to shut down the potential for the development of employment creation of the wind sector itself of renewable energy. I regret that this is still so, and that you are denying Galicia those possibilities of development. They should certainly reflect on their position and, of course, we have a clear model and a transparent model: compatibility of economic activity with the protection of the environment and our cultural heritage. I think that's the way, and we're certainly developing absolutely guaranteed work, with an orderly development of the wind sector, and marking that priority, which is the protection of the environment and its compatibility with economic activity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President. ...Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u141	Mr. Count, you intend to pass 130 dromedaries through the eye of a needle and that's materially impossible. No, no, no. We won't let them, and they won't let them, and they won't allow their municipalities. Do you want me to read the plenary agreement of the Lalín Town Hall, which is a true varapau to the wind politics of the Galician Union? I can pass it if you need it. Look, you say it's a guaranteed, ordered model that we want to criminalize. I want to explain to you what the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia says about the policy of Gounta de Galicia, so that you do not think it is BNG or TSX, see, says: "Despite the time of normative development and being Galicia a pioneer community in the electrical use of wind energy, there is still a great legal vacuum in environmental matters in which energy companies are supported to carry out their projects, which is worse when society does not have channels for participation in the development of renewables, being relegated to a passive role of affected, in the face of an active role of aggressors and beneficiaries of companies or the administration". I mean, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia calls you and the aggressors. What else do we have to say? That's what the High Court says. It's not us. Let's see if they're clear. They are violating all Community legislation and because of all directives. That's why they're forcing people to move, to take intensive engineering courses, administrative law, biology, everything, in order to be able to deal with these projects, which are also absolutely lacking transparency. Because you gave everything, all power to companies and turned this into a right of eternity and a kind of West Far West, West Wild, where companies use all kinds of abuse and pre-power to pass over people. And, of course, the problem is that we have an absolutely obsolete wind plan, which is from the year 2001, in the latest version, and technology has changed, the dimensions of the air conditioners have changed, it has nothing to do with, it's almost three times as much as it had at those times. So a distance of 500 meters to inhabited nuclei has no reason to be right now, and you're still wrong about that kind of politics. And, look, the expansion of the Natura Network, there are up to 35 wind farms planned for the expansion of the Natura Network in 2012. I have here a study by the Rebinxe collective, with its own means, because the Administration doesn't. And I'm going to tell you what's the zero kilometer in this matter, which is the Swiss saw, there are eleven wind farms in processing in the area that should be protected under a Natura Network in the Swedish saw, and you're doing the plane, looking the other way and protecting the interests of big companies. This is the reality. And who banned, prevented the development of wind farms on the Natura Network was the BNG government in the bipartite in 2007, in the decree of the year 2007. It's the first time this is picked up. But, of course, then there was a wind plan that responded to the country's interests and protected the environment, and protected people. And that's why you did the dirtiest campaign, a campaign of harassment and overthrowing that government, using all the power, the enormous power of those big companies that came here, besides giving Mr. Fexoo a hug to Mr. Sánchez Galán when he took possession. Or what? What did you come here to pick up a plane? And besides you did something that is infamous, indecent and ruinous, which was a personal and political lynching campaign of the Industry Counsellor, Fernando Blanco, and now the courts have come to put them in place. And there's still a day left to apologize for that infamous campaign. [[Applause]] I want from here to defend honesty, Fernando Blanco's ability to work and his entire team at the Industry Council, which marked one before and after in the defense of the country's interests. [[Applause]] Look, the problem is what I told you, it's the absolute, political and budgetary irrelevance of the Environmental Council, which is a mere appendix to its advisor's office, the General Directorate of Energy and Natural Resources; of course, they have already put natural resources on it, to end them, to drag them away, to police them. That's how they've been controlled since the Industry and Energy Council. And the BNG, which makes it clear, we're a opposition group and we're going to make a frontal opposition in all areas, and also a proposition group, and we're going to make the proposals in the next plenary by means of a motion, it doesn't give me time to develop them here, but they're clear, clear proposals in defense of the territory of the environment, of the people and of the country. And we'll also be in all the mobilizations, and the next day will be the 5th day at Compostela, matching the day of the environment. It's going to be the expression of this enormous, enormous, massive cry of rejection of this model of this political plan of the People's Party, where there are many people also from the People's Party, the People's Party councils, workers from the People's Party who live in all the municipalities attacked by these projects. And you're also getting something that's pernicious, that's very negative, that people are putting themselves mostly against renewable energies, when it shouldn't be that way, because of this wrong, broken and criticized policy up to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. So, in the face of abuse, in the face of blackmail, in the face of extortion, in the face of pre-power, in the face of the spolian of our resources and our country, we will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u142	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u143	...thousands of thousands of people defending the earth, defending life, defending nature, defending water and defending a different future for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u144	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, can you tell me, about the parks you've named, how many are approved? I'll tell you, none. Mr Bará, you do the worst policy, which is the policy of bad faith, by coming to Parliament trying to confuse what is a government's obligation to process a project the difference from having approved that project. You can't fool people, and you, unfortunately, are fooling people. Because, if you tell me about models, of course, we have a completely different model. Yours has already been annulled, Mr Bará, by the High Court of Justice of Galicia, please. You come here bragging about what? Of all the illegalities they intended to do from the bipartite? I remind you how your own government partner accused you of wanting to make a direct adjudication of the competition, your own government partner. But yes, our model is different. We believe in the company, Mr Bará, of course, we believe in the ability of the company to generate jobs and, above all, in public-private collaboration. You reject it permanently, you reject the company permanently. Surely because you're the one who prefers political servitude and not freedom. But that's a different model, just like our model allows any promoter, regardless of size, to develop an wind farm in Galicia, and also the Greek promoters, Mr Bará, also the Greek promoters. Our model, Mr Bará, allows the necessary environmental protection measures to be guaranteed and the development of wind energy can be compatible with activities in the primary and rural sectors. Don't fool people. Our model, Mr Bará, allows this orderly development, and therefore in the Act of Reactivation we are ensuring that no project cannot be developed outside the wind sector plans; 35 parks that have been denied by this Government through the rules of the wind sector itself. Mr. Bará, don't deceive people. Either you're in favour of Galicia moving forward in its energy transition or you're against it. Either you are in favour of economic recovery towards a sustainable model by taking advantage of the opportunities that the renewable industry opens up or is against. You come here to repeat the old mantras, the old mantras. They're still installed in the boycott in Galicia, the boycott in Galicia, Mr Bará, and that's certainly not what we're going to allow. It is not true that the wind sector is at the service of the large multinationals, you know it well; perhaps the reason is, Your Honor, in the great extent of the investments, because you know that each megawatt has an investment of EUR 1 million. It is not true that the wind sector does not comply with all guarantees of environmental protection. Don't fool people. All wind projects are accompanied by regular environmental impact assessment, which is the most secure and complete procedure regulated by State Law 21/2013. Why do you say we do not comply with Community directives? But, please, a bit of rigour and respect for this Parliament, because we respect this Parliament will also respect the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Your Honor, with banners against any economic activity, they won't respond to the needs of the Greeks. I, Mr Bará, deeply regret your independent speech. The only thing the Galician Nationalist Block wants is to disconnect Galicia from the rest of the world. [[Laughter]] That's their economic goal. An economic and social isolation that would only cause -- and the Greeks know, and so they have ratified it -- would be the closure of companies and the increase in unemployment. Now that Europe advocates precisely this ecological transition, digital transformation and social cohesion, we have a Galician Nationalist Block that says no to renewable energies, not to the wind sector and surprisingly vote against the marine wind of what they say outside, and that is political hypocrisy, Mr Bará, political hypocrisy of the Galician Nationalist Block. I deeply regret this hypocritical, politically speaking attitude of the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u146	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Noa Susana Díaz Varela and three other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government on parity in the composition of the decision-making bodies of the Society's Board of Directors for the Development of Strategic Projects of Galicia To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. I certainly doubted today whether you would be the person to whom I would speak, or whether I would be the adviser of Employment and Equality; I have to admit that that doubt had it and until this morning I have not come out of doubt. I'd rather it be you, Mr. Conde, I'd rather it be you, so thank you. Especially to avoid the placard I had to play today, if not, the Equality Counsellor, because, of course, they create a Equality Counsellor, why? Why would they create that advice? I also understand that, when you participate in this inquiry, there must have been some debate within the Government group and with good judgment the counselor did not want today, as I say, to assume the evil drink that would be for her. Because I'm convinced that mine, ours, women's, indignation is also yours. Well, at the beginning of this month we learned about the constitution of the Society for the Development of Strategic Projects of Galicia, which, participated by the Galician Union with 40% of the capital -- not very little -- you said that you would help mature the initiatives of the Greek candidacy to the Next Generation funds, grouped around the pole for the transformation of Galicia. No more! In other words, this public-private entity, by the way, in a new act of political obscurantism, because the rest of the political groups find out by the press, and I say that this public-private entity will decide which are the most suitable projects to place our country on the path of recovery. I repeat again, no less. Of course on that day, the day we know society, we also know the members of its Board of Directors, and here they are. This is the picture, there are more, uh, I have other photos, you can see, here you conquer some of them, and this is already the picture where they are located and well placed already to start working. This photo, the photo maybe best reflect that moment is this photograph. They've been pretty, uh, they've been pretty. Among the members, by the way, if you can't see it, it is, in addition to you, who presides over this Board of Directors, that is also the councillors of the Farm and the Rural Environment. In this photograph, in this Board of Directors. At that time, I explained to the Greek Government that this pole would focus on initiatives with a high impact on productivity, employment -- employment -- and territory, and that would generate a drag effect on all the productive tissue. But, of course, the question is, women don't know about all this. We better stay at home taking care of our home tasks, which men are already coming to decide what will be best for our country and, of course, for all of us. Because this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, lords of the Government, Mr. Conde, is what transcends this shameful photograph, that is what transcends, which says much of what the People's Party and the German Government think about our capacity, the capacity of women. [[Applause]] Pure machismo. And don't expect them to come into the speech that women are sufficiently prepared, etc., because that will be their speech, but it's not mine anymore, and I'm not going to enter at all into authentic justifications and obviouss, in obvious matters I'm not going to enter. Again, what we're talking about here is that only men, only men, want to decide the future of our country, or what's the same, half of the population will decide the future of the other half of the population. And by the way, and by the way, the other half, which as well they know or if they don't know, should know, that other half -- we -- we were the ones who suffered the worst consequences of this pandemic crisis. [[Applause]] I don't know, the truth is, I don't know what Mrs. Lorenzana will think about, besides her job responsibilities as well, the problem we have in our country, especially with youth employment, and which is supposed to be one of the axes of this new society. But neither, as my comrade Marina Ortega said yesterday, have counted on the social policy advisor when the pandemic has exposed the many weaknesses we have in our country in that matter; or even that of the Sea, as a strategic sector that should be for you; or that of the Environment and Territory, one of the axes in which we will also work the new society. No problem with the people who show up here, but where are the women? Where are the women? [[Applause]] I tell you of course, Mr. Conde, that I don't feel at all represented in this photograph and much less in the results that arrive. They'll be yours but they won't be mine, because neither I nor any woman can feel represented in this photograph, nor in this society that just conforms. Fortunately, we also find that many men do not feel represented either. But what do the advisors think? I don't know if you talked to them. What do the women of the People's Party think? This exacerbated masculine machismo, these constantly masculine scenarios in which women don't seem to be acceptable to them, do you think? Do you feel represented? I'm saying this because it's still today that I haven't seen a single criticism or denunciation of this unacceptable photo by the women of the People's Party. See, the first principle of autonomous community action set out in Legislative Decree 2/2015 on equality speaks of the absolute search for and elimination of discrimination on grounds of sex, etc., etc. And this parliamentary group is wondering about the compliance of the Greek Government with its own laws, but it's also talking about that decree and has a specific article about promoting, balancing, or women's board of directors. All of this is wet paper for you, isn't it? All this is wet paper. We can also talk, by the way, about state legislation, which already talks about a balance of 40-60, or even European recommendations. It doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter. Finally, the German Government is guilty of discrimination against women, because they treat us unfavorably with respect to men in an identical situation, or the problem is that they don't see us in the same situation? Do you understand that women need protection and that's why the important things are left for them to think about, that we to ours, which is also important, is also important. But business and money things, better for them. Is that it? Is that really what you think? The absence of women in decision-making bodies today results in all unacceptable light, and more so when we are talking about a body that will decide which projects will help to recover our country after the crisis. The reactivation of our country cannot be done by excluding half of the Greek society, which has a lot to say and to decide. That patriarchal and machist vision is more of our own centuries, of course not ours. [[Applause]] In addition, it must also be remembered that last March 9th, the Galician Parliament unanimously approved a socialist motion to urge the German Government to ensure that the gender perspective was present in those projects that opt for the Next Generation funds. Of course, we presented this motion mistrusting the real commitment of the People's Party and the Greek Government to equality, and we had little time to understand and verify that, unfortunately, we were right, we were right. How did they think they would meet that requirement without counting on us in their own decision-making bodies? We've also discussed the issue of glass ceilings here, we've heard many times the lords of the People's Party assume the need to look for the means to break up with these ceilings. But how do they intend to break up with these ceilings if who should take the measures is the first one that does not work? Because, in fact, this government is a bit of an example. And I'm going to the data, and I'm going to the data. 11 wallets and more the Presidency, that is 12, only 5 are women. The four territorial delegates are that, delegates, no women. Of 65 high-ranking, only 22 are women. And if we do -- what we did -- the analysis between the people who occupy the positions of director or general director, or secretary or secretary general, we find ourselves that 42 are only 17 women. And that's the data. By the way, you also congratulate the Culture Councillors from the Middle Rural and Fairy, uh, who don't have a single woman as secretary or general director. From here our congratulations. [[Applause]] I don't know what you'll have to tell us after this, Mr. Count, because it's not going to be easy for you to justify what we're making manifest. In front of -- and now I'm done -- of this discrimination and with conviction, with the conviction that women will be part of all decision-making centres in the future, the basis, unfortunately, regrettably, of reporting situations like today's, we asked him whether it was acceptable for the newly created Society's Board of Directors for the Development of Strategic Projects in Galicia, which was attended by the Galician Board with 40%, there is no woman. We want to know how you justify, as representative here of the Government of Greece, this total absence of women in a society called to decide the future of our country, and the future of our country is also the future of the women of Greece. At the moment, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, I appreciate the opportunity to discuss with you the European funds and the equality policy of the Galician Union, because I understand that is the objective of your question. We have indeed been in charge of the full integration of women in all areas for many years, and I know that. Starting with their presence in the autonomous administration itself, as through the design of programs based on equality criteria that contribute to achieving this goal. In fact, we've already talked about it in this House, we count on Galicia's VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2017-2020. The first was approved, as you know, at the beginning of the year 90, period 92-94, and we're profiling the VIII Strategic Plan. Also with the 2018-2021 Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan. In fact, we're one of the most comparable public administrations in maternity leave, 22 weeks, and paternity, 16 weeks. It also includes the protocol for the prevention, detection, action and resolution of situations of harassment at work and other discrimination at work. And we're also working on a specific equality plan for the Greek administration itself. Allow me to refer to some data. Today there are 186 women who participate in the societies, entities and foundations of the Welsh Administration, and they represent 40% of the total. And you tell me about the Impulse society that we've just formed. I'm sorry that you speak of opacity; you should certainly follow the board of the board of directors of the board where the agreements that have both budgetary and corporate implications are adopted, and there you will see on the agenda of the board of directors -- not in the media, Your Honor -- the approval of this society, of the participation of the board of directors in this society. And, as you know, the Governing Council of the Impulse Society -- because we've already transferred it from the Government -- it's an administrative council that's not closed, and, as you have indicated in the constitution itself a few days ago, it will count -- as it cannot be otherwise -- with the presence of women. But, Mrs. Díaz, not only on the board of directors, but also the executive board of this society will be made up of women; and, in fact, the general director of society will be an excellent professional who is also a woman. All I would thank you for from the Government is that you respect the prudence we are having, just as we respect the confidentiality of the candidates. Mrs. Díaz, I'm sorry that you intend to generate controversy where there is no controversy. The Administration is the first one to set an example in the matter of equality, we are doing so and we will continue to do so, and there is no doubt about it. That's probably why you're trying not to talk about equality and European funds. Surely, Mrs Díaz, it would be more helpful to the Greek women, to the young people of Greece, to the people with work disabilities who were concerned about supporting the request for co-governance, fairness and institutional legality made by the Central Government Council of Galicia to maximize the great opportunity represented by European funds for the recovery of Galicia. And it would help more to support the request that the Central Government stop penalizing Galicia with different criteria of distribution that always harm us, so we no longer perceive more than 600 million euros. Surely your real intention, Mrs. Díaz, to talk about the composition of the board of directors is simply because they don't want to talk about the real problems Galicia has with the next generation funds. The Government is asking the autonomous communities for an act of faith, of blind confidence in their decisions, without first counting them for anything, sharing the funds to their foolishness and obviating the criteria of social and territorial cohesion that Galicia marks. You should certainly stop being Ferraz's spokesman and be a spokesperson for the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Business and productive fabric, lordship, knowledge centres, economic and social agents and the Government of Greece are actually prepared to build Galicia for the next decade. And we would like the Socialist Party of Galicia to join a greener Galicia, a more digital Galicia, a cohesive Galicia, an inclusive Galicia and, of course, a more egalitarian Galicia. We count on this, as you know, with a candidacy that currently covers 355 initiatives that mobilise an investment of EUR 20 billion as a result, Your Honor, a broad process of dialogue and consensus with all those who wanted to participate; and of course also with women. Your Honor, in this context the Impulsora Society is born with a clear objective, which is to contribute to the maturation of the project tractors of the Greek candidacy that are actually grouped around the pole for the transformation of Galicia. A project that will mobilise more than €3,000 million over the next three years and that, in our view, fits perfectly into the definition of PERTE, with 8 initiatives that can allow us not only to start producing green hydrogen, to have a plant to convert cellulose into textile fibres, to put into operation a biogas generation center from waste treatment, to expand renewable energies and to boost industrial digitization. And I can assure you, Mrs. Díaz, that in all these projects that will be promoted by the Impulse Society, like all the projects in which the Council is working in Galicia, you will have considered the prospect of gender in all of them and each of the projects in which it is working in the Council of Galicia. I have to focus, ultimately, on the importance of this society and on the importance it will have not only the perspective of gender, but on the participation of women in it itself. And, therefore, Galicia is currently providing an instrument for European funds to enable this economic and digital transformation of Galicia that we are pursuing and that logically since the Greek Government we intend to push forward with the constitution of this society. So, Mrs. Díaz, real and effective equality between women and men is not the property of anyone, nor of his or the Socialist Party, of anyone; it is simply, Mrs. Díaz, an obligation for all. This is what we understand, of course, from the Galician Union, and we are aware that we must strive to ensure that, in the face of this crisis that is affecting more strongly the sectors where workers' presence is greater -- such as hospitality or trade -- we can give a result and an answer to meet their needs. We are also aware of the need to promote equal participation in the economy and in society not only through legal or moral justice, but also, Your Honor, as well, by competitiveness, because this is from the point of view of women's contribution to the labour market. I would ask you, Mrs Díaz, to help us follow this line, to also propose measures to advance equality, to intervene in this House seeking the best for Galicia, to use the Reactivation Commission to make proposals also in the light of the gender perspective, and to ultimately collaborate with this Government for all to strengthen a Galician woman. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u150	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u151	Thank you, President. What a disappointment, Mr. Conde. What a disappointment with your answer, really! And I have to tell you that it's also an incredible undoing. Now I do tell you that I thought it would be quite more productive to argue with you, but I don't think it is; now it is when I miss the Equality Counsellor, that maybe I had to tell myself something about equality. [[Applause]] Because, look, I'm telling you, if I wanted to talk about the Next Generation funds, I'm sure it wouldn't even be this Member I'd be talking to here. I came here today to talk about balance in decision-making organs; balance between women and men, of course, because perhaps you don't understand well either, you don't understand what the concept of balance is. I understand your placard, I truly understand it, but I am absolutely amazed by your answer. Of course, what are you going to say, what are you going to say? And by the way -- a punctualization -- this crisis has not affected the sectors where there are more women workers, this crisis has affected women, those who work and those who don't work. [[Applause]] Maybe there's also a need for more information. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, the balanced participation of women and men -- and please listen to what I'm going to say now because this is very important -- in making decisions is vital to equality, and I'm going to explain why. It's almost the first step; among other things, because the fact of not doing it -- as we saw in this picture of society that we denounce today -- implies a display of power formed only by men. I mean, he's transferring the message that he can = man. How are we then going to banish those topics that place us, women, in the most emotional part, in the care, and them in the important decisions? How are we going to banish those topics? Don't they realize that they're not doing any good to macho violence, whose causes are precisely that, in the belief that one -- and I say one and not one -- has greater power over another? And this is what's important and what they might have to turn around and reflect on this subject. And, no, don't try to convince us that they've already thought about including women. Honestly, don't take us for fools! Don't go that way. The statements by the president of the board saying the same thing as you -- and I do my own words by the president of the Pontevedra Parliamentary Parliament -- are "a titubious and absurd justification of the president of the board." If there was any will, I'd apologize and correct immediately. The opposite is to reaffirm that macho speech, as you, by the way, end up doing here today too. [[Applause]] Look, this dysfunction generated by the absence of women also contradicted the philosophy of those funds of which you have not stopped talking, which have gender equality as one of your great axes. But, nothing, men will already be in charge of applying that perspective, which for that you are the most feminist, you will be in charge! Do you understand now why since feminism we have always insisted on an idea, which is the need to apply the transversality of equality in political action? To avoid this, we have to apply equality. Equality must be a cross-sectional value in all political action in order to avoid this. We're fed up; really, we're full of so many masculine scenarios like this one, which show an exacerbated machismo that is also unbearable, even if for you they're just anecdotes of no importance. We're tired! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And by the way, we're also fed up that you're the ones who're already playing in the field and that we have to be the ones who're on the bench or who're the candidates. That general director... yes, of course, but the ones we know are these nine men, okay? The point is, it's not an anecdote -- as I said -- it's not, it's not, it's instants that finally remain in the collective imagination that help us set up models that we want to fight. This photo reproduces a patriarchal model in which the male is the strong and the powerful; by the way, that you come to save the weaker women and that we are also in need of protection -- as I said before -- because we don't know. Is that really what they want? Is this really what they want? Look, I really ate them from here, and forgive my tone so vehemently but truly outraged me, and indigested me above all his answer, which indeed unworthyd me above all his answer, I thought I would arrive here with much more humility. I ask you to reflect, we can't reproduce the patriarchate models, which is what you are doing here, we can't afford it now; no, we can't afford that retreat. I'm pretty sure that the five advisors knew nothing about the composition of this board of directors, I'm practically sure, in that advice where no figure is. And that's more evidence than women are not in the decision-making centers in Galicia, at least not in the public authorities. And everything despite -- I repeat -- unanimously approve that the gender perspective would have to be present in their projects that aspire to European funds. Look, and I'm done, there's no excuse, they don't have it, and from the PSdEG we demand that they stop empty speeches on equality and commit themselves truly to it, truly ensuring a balanced presence of women in all management centres, especially in pandemic management centers and decision-making about the outcome of this crisis. Only in this way will we be able to guarantee a feminist vision and the inclusion of the gender perspective in the recovery and reactivation actions that take place. Please, Mr. Conde, make your feminist speech, which I remember, if it was necessary, that all you are looking for is equality between men and women. Of course, I'd better go to all of us, without any doubt, to all the Greek women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Díaz, indeed, Galicia must face important challenges in the future, such as effective equality between men and women. And I think we can agree that the relevant facts are the facts and, therefore, what is the situation that Galicia has today compared to years ago. And today, Mrs. Díaz, in Galicia there are more women working than twelve years ago and less looking for a job. That's the reality. In fact, it's 485,650 women who are visiting Social Security in the autonomous community, that is, 22,172 more than in April 2009, and they represent almost half of the total. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, the German labour market has better results for women than in the whole of Spain. According to EPA, we have a lower unemployment rate, almost 4 points less in Galicia than in Spain; higher employment rates among women aged 16 to 64, 2.2 points more than Spain; and we have, Mrs Díaz, lower rates of temporality and bias. Do you think this data is a coincidence? For surely there is a policy of effective defence of equality between men and women, a policy of equality on the part of the Galician Union and we will continue to work in that direction, because this Government actually speaks in women, and speaks in women, because it believes in the contribution that women are developing in the labour market. [[Murmurs.]] Is that enough? No, it's not enough, Mrs. Díaz. We have to keep working on this line because it's true that there are some things to improve, among them the wage divide, the conciliation and the glass ceiling, quite related to each other. But he probably hasn't reviewed EPA before this question and in Galicia there are 13,000 women in management and management positions. They assume more than 35% of the people occupied in this position, which is a higher percentage than in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] A collective, Your Honor, where women will also be incorporated into the decision-making and management bodies of the Impulse Society constituted by the Galician Union. We have transferred it and so it will be not only in the decision-making bodies, in the board of directors, but, as it was, in the management board. A general director who will have the opportunity not only to promote European projects, but to include the gender perspective in all of them, which is the challenge that we are moving from the point of view of that society. I repeat that request for caution to this Government with its qualifications, which are out of place, of course, and which I respect that in this case we too must respect the confidentiality of the candidates. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In short, Your Honor, I don't think you should capitalize on what isn't yours, neither yours nor the Socialist Party of Galicia. Equality between men and women is a heritage of all, and therefore it is a responsibility we have to keep working because that's how we're working among all. You are trying to decontextualize a reality of Galicia that logically we will continue to promote that gender equality and that will be present through all the cross-cutting measures that we are incorporating into the different European projects that we are working on in the context of Next Generation. They are designed to raise the female employment rate, reduce gaps, adapt skills to certain sectors and jobs, especially Mrs Díaz, in the field of R & D+i and related vocations in the scientific field, and also improve care resources. In addition, we have already included 8 projects that are specific in the field of equality to provide information and guidance to women at the local level, to reactivate employment and female entrepreneurship, to promote reconciliation and co-responsibility, to fight against gender violence or to address women in a particularly vulnerable situation and to promote their integration, a clear example of how this government is working for a Galician womanhood and is working for European projects to include the perspective of gender. We trust, logically, to continue to promote projects; the Socialist Party has not put forward any proposals, and if we need from then on the support of the Central Government so that, together with the autonomous communities, we can continue to move forward in a Galician female, in a Spain female. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u154	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in the field of wind energy in Galicia To make an inquiry, Mr. Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u155	Thank you, President. I hope you will be more comfortable with this interpellation, Mr. Conde, after the spectacle so regrettable that you have just given in the previous interpellation, defending the indefensible picture of, as women say now, all the cockrolos that the People's Party has given us in front of the Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Vice-President Conde, despite the fact that the mobilizations are growing all over the territory, from Laxe to Baiona, from Laza to Coruel, despite the fact that every day they are more the mayors of their party asking for changes, we still do not see that they admit the need for a deep debate and consent to regulatory changes that correct the evases that exist in the current model of wind power deployment in Galicia. From the Socialist Group we ask them once again to open this debate. I don't think it's much to ask. That they don't have arms crossed in the face of the existing discomfort, that they do something to prove to the citizen that the Greek Government is at their side on matters that affect their interests. If you had acted, if you had planned, if you had promoted participation and transparency, I'm sure this process of deployment of wind energy would have strong support from most of them, or virtually all of the citizens of Greece. In his hand is changing that perception that they have every day more Greek and Greek than the Government of the People's Party in Galicia's Union works to benefit the interests of the great energy companies of this country, Mr. Conde. From the Socialist Party we want to tell you that we are strong advocates of the deployment of wind energy and the fight against climate change. Believe me, if I tell you that socialists are not the ones who oppose any wind power deployment initiative that is taking place in our country, and it's not our concellers or our militants who form a platform to stand against any wind deployment without first analyzing what every wind park means in our territory. From our party we analyze case by case with responsibility. But we have to ask them to make an effort to modify the current model to ensure the citizenship that the installation of new wind farms will respect our territory, the quality of life of our rural citizens, the viability of the agricultural holdings so important to our country's economy, our cultural heritage, our environment and our landscape. From our group we know that the wind sector is important in Galicia, as I said yesterday, which represents almost 1% of the German GDP and a contribution of about 600 million euros. We know that it brings thousands of jobs associated with this sector. Even so, through tax taxes, both autonomics and locals, our economy reaches about 60 million euros and about 58 more taxes at the state level. On the other hand, the wind energy generated in Galicia to replace conventional energies has an impact on the fight against climate change, allowing greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced to the atmosphere, and between 2015 and 2019 avoided the emission of 33 million tons of CO2, which in economic terms also translates into an saving of 153 million euros in 2019 into emission rights. Having said this and worth not to say otherwise a sector that needs to be defended and empowered, we understand that Galicia now has a strong deployment of wind energy, much more than in most of our country's autonomys, and therefore any wind energy project that arrives in Galicia should be analysed with a great deal of measure and a great deal of sympathy. Mr. Conde, it is in your hand to work in communion with the municipalities and communities of our rural community, or to continue to see how new collectives and mayors even from your party who are afraid that very aggressive wind projects are being carried out, that you and I also know that they have no future in many cases, but that their model, the current model of the Galician Union, allows them to generate uncertainty. We only ask you to open a negotiation process to arrive at a new wind sector plan, that the current plan does not respond to reality and has not been subjected to a strategic environmental impact study. We must study the situation of Galicia as a whole, establish where new wind infrastructures must be located; which are the areas that we must preserve from the impact of these parks; what limits we must have on this deployment; and, of course, what regulation we must put on the table before wind infrastructures that have changed a lot since the start of the installation of parks in Galicia, since nothing has to do with those mills that were installed in the 1990s with the current ones, which can reach 200 meters high, Mr. Conde. Look at the picture of what the Coruña Hercules Tower means next to one of these windmills. Mr. Count, we can and we must make changes. We understand that you have made changes to the Law of Simplification to facilitate the deployment of wind energy, although the EGA itself recognizes that it does not help them at all. But they could also open up the changes to protect our citizenship. Look, you've recently made it possible for wind energy to be implanted outside the wind development areas. They also allowed the Environmental Inspection Service to develop private companies. But they're unable to modify that planning to increase the minimum distance to which the mills of the dwellings need to be located, and they know that here is 500 meters the rural core, half that is in Asturias or Valencia. We can change it. They should have studied what is happening with the appearance of large polygonal surfaces of the wind farms that cause a condition about the properties that are located inside, some polygonals who are generating loads on many properties of galleys that receive absolutely nothing by such affection, but are limited their possibilities and diminished the value of their properties, Mr. Conde. They should protect the enlargement areas of the Natura Network, an extension that they have accepted from their group by voting in favour of a proposal from our group to end, something that has already been projected by the Government of Touriño and that has blocked ten years, take into account also that we have half the state average of that network. On the other hand, they protect the valuable areas of Galician wetlands, including the turbulence present in many places where these wind farms are being projected, which are only being contemplated in environmental impact studies, since, with the exception of the five protected wetlands of Galicia, these turbulences are not even included in the inventory of the wetlands provided by autonomic regulations for a decade, an inventory that has never been carried out. The curious thing is to see the reply that they give from Junta to those such as the collective of the Quixote de Outes, who ask for the cataloguing of new wetlands and receive the next reply from the Board, that this record is only on a statistical level and therefore does not involve protection. This is the response given to a collective who wants to protect something essential in the future as water is. The briers and turbides of their territory, a type of wetland that already receives a high degree of protection according to the European Union and the Water Framework Directive, with the importance of these wetlands to combat climate change because they are natural accumulators of CO2. Mr. Conde, we brought this inquiry after seeing its unmovable and opposing position in connection with a series of proposals that do not involve the paralysing of the deployment of wind energy in Galicia with matters that were not against European state legislation. Let's look at what was our first motion in December 2020: the establishment of a technical, administrative and environmental advisory office for municipalities and communities affected by processes of the development of wind activity in their territory. Curious to see that you, who voted against this proposal in December, announce this month in a meeting with mayors of the province of Pontevedra the creation of a provincial information network so that the municipalities can know the future wind projects that will take place in the community before starting their processing. Something's changed, so I see. We understand that it is difficult for them to admit the current system's eels, and that they are gradually changing their position. But just as he once admitted the creation of this office, which he had previously denied, in December, I'm going to propose other matters to him. It sets out measures to improve the income of the owners, balancing the negotiations between promoters and owners, with the publication of a standard contract so often so that the citizen has as a basis to negotiate with the promoters. It creates a public base of price information reached in negotiations, it's nothing complex what we're asking for. It changes the regulatory framework to get again that, in order to arrive at the declaration of public utility on a land and that a promoter can access an expropriation, it is necessary to justify the existence of a negotiation and the impossibility of reaching agreements, something that you have modified. We call for the deployment of wind turbines to have a greater impact on the municipalities and rural communities, modifying the current regulation so that the wind canon is established by the power installed in parks, not by the mill, at the moment when fewer mills are installed but are of greater size and power. And they can change the distribution of the environmental compensation fund, a fund that is split opaquely and which should be done with objective criteria by acting directly in the communities affected by the installation of these wind farms. In the case of wind farms located on the lands of neighboring mountain communities, let us propose that, as the Principality of Asturias does, the canon or income cannot or should not be less than 3% of the value of the profits obtained by the promoter, is in its mountain law, in the law of Asturias Mountains. And they eliminate the generic prevalence of social interest and public utility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u156	You have to finish, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u157	... -- I'm done -- in relation to the neighboring mountains of man common, which should be studied on a case-by-case basis. We also ask you to protect rural nuclei and agricultural activities, which is one of the basic pillars of our rural area, which cannot be at risk for the implementation of this activity. Mr. Conde, do you accept that you should open the debate about the wind model and introduce changes or do you prefer to follow cross arms? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u158	Thank you, Mr. Seco. The second vice president, Mr. Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Seco, what doubt does the Socialist Party of Galicia have about guarantees from the cultural, environmental and urban standpoint in the processing of wind farms in Galicia? I'd like to know. Is there any doubt on the part of the Socialist Party in Galicia that each of the projects is studied on a case-by-case basis for each of the departments that are affected? What kind of doubts do you want to move in your intervention? "Words without works, guitar without strings." And it perfectly describes the Socialist Group's position in the face of any challenge Galicia has, and in particular the challenge of developing renewable energies. This Saturday you were talking about cooperation and defending a sound wind model that respects the environment and the primary sector that turns returns to our society in an attempt to break apart from the radicalism of the Galician Nationalist Block and its platforms. And today, four days later, in this plenary, they are again standing next to those who oppose everything. They do not vote for the development of the wind sector along with the Galego Nationalist Block in the GNP that was discussed this morning, and repeat the same speech of science fiction with the same falsifications, the half truths and the same sense of vote. Not Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The German peasant, Mr. Seco, doesn't need false saviors. It needs public servants to put their general interest in their political interests ahead of their own. We are faced with a clean, sustainable energy, with 25 years of history and coexistence in our community, 25 years, Your Honor, 25 years where the different governments are working on that coexistence and that compatibility of wind development and respect and the defense of the environment. An energy that has evolved much technologically so that it can be more efficient and to look for a lower environmental impact than you're obvious. An energy that avoids emissions of CO2, the main cause of climate change that irreversibly threatens natural ecosystems and biodiversity and that, of course, an energy that contributes to the improvement of the areas where the different projects in the Galicia set are implemented. A sector that knows and generates jobs, hires self-employed, small businesses, pays taxes and income for land, and reaches 0.9% of all gross domestic product in Galicia. But, in addition to its economic impact, the Council of Galicia has no other priority than to work to maintain the necessary balance between industrial development and the environment. The administrative processing carried out in the procedure for the authorisation of a wind farm which depends on this administration, as you well know, with all the corresponding legal, technical and environmental guarantees, following the sectoral legislation, in this case the Law on wind use, and also the environmental legislation, in this case the Environmental Assessment Act, which requires, as you know, that all possible impacts on the place, including the cumulative and synergistic effects of the project, be considered. All parks, Mr Seco, have to face an ordinary environmental impact declaration, which is the guarantee that no wind park can be fragmented by shielding in that environmental impact declaration, legality which meets all the requirements set by the State for the entire national territory and which even reinforces. You know that since 2009 in Galicia, wind projects are not allowed to be authorized in spaces declared as areas of special protection, natural values to be part of the Natura 2000 Network, except for repotencing. A ban which was referred to in 2014 with the approval of the Natura 2000 Network Director Plan, specifically marking the prohibition of the deployment of new wind farms in these areas. So we're aware from the Galician Union of natural values protecting our community, so we've come to do it and we'll continue to do it in the future. In fact, in Galicia, Mr Seco, all places of Community importance of the Natura Network are protected spaces, 100%; there are 59 areas that have been declared to be of special protection, to which the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, six natural parks, five protected wetlands, eight natural monuments, two protected landscapes and 16 areas of special protection for birds. And at this point, as I said in the previous interpellation, the Council of Galicia is drawing up a new technical proposal for the declaration of new parks of Community importance for turbulence habitats that can cover up to 30,000 hectares. Finally, Mr. Seco, there is no other commitment than orderly wind development. This is why the Galician Economic Reactivation Act, which you seem to want to defend today, but which you voted against, as always, that you know we approved in February, will prevent you from deploying parks outside the areas included in Galicia's sectoral plan, except for those projects that actually have a clear territorial impact on your economic and social entity and have a vertebrate role in the territory. And with this regulatory instrument, in which you voted against, we have reported negatively 35 projects that process the central government in the autonomous community that add a total power of 2,632 megawatts and affect one in five municipalities. All parks, Your Honor, with negative report from the Galician Union and therefore cannot be developed in our territory. The question I'm transferring to you is why this theme of the Galician Socialist Party to generate doubts about wind development in Galicia and renewable energies; they stop fooling people. The project log is the start of the administrative processing and does not ensure, as you know, any feasibility and does not ensure your approval either. All parks have to overcome regulatory regulation on wind, urban, landscape, heritage, nature conservation, and they know perfectly well, the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Galego Nationalist Block, they know it, but they just want to extract political revenue by deceiving people; it's the worst political possible. The current legal framework is extraordinarily guaranteed in Galicia and Spain, and they know it, and they know that no project can go forward without the favorable reports of the bodies concerned. And, therefore, their politics is simply an irresponsible policy. I'm clear on this, you know that we have a third priority and a third commitment, which is to act with maximum transparency and legal certainty. Indeed, Mr Seco, we have come to establish a provincial information network as a new channel of communication between the Autonomous Administration and the Local Administration. I don't know why he doesn't focus precisely on putting this initiative into focus, because he's going to allow the Administration to transfer all the first-hand information to the municipalities where these projects are planned to be implemented; of course, without prejudice to the allegations that this body, as well as any other person or entity in the area, can present in the ordinary public exposure process. I remind you, Mr. Seco, that the public exhibition is the beginning of the processing of an wind farm. Surely the Galician Nationalist Block knows but doesn't recognize it, and I would at least like that since the Galician Socialist Party had acted with a little more rigour. I sincerely believe that these are sufficient measures that demonstrate a clear commitment by the Galician Union to act with planning, transparency and consensus. We have enough potential to reconcile the opportunity for economic recovery and employment that represent renewable energies with the protection of our natural heritage. That is our objective and its materialization depends only on a real political commitment to the future of Galicia by the opposition, which implies abandoning this campaign of despising and harassment of the wind sector in which you are immersed, but on which this Government, this parliamentary group and the Greeks and the Greeks, of course, will not participate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u160	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u161	Thank you, President. I had already told him about the paperboard, and the paperboard had to let him down a little bit, because it's good that when a member of parliament presented an interpellation at least you'd come to debate, not to say what he was told by some sort of advisor and be informed that the Socialist Party voted in favour of the People's Party's initiative for the deployment of wind energy. Today, Mr. Conde, I don't know whether you were here or you didn't find out, because you should raise your eyes on the papers, but the Socialist Party, in addition to the Socialist Party, has accepted an amendment from the Socialist Party which has added to the proposal put forward by the People's Party, which is in favour of the deployment of wind energy, always off-shore, always linked also to the sea and fishing activities. [[Applause]] But, look, you were saying the same thing in December, in December, neither was it necessary to implement this type of environmental administrative technical advisory offices to local municipalities and communities. You used to say exactly the same thing as you say today about other kinds of issues, but then curiously you're the one who proposes it. That's right, a few months later. Because you're not realizing that what's really generating the problem in Greek society, that uncertainty that's generating in Greek society is you and your advisor, Mr. Conde, is you, because you're not being transparent and not being participatory. You're not informing the Galician society of what's going to happen and what can happen, you're not being complicit with the Greek society of what's going on. Look, you know what Manuel Pazo said, the president of the Galician Wind Association, I suppose no one suspected of being against the wind. He said, "This is the jungle." I was out in a media today, saying this is the jungle. It speaks of projects to fatten the asset wallet to be done with connection point rights for five years. They themselves are very concerned, Mr. Count, for their lack of initiative to plan and legislate on this subject. There were only 6 environmental statements and 4 authorisations in Galicia in 2020, that's all. And in the year 2021, which is almost the middle of the year, goes an environmental statement only and no authorization, Mr. Conde. That's their success, that's their success and their planning failure. It's funny that during the bipartite they've given more than twice as many wind farms as you have in 12 years; therefore, you should at least open the possibility, which is what we're asking. It opens up the possibility of debate, let us talk about a new sectoral wind plan, which has changed the situation, has changed the infrastructures of the wind sector. We can talk about distances, why don't we admit to talking about distances? Why don't you allow us to talk about protecting the Natura Network enlargement areas? Maybe that's why you've been stopped for 10 years this enlargement, Mr. Conde? [[Applause]] Or we can talk about the protection of wetlands, wetlands, which is going to be one of the basic issues in Galicia and the rest of the world over the next few years, and you're telling a collective when you present an initiative to ask the Galician Council to include certain wetlands within the inventory, to tell it that it doesn't matter, that they can't do it, that it does it on its own initiative, but it's nothing more than anecdotic mode, to just have it as if it was something to consult. No, Mr. Conde, wetlands must also be protected considering what water is going to mean and what begins to mean water in our future. Look, you leave a lot of unanswered questions; do them, say if we're in favor. We are in favour of the implementation of the wind sector, are you in favour of the issues we have raised? To balance the negotiation? To put in place systems to balance the negotiation of owners and promoters? Do you agree? Because you can do it, you can do it whenever you want. You can make a type contract, you can make that list of the agreements that are being taken in Galicia with respect to promoters, you can change the legislation so as not to go so easily to expropriation. You can do a lot of things, you can modify your economic return to communities and municipalities. But they don't do anything at all, they prefer to keep looking elsewhere, just as they did when we told them that we had to create a system of counseling for our neighbours, for our municipalities and for all those who wanted to know something about the deployment of wind energy, and now it's you who denounce it, when they're really stepping on their heels, they don't understand how their government isn't doing their duties and prefer to be with their arms crossed, just seeing what's going on. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u162	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, it's hard, isn't it? It's hard when a political party wants to oppose everything. I understand it perfectly, and when you want to oppose this case the development of an economic sector, and when you want to make a whole amendment to a sector. I am grateful to you for actually supporting today's bill passed this morning to explore Galician opportunities in the marine wind. The Galego Nationalist Block does not want to analyze or study, they have certainly done all their studies; but I remind you that today too, Mr. Seco, you have supported, you have tried to support the refusal of the Galego Nationalist Block to the Earth wind, which has been voted favourably by this parliamentary group, and therefore you whenever you speak of terrestrial wind, Mr. Seco, whenever you speak of land wind, you do not vote. [[Murmurs.]] That's reality, and so I simply turn to the facts. I understand that you actually come here to deal with a speech, but I have clearly answered you about the position of the Galician Union from the point of view of the environmental protection of the territory in the processing of wind farms. I have made it clear that Galicia has not developed any new wind farms since 2009 on Natura Network, with all clarity. And I also said with all clarity that, 100 percent of the sites of community importance of the Natura Network are protected spaces in Galicia. And I also said, Mr Seco, that the Galician Council is drawing up a new technical proposal for declaration of new sites of Community importance for turbulence habitats. I said it clearly. Therefore, this Government is not only applying regulations and defending the natural environment, it is working to increase protection linked to the Natura Network. Therefore, Your Honor, I think it is clear what this Government is committed to protecting the environment and what the Government is committed to is the compatibility of economic activity with the environment. Your Honor, the Galician Union will continue to work on wind development, as long as it is done in an orderly manner and in compliance with all environmental, urban, cultural and heritage regulations. But I regret that the German Socialist Party prefers to deny the biggest, do it permanently, and keep that claim against the wind industry and auxiliary industry, and also against the professionals who work in the Greek administration, and that's not proper, it's more inappropriate, the Socialist Party. It must also be borne in mind that the framework that European funds offer us, in that sense, is an opportunity to boost renewable energy, that we will try to push from the Government, and not only with the development of new renewable power, but also by linking industrial self-consumption to this new renewable power, and thus ensuring not only the development of the wind sector, but also the competitiveness from the industrial price point of view of our territory and our companies. He knows that the Government's wind policy has a positive impact on the territory, not only by ensuring that environmental protection, but also by having an economic impact through the wind canon that directly reverts to the municipalities, and therefore we will continue to support that positive impact. Finally, Madam President, the Council of Galicia believes that wind development is perfectly compatible in the current environmental regulatory context and with the rest of the economic activities of our rural environment. And we are convinced that it is an opportunity to achieve a greener Galicia, with more industry and more employment, from which we will continue to work so that the projects develop with all guarantees and with all the sensitivity that is necessary for citizenship, and also to continue to defend with all intensity our heritage, cultural heritage, urban heritage and environmental heritage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u164	Thank you, Vice President. We suspended the session until 6:40.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u165	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session with questions to the Government. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Galician Union for making calls for "manifestation of interest" to the next generation funds after the referral to Brussels of the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u166	Good afternoon. Mr. Count, good afternoon. On 7 October, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan was approved at the state level, and on 30 April, the deadline for referring that plan to Brussels was final. National plan -- as you know -- or the roadmap that marks the beginning of modernization, transformation, growth and impulse of economic activity, especially after this pandemic. And besides a plan that spins over 4 axes and 10 panca policies that you know perfectly well. For the purpose of identifying the projects, the Government of the State launched various calls for expressions of interest before 30 April, logically before the referral of that plan to Brussels. The Ministry of Industry, for example, launched a call to learn about projects linked to this ministry that could be financed from European funds that ended on January 20, the Ministry of Ecological Transition did the same within the end of January 29, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation has done exactly the same, to launch a call for expressions of interest to know about projects on the subject, for example, digital connectivity, deployment of the 5G band and cybersecurity issues also before the date of April 30. Well, the Galician Board has referred -- according to you announced to us here in the plenary -- 354 projects for its incorporation into the National Recovery and Resilience Plan: 247 audiences and 107 private people, who, according to you, will mobilize something like 19000-20,000 million euros, which, of course, does not cease to be an authentic dream -- as I have told you at some point in this plenary --. Well, this Greek candidacy did not conform without the Galician board testing -- at least in a public way -- and the call for a demonstration of interest was launched to find out what the projects that the Greek companies or society, the Greek economic and productive fabric should have been able to incorporate into that National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, those Greek projects that you then referred to Madrid. For that question, the question we are asking you is basically what reasons are there for the Galician Union to launch calls of interest once the Galician Union itself has referred the projects, 354, to the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience just when this deadline is over? If you answer, we thank you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u167	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Rivera, for the most part, the fact is that I have to move to you that it is difficult to understand the Socialist Group's position here in Galicia with regard to European funds. It seems your group's only concern is to prevent you from taking the initiative from Galicia, to be able to identify, select projects, strengthen strategic projects that integrate the Greek candidacy, and in that context I am surprised at your position. As you well know, the national plan itself is currently being evaluated by the European Commission. The European Commission is making demands for information to the Government itself, and the Government is currently evaluating these expressions of interest and is assessing what will be the calls to be published. And in that context, as you know, Galicia is acting with responsibility, working together with the productive tissue from the very first moment, because the productive tissue has presented its candidatures, like the Galician Union itself, to those manifestations of interest. So there was a direct contact with the own productive tissue that was presenting these manifestations of interest, many of them supported by the Galician Union itself. And from that point on, he knows that at the moment we are opening up a period in which all the autonomous communities are trying to consolidate, mature, strengthen their own projects so that they can be presented with the greatest possible guarantees to those calls that the Government will present. So, the candidacy that we have submitted to the Spanish Government itself, with these 355 projects, from the very first moment, was an open candidacy, a candidacy in which we continue to work, strengthening those projects, in which we continue to work to identify new initiatives. And in that context is where the Galician Union is developing different manifestations of interest precisely so that it can strengthen and consolidate initiatives within aspects that we consider relevant. Green hydrogen and the uses and demands that can be developed linked to the generation of green hydrogen seem to be a fundamental aspect, just as it seems to us a fundamental aspect of strengthening initiatives in rural environment or in the development of R & D centers itself. It is therefore initiatives, Mr Rivera, which are linked precisely to this strengthening, to that maturation and to conform and consolidate the candidacy. So I think in that context we are acting with a lot of responsibility, linked in a coordinated way to the actions that the Government is doing. And I think we're working precisely for the candidacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u169	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u170	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Count. Do not take the question as a criticism, but as a manifestation of interest to this honourable Member in knowing that it is what moves the Union to make a call for an expression of interest once the Union has already referred the 354 projects to the National Plan. We understand that this call of manifestation of interest should have been made earlier by the Galician Board itself to give time to the productive tissue, indeed, to incorporate a set of projects that would then qualify for the Greek candidacy. That didn't happen, Mr. Count, it's happening now. In any case, since you are, at last, launching the demonstrations of interest now, once last April 30th, we would like to know if you are actually taking into account these requests for expressions of interest the projects of a territorialized nature. That is, if they are actually taking into account that projects that are linked to European funds have to cohesive the country's territory and not just go on one line or one side, or favouring a part of the country, in this case the most developed part, the Atlantic. With regard to the funds, Mr Conde, we have called for dialogue with the council, dialogue with the board, we have called for a presentation in this Parliament, we have insisted that if we give this voice to the social agents, political agents, and you are absolutely nothing. And one last question with regard to European funds: you just formed a public-private society, which was already discussed here in the morning, and you just dropped a masculinized society in addition. I just wanted to ask you one last question: in that society where financial institutions and private companies are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u172	...who will decide...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u173	Thank you. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Close the question, second vice president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Rivera, I honestly believe you must review what policy the Socialist Party is developing in Madrid, with the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, on European funds. I think I should check it out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Government is centralizing the entire management of European industrial policy funds. The autonomous communities that we have competences in industrial policy will not have territorialized a single euro to develop our industrial policies. And I should explain to the Minister of Industry why he announces a PERT linked to the electric car in Catalonia, that surely if he should explain it, and why he's not moving across with transparency to all of the car manufacturers in Spain which conditions will be the reason for developing that PERT linked to the battery. So I'm surprised you're talking about territorialization, when it's the government itself -- its government -- in Madrid, which is centralizing all the funds in industrial policy. It is something, Your Honor, which is unpublished that the autonomous communities that we have competences in industrial policy have not territorialized the funds to dynamize our industry. The question is what is the position of the Socialist Party of Galicia in this case? And, therefore, if the Galician Socialist Party is supporting the Galician Union and the Italian industrial fabric, which is in a position of lack of dialogue, lack of co-governance and lack of sensitivity on Galician territory in terms of industrial policy, with a series of funds which are precisely aimed at strengthening the productive fabric. With regard to the manifestation of interest, Mr. Rivera, we are working, we are developing the very projects that have been presented to us. The manifestation of interest in the release of hydrogen in the case of the Government is directly linked to the generation of hydrogen. We are making a manifestation of interest precisely to identify possible uses or demands linked to industry itself, to transport itself, to identify technological projects that we can develop with European funds Next Generation or with ERDF funds 2021-2027. We have to work with the productive tissue, we have a manifestation of interest in identifying whether there is interest in the fabric to create R & D centers in Galicia. And if so, we will devote funds to the Next Generation funds, to the ERDF funds of the autonomous community itself. I really believe, Mr Rivera, that we would be very grateful that the Socialist Party of Galicia is no longer a spokesperson for the Government in Spain and that it is beginning to defend the interests of our productive fabric in the field of European funds. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u175	Thank you, Mr. Count. Question by Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and four other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the actions of the Government of Greece in the face of the continued loss of jobs in the textile trade sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u176	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. One of the most important sectors in Galicia is the economic crisis caused by Covid-19, along with tourism and hospitality, is textile. In addition to the unceasing drop in small-trade closures in the past year and the loss of employment that this causes in both workers on both their own account and on their own, in April we witnessed various announcements of the start of the ERE consultation period; one of them was produced in the H company, an attempt by the textile chain to lower the wage costs and to prejudge the working conditions of the employees and to implement a low cost work that affected the closure of three stores in Galicia, namely in Vigo, Ourense and Ferrol, and so on substantial changes to three other workplaces. In Ourense, specifically, the drastic ERE would affect nearly 20 jobs in the city, despite being one of the most profitable shops in Spanish territory. In Ferrol, so many others. Last Friday we were aware that the unions and the company reached a pre-agreement that was ratified yesterday in the following terms: voluntary re-registrations, reduction of days to avoid dismissals, higher compensation accounts, etc. Ourense's tent will remain open and Vigo's will be moved, but not Ferrol's, who will close the blind. The workers maintained a titanic struggle to reach an agreement with the help of the union power stations that planned an escalation of mobilizations. The follow-up, as you know, was massive. And I can't help but show you the admiration of this parliamentary group, both the workers and the workers as well as their families and the unions, who accompanied them and accompanied them in the struggle. Even so, Adolfo Domínguez's society in the same month put another ERE on the table for organisational, productive and economic reasons with an initial claim to include a third of its staff, which after the pre-emptive negotiation, lowered the chill of 204 redundancies and 55 biases. Company and trade unions -- UGT, Commissions and IGC -- reached an agreement that meant the loss of nearly a hundred jobs in Ourense province, 95 specifically of the central factory located in the San Cibrao polygon. This Parliamentary group has introduced, Madam Counsellor, which had met with the Enterprise Committee, which had drawn up an action plan and did nothing. The pandemic, as you know, is shutting down the Greek trade, we don't deny that this is a problem all over the country, but in Galicia it's so much the crisis in the sector that they're even affecting the so-called gold miles, that they're getting 125 places in the 7 big empty cities. In Galicia in 2020, the indicators factors led 1,384 businesses undertaken by self-employed persons, of which 309 correspond to retail trading closures. In view of this situation, does the Government count on a concrete action plan for the continued loss of jobs in the textile sector?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u178	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Employment recovery in Galicia is mainly found in the construction sector and in the service sector. Galicia is the community that records the highest rate of inter-monthly and inter-annual unemployment both in absolute and relative terms, and manages to reduce the number of unemployed per fourth consecutive month. It increases recruitment and mainly increases full-time recruitment in terms of indefinite contracts. And membership increases. We now have 27,223 taxpayers more than at the beginning of the crisis and, as I say, recovery is essentially within the most affected sector, which is the service sector. Greek trade is evolving better than the average state according to retail trade indices published by the National Institute of Statistics for the whole of 2020, whereas, given that all communities have decreased their sales, the state has done so in the medium term at -6.8% and, however, the negative rate in Galicia is -2.5%. We also have a better evolution in the year 2021; in fact, the latest published data, which is the month of March, reflect that in Galicia commercial sales are growing by about 0.7 per cent, while in the state as a whole they are falling by 1.8 per cent. For Galicia, of course, that general trade and trade for the child, closely related trade in particular, is an essential part of our economy and our employment; and for that reason, and even though our community is indeed responding, it is better resisting the crisis of Covid, as I say, in the service sector, however, today we are having actions, concrete programmes to provide assistance to the trade sector, both direct aid that promotes consumption, as well as direct aid to self-employed people, small traders, as aids to modernise and digitize the trade sector. The Business Bond, with 10 million euros to boost sales in the sector worth 55 million euros and reach 330,000 customers throughout Galicia, an initiative launched in collaboration with the Galician Trade Federation which already has 5,000 affiliated trades. We carried out dynamisation campaigns at open malls and for salesmen's associations in a range square worth 2 million euros. Help to boost digital transformation by EUR 9 million between 2020 and 2021. The Peme Energy and Trade Bonus, 3 million euros in this direction. And also bonus for self-employed people, 5 million euros for 2,000 people who benefited from this bonus. Even so, a cycle of training workshops to accompany the business of proximity to Galicia in the need to address the digital jump; and the Safe Trade Platform launched in collaboration with ISGA with guides and displays with health recommendations, making it easier for individuals and pemes in the sector to self-assess the requirements of compliance with all measures to prevent, clean and hyxene, etc., against Covid-19.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u179	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u180	At the moment, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u181	Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u182	Thank you, President. Counsellor, diagnosis is not good, the Italian textile sector goes through a very delicate moment and the data speaks for themselves: every day they lose about 8 jobs directly related to this industry in our autonomous community. And I don't say it, say it to Patronal Fedecom. Since December 2019, 7,993 members of the social security industry and textile trade have been lost. In Galicia there are currently 550 textile companies that employ 21,800 workers, 85% of whom are women. And yet, the associations criticize the insufficient financial support that the sector receives and point out that, if nothing is done about it, between 20% and 25% of all textile businesses will disappear in Galicia. Do you think this is arranged with a discount that, of course, we don't say it's not necessary, because to encourage consumption is it? Or with a walk by President Feijóo via Pontevedra visiting the local trade? No, no, no, no. We need the Galician Union to act and do it quickly with an action plan that prevents, or at least reduces, the continued loss of jobs in this sector. It's a difficult situation that needs quick measures that manage to maintain as many jobs as possible, that avoids the closure of centres and retail shops. They need generation renewal programmes, they need direct help related to the maintenance of employment, and they also use their skills to establish training and recycling measures for all those who are enlarging the lists of the Public Employment Service in Galicia. The government of the state has already entered, transferred 234 million euros to this sector; and I wanted to tell you to answer us, if you can, when you plan to use those funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Close the question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u184	Thank you, President. I believe that the measures we are taking are, as I say, joint aid schemes for the different sectors of which are very specific the aid I have just mentioned for the trade sector. But I would also like to mention all the support that is being made through Igape; through financing line loans, in particular they have already benefited from lines of funding last year by having precisely 2,300 companies in the trade sector supported by 150 million euros. The Reactive Trade line, which supported the adequacy of trade spaces with the requirements that it marked. And also the 4.0 digitization aid initiatives, which are aids with an overall intensity of 50%, but in the case of textiles, 70%. In addition to all this, there are rescue plans. The Union's first and second rescue plan for more than 180 million euros, of which the merchant sector was the second after the facility most benefited from these plans. In particular, from the first rescue plan there were 1,100 autonomous and micro-enterprises of trade with an investment of more than 2.5 million euros in favour of them. The second rescue plan still pays 10% of the total amount, but we have already approved 1,211 aid for traders and lawyers, EUR 2,578.000 for the Galician trade sector. The third rescue plan, with these EUR 238 million, is about to be completed with the drafting of the call order, so I can confirm to you that the call for this aid will be issued on the first 15th of June. And I would also like to complete the intervention in relation to the training that we are, indeed, also giving to support the self-employed sector and, very specifically, the neighbourhood trade sector, with a digital action training package geared towards the acquisition of knowledge in new technologies and in necessary skills in the field of work with the Digital Self-Government program, with which we will train in electronic commerce until the end of June in a free way 1,200 workers and self-employed. And in addition to the Road Training Program, which is aimed at facilitating workers and self-employed people in sectors of the Way's own economic activity, such as small trade, with digital knowledge, management skills, soft skills, and language knowledge. It is 4 million euros that we intend to reach 1,500 autonomouss. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u185	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the progress made in the provision of new technologies for diagnosis and technological improvement of surgical blocks in the Galician Health System
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u186	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, every day technology becomes more fundamental in many aspects of life and, if we talk about health, it becomes essential. Every year there are more innovations and advances in this sector. Medical technology is able to simplify many processes and achieve more and better positive results. Technology saves lives, improves our health and, in many cases, contributes to sustainable health. It's a series of advantages and benefits that come with it and it's necessary to take advantage of it. For example, medical technology has been able to reduce hospital stay by an average of 13%. Digitization has also been one of the fundamental pillars of improving health care that Galicia has experienced in recent years. It's obvious that technology is here to stay and incorporate into our lives in a definitive way, and of course it's also part of many processes within the healthcare field, especially with regard to diagnosis and surgical interventions. We know in addition to the need to have new diagnostic equipment through images to improve the diagnostic capacity of Sergas towards an improvement in the quality of patient life and greater precision in interventions. Despite all the advantages and improvements of technological advances, the opposition continues without the candles or does not value them. And curiously in November last year, with the abstention of the opposition parties, an initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group to improve the provision of technology in Greek public health. We want and see fundamental improvements in technological equipment, both for diagnostics and for surgical devices, in particular in order to expand the use of uninvasive techniques. At the beginning of this same month in which we are, the president announced at the Council of the Union the purchase by the Galician Board of 7 new robotic surgical systems, those known as Da Vinci, for the entire Greek health system. That is why today, Counsellor, Members of the People's Party are interested in knowing that progress has been made on the allocation of new technologies for diagnosis and technological improvement in surgical blocks in the Galician Health System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u188	Good afternoon, president and gentlemen. Mrs. Friend, as you were progressing, the president of the Galician board, at the beginning of this month, at the board of directors announced the purchase by the board of seven teams, of these seven da Vinci robotic surgical systems for the entire Greek health system. And I say to the whole Greek health system because it's one for every health area. The acquisition of these robots means an investment of EUR 20.5 million and the fundamental objective is to facilitate the approach of certain pathologies that without this technology would be in many cases impossible to treat. We are faced with a new advance in Welsh public health that incorporates in this way a cutting-edge technology and, I repeat, in all health areas, since it will be treated in addition to the last model of this type of robot with an important investment not only in buying but also in maintenance. These types of systems basically make vision easier, because they allow you to see in more than 2 dimensions, in 3, and they also make a better position for the surgeon. They're going to make an important breakthrough for the entire health system and it's going to have an impact on the improvement in the first place of resources, since greater accuracy avoids blood loss and thus reduces the number of transfusions and consumption of the blood bank. And it means, above all, a lower stay of patients. Secondly, with regard to professionals who allow access to complex areas, a reduction in intervention time, greater precision in movement, and ultimately reducing the difficulty of having greater vision capacity. Both these improvements in resource management and those affecting professionals are, of course, a benefit of the patient, since, in addition to the improvement in the care it is supposed to offer, they can address more complex operations and thus reduce morbidity and mortality, pain or, above all, the days of hospitalization. And also a significant reduction in post-operative times. This new system is going to be applied to all the specialties in which it has curvature, essentially urology, general surgery, gynecology, thoracic surgery probably, pediatric surgery or otorrinolaryngology. We've just been taking with the heads of service some of these specialties meetings these past few weeks working for coordination and greater optimization of this type of equipment. To this end, a central commission will be set up for the development of robotic surgery, with colleagues from the Directorate-General for Health Care and also from Economic Resources and, above all, one representative of each of these specialties in this committee. And in parallel there will be specific subcommittees for each of these specialties. This is how it is to define the most appropriate programming of this type of equipment so that its use is homogeneous throughout the health system and to get as much performance as possible from it. We're also obviously going to work on training these professionals in the knowledge of the team and also on the indicators of proper use and -- I repeat -- in all health areas. This qualitative leap in the provision of professional human resources believes the technology bet Sergas is making and will allow Galicia to remain in the health vanguard of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u189	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u190	Thank you very much, Counselor for your answer. The commitment of Junta is firm, the Greek health is in good hands and we move forward with the times in the improvement of our health and the vanguard of medicine. We are pleased to know that this initiative that we have been presenting since the People's Party in Commission 5. It's getting real. This lack of commitment on the part of the opposition does not surprise us either, nor did it support the assumptions, despite this strong commitment by the Galician Union to health care and to put the highest budget of the last few years to the service of public health in Galicia. In spite of everything, despite the opposition, I will say, even today, the Greeks can expect great progress in our health care. Thanks to technological advances, important studies have been conducted that allowed scientists and researchers to be able to analyse more deeply about different diseases. And we've also recently seen how the Santiago Clinic Hospital started treatment with high-intensity focal ultrasound, advanced technology for the treatment of parkinson and primary tremors. An area in which Galicia is a pioneer, since we have the first public hospital throughout Spain to count on this technology. It is essential to have new diagnostic equipment through the image to improve the diagnostic capacity of Sergas in different specialties, which, coupled with a technological improvement in the surgical field, will allow an improvement in the quality of life of the patient and a better accuracy of interventions. That's what it's all about. And so, Counsellor, we would like this second shift to broaden our information on that technological purchase. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u191	Thank you, my friend. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u192	Thank you very much. Indeed, Mrs. Friend, in this commitment for technology, we have to add the seven teams that previously commented, surgical robots, the recent incorporation into Sergas of the so-called HIFU, implanted in the hospital of Santiago and which enables the treatment of the moment of essential tremors in patients who well without going through the surgery can assume or address that intervention which, of course, changes their lives in a matter of minutes. We could all check through the media what were the results of the use of this technology that we now have in Galicia and, as you well said, the only autonomous community that makes it possible. That's why Sergas carried out an investment of 2.4 million euros, thanks to which we will even attend to the seventh patient in the history of this team tomorrow. We continue to renew other equipment, in this case radiosurgeons associated with surgery, too, which announced the president at the beginning of March. These computers will count on technology by incorporating the digital detector and have been auctioned for 4.3 million euros. They are 37 teams that have just been assisted in these days, in particular last week, and that, once formalized the contract with companies, they will join the hospitals. Three of them are intended for vascular surgery, especially for complex techniques, such as endovascular repair of both arterial and peripheral bases in lower limbs, carotid system, degenerative disease of the thoracic and abdominal aorta, both occlusive and aneurysm. I mean, complex processes, he said in vascular surgery. And the equipment will be destined for Ourense, Lugo and Santiago. And the remaining 34 teams are intended for the renewal of routine radiosurgical equipment in surgeons that will allow follow-up and control of general surgery interventions, traumatology, orthopaedics, urology, etc. Computers allow better image quality, of course, greater image integration capacity with the information system, in addition to, of course, using lower doses. In this way, we continue to advance the technological renewal of Sergas equipment with greater accuracy and safety in the treatment and interventions of patients. Both the HIFU and the radiosurgeons continue to carry out what is in place in the Health Equipment Renewal Plan scheduled for this year 2021, which also fulfils the mandate of this Parliament to which the Board will allocate 60 million euros, of which 28.9 are already explained in these equipments and 28.6 will also be intended for the renewal of high-tech equipment for diagnosis. We're talking about magnetic resonance imaging, TACs, PETs, digital radiology, hemodynamics, electrophysiology, vascular radiology, which will allow for improvement in diagnosis. In addition, today's auction comes out the equipment of the pharmacy services of Monforte, Naval Hospital, Valdeorras Hospital and Santiago Hospital, with an investment of 3.1 million euros. This contract also includes the work of reform and expansion that is being carried out in these hospitals. Finally, he said, we're still working on improving not only the surgical block with these robotic equipment, but also with other important aspects in hospital technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u193	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Elena Candia López and 13 other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on improvements in health infrastructures and services implemented in hospitals in the province of Lugo since 2010
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u194	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Counselor. This year in Lugo we are celebrating the anniversary of the HULA, ten years of operation of the Luus Augusti University Hospital. They've successfully completed ten years since the hospital was launched, which I assumed was a turning point in the Welsh health and, of course, in the health they shine. And I'm saying this because in the last few weeks, different acts have been held in the hospital at the end of this anniversary, where they have been patented by the professionals who work there, that we work there, the improvements that have been made in the services that exist up to that moment in the city and in the new services that have been launched linked to the hospital. The professionals working in the hospital are the great value that this hospital has, all of this, aside from the advantages that it is supposed to count from the architectural point of view with a modern, vanguardist center. This great human capital has become manifest in the meetings held with the gallon of the anniversary of the center itself in these past few weeks, more specifically it has been put into value that sense of belonging that the hospital professionals showed, that pride of working at the HULA was patented in each and every one of the exhibitions. I also want to value what is transmitted from the different hospital services, what the professionals who work and care for patients daily say. I'm talking about what they say, what these professionals say. They agree to put in value the excellent health and the services of which the lumens we have, and also all agree to say that in this pandemic we are going through if hard moments have passed, very difficult times, moments of impotence, but they never lacked anything. Coordination between services was excellent. What we value is that we count on a health system that, if it hadn't, wouldn't have drawn the pandemic crisis this way. Nothing to do with health so catastrophic that we paint the opposition and we listen to it every day in this House. There is no doubt that the Lucus Augusti Hospital is part of the major Spanish hospitals and, I can say, one of the major European hospitals. And this is a testimony to various recognitions that are made at the HULA to different services, such as cardiology, internal medicine or oncology. But the wager of the Government of Galicia, the Government of Feijóo with the process of the comprehensive renewal of the Galician Health Service transcends the event in Lugo; in fact, it has also been reflected throughout the province, in addition to the HULA, which has been constantly equipped and improved in the last ten years. Many improvements have been experienced in health care in Galicia, but today, Counsellor, I would like to put Lugo Members' voice to ask him what improvements in health facilities have been made in the last ten years at Lugo hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u195	Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u196	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Friend, in fact, at the beginning of May we celebrated -- I could be there -- the tenth anniversary of Lugo's hospital, I could notice, feel that feeling of pride, belonging to all professionals, from all categories. And I want to take this opportunity to publicly make a recognition in Parliament of this high commitment from the professionals at Lugo Hospital and this big hospital. [[Applause]] A hospital that, as you well say, is a reference throughout Europe and, of course, throughout the Spanish state. Yesterday he received the fourth prize from the Spanish Society of Internal Medicine. A hospital that was launched under President Feijóo's government, which was also the one who finished the works and, above all, equipped with initial equipment, that more than 25.8 million euros that had to be put into operation. Besides, they've been increasing the services provided in this center. Since January 2014, the hemodynamics room has been in operation and it was in the year 19 that patients were able to count on this service 24 hours a day, and that year 1,600 patients were already treated. Also in the 16th radiotherapy oncology began, reaching that year to treat 1,000 patients with 17,000 sessions, or nuclear medicine as well, with more than 1,800 tests in that same year. In addition, performances were also performed in the area of neurology, and the 24-hour guard was available for the attention of the stroke, which was this year, in February 2020. And important actions were also carried out in emergencies and critical units, individualizing boxes, as much demand and as necessary in a context as in the pandemic. In 19th, a heart electrophysiology room and a new heart rehabilitation treatment room were also incorporated. We started in 2020 with the renewal of the oncohematologic hospital, where a new treatment room with twelve rooms was set up; and this also allowed for restructuring the entire activity of the oncohematologic day hospital and responding in a short time possible to different treatments and types of oncologic cycles in better conditions of comfort for patients and professionals. In addition, this also allowed for increased safety for patients and workers throughout the day hospital. In addition, since 2009 investments have generally been carried out for 6.1 million euros in high technology for the best care of patients. Even so, as in the rest of Galician hospital centers, we carried out a series of improvements in the humanization of spaces with interventions in waiting rooms, citizen participation programs, volunteering programs, for example, the Solidary Garden, and patient associations also participated. And in the framework of the Sergas Diagnostic Equipment Renewal Plan of my previous question, the decision was also made to incorporate a PET tomograph into the nuclear medicine service, completing the gammacamera and the TAC that are installed there. So we're moving forward in improving service equipment structures at the disposal of all citizens in the province of Lugo and this year they can celebrate the tenth anniversary of that hospital knowing that the Health Council continues to bet and incorporate technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u197	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u198	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. Luminenses know that they have a government that is committed to their health, that they bet on the city, and that they also bet on the province. He told us about the improvements of the HULA. And in this second part we wanted you to tell us about the rest of the hospitals in the province. Those hospitals that the opposition has been closing for years, but that instead of closing them, Junta bets on providing them with more and better services, bringing specialists closer to the patient, growing in both structural improvements and services. So, for example, in the area of oncology, a pathology that is very sensitive to the entire population, was seen as an over-specialized oncology and with a reference oncologist to the two hospitals in Lugo, both in the Navy hospital and in the Monforte hospital; both of them have the same oncology specialists who have the city hospital, Lucus Augusti. And if we talk about infrastructure, Mr. Counsellor, in the Navy hospital, in Burela, a first extension has ended and projects have just been proposed in the following phases. And also the Monforte Hospital in the south is in work, working on the work of the Oncohematological Day Hospital, so we know, a first step in that plan director that is already approved. And that's why in this second part we'd like you to talk to us about the improvements that health care has in these two hospitals in the province of Lugo that so many criticisms have received from the opposition. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. Mr. President. In fact, at the Monforte Hospital, we wanted to point out that the work of the Oncohematological Day Hospital reform was already started at the end of March. I would also like to join your recognition to the medical oncology service of the Lucus Augusti Hospital because, in addition to growing into two medical oncology specialists, these two specialists instead of being destined exclusively at Monforte or Burela hospital, they move in a way, as you said, they specialize and the same medical oncologist who carries lung cancer in Monforte takes him to Lugo and takes him to Burela. On this basis, which is nothing simple to achieve, they did precisely works of reform of the multipurpose day hospital, in addition to the subsequent work in the pharmacy service. Actions at the Monforte hospital for 1.4 million euros. These works will allow the spaces to be expanded in the case of the oncoholic day hospital and the multipurpose hospital, which will also increase the treatment posts. Regarding the pharmacy service linked to medical oncology, it will also be expanded with new and modern spaces, with two external dispensation offices and also a series of pharmacies that will also allow to robotize it with two [...] This pharmacy equipment leaves today's bid to be able to count on it once the works are finished and can be made available to professionals and patients as soon as possible. With this reform, the hospital earns in functionality and better care and care for the patient, the staff of administrations and the media. We're also moving forward in the master plan, which has 15 million euros, and will undoubtedly involve an integral reform of the entire hospital. The forecast is to reorder, reform and modernize about 10,000 square meters. These first steps were taken by involving these first works, and the creation of an area of 10 new consultations, including a home hospitalization unit, palliative care, occupational health or preventive medicine. The following steps will be the reform of the hospitalization areas, starting with the gynaecology and pediatrics plant. In the case of the Navy hospital, we have spoken recently in this plenary session, the board continues to move forward in the improvement of all its facilities. We have already finished phases 0 and 1A, with the execution of a new building for external consultations and hospitalization, as well as a new parking lot; phase 1B, in which the reform of the existing building was carried out, completed at the end of 2019. The next step is to run phases 2 and 3 with the construction of a new attached building. Several areas of the existing building will also be reformed, we will expand the emergency zone, we will reform the outpatient surgery area, the reform of the UPRA and the unit of critics. The basic project of execution and optional direction of these two phases is now under tendering and has already completed the submission phase of the tenders to which three companies have submitted themselves. So we continue to work on the improvement of infrastructures, which are not only concrete, but are always equipped with new spaces, new services and new services, especially, as it is clear, in relation to comarcas hospitals, so we continue to bet on their renovation and equipment. And, of course, we'll meet the needs from that Lucus Augusti Hospital, a pointing hospital available to all the lumens. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u201	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Alexandra Fernández Gómez and three other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the creation of a food disorder unit in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u202	Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u203	A few days ago, we knew the story of a 15-year-old girl in Vigo who has a food behaviour disorder that led her to drastically reduce food intake, and the first thing this girl did and her family went to public health to seek treatment. And what they've checked is that the public system doesn't respond. First, because this type of disorder is essential to be dealt with quickly and intensively, and the reality they have found is that between medical appointments were going through weeks, because they lack professional and especially in mental health. Secondly, because this type of disorder requires coordinated intervention by a team of different specialists: endocrinologists, psychologists, psychiatrics. But instead of receiving this joint approach, you're forced to go through a genuine career of obstacles in one specialist, in a process that spreads for months. And the consequences of having to wait so long is that in the meantime that girl ate and that this girl's health was getting worse. So I think it is obvious that there is a very bad endowment and organization of resources to address these kinds of disorders, and that is also the reason that private consultations are full of cases like this and that many cases that could evolve favourably with rapid treatment worsen. So I hope that at least you share this diagnosis, that the public system in the field of prevention and early treatment will fail these disorders, and it also fails when the disease gets worse. And here I take the example of this case in particular, because, when you decide on this girl's hospital admission, Sergas sends her to the General Psychiatry Unit of the Hospital Alvaro Cunqueriro instead of entering it where she had to be, which is in the Food Disorders Unit. And why don't you get into that unit? Well, all right, because there are no squares, because in Galicia there is only one unit of food disorders in Santiago, which has only 3 beds in the area of acute hospitalization, 5 in the area of prolonged hospitalization and a space for 8 patients in the area of the day hospital. And what this case reveals is that a single unit of food disorders throughout the country is insufficient, and that there are dozens of people in the same situation as this girl who is excluded from treatment that is vital, and I say so, that it is vital because she depends on her own life. That's why we've been asking you since the BNG to start up once and for all this Food Disorder Unit in Vigo, which we not only propose from the Nationalist Block in Wales, but that the president of this House himself has already proposed in 2015 and which is still not in place. We ask them to take decisive steps to ensure that this unit has at least the same areas as Santiago's unit, with sufficient staff to ensure that these patients receive intensive, continued treatment from a multidisciplinary team. That's why I ask you if you're planning to launch once for all that unit and for when
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u205	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Fernández. First of all, I have to say that I was surprised that you kept this question on the agenda, since last week we were finally able to take the first step so that this Child Youth Psychiatric Hospitalization Unit to meet the needs of southern Galicia was a reality, just as I promised in this plenary few weeks ago. Last Wednesday, the bid for this unit was published for an amount of 70,000 euros. Once we count on the project, we will be able to bid for the execution of the works, which are included within a EUR 2.7 million match to do reform works at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. For this reason, it will not only be necessary to carry out these actions, but we will also be providing staff with the necessary personnel to assist her, in this case 2 psychiatrists, 1 psychologist, 1 occupational therapist, 1 celler and a large nursing team specializing in mental health. This type of unit becomes necessary when all ambulatory treatment options are exhausted and specific treatment is required with a high degree of specialization of care and hospital income. For now, as you well say, we only have this resource at Santiago Hospital and, with the new Vigo unit, we will fulfill our commitment to also equip the south of our community. Vigo's Children's Youth Unit will occupy a space of over 600 square meters, and according to its plan, and on the basis of the project's bid, it will have a 6-room aid zone, convertible to double -- the same area that Santiago has right now, which also has 6 -- and also specific areas for the work of the professionals. In addition, you will have a playground, a school, an office for teachers and also, of course, a waiting room for escorts and a toilet area for these. It should be borne in mind that this unit will be specially adapted to these types of patients, in this pediatric case, with the objective of ensuring their safety, something so important in the units of this type. I repeat that for the Galician Union mental health in this context of pandemic, and also for the post-pandamy, is a priority. That is why we continue to work on implementing the commitments of the Mental Health Plan, such as this one; to complete this year's recruitment of the 120 committed professionals for the years 2020 and 2021; and to put in place new mental health outpatient units, such as those of adults who will come into operation in the coming weeks in Tui or Child Youth, which will be set up at the Nicolás Peña Hospital, once the staff recruitment process is completed, in addition to the Children's Day Hospital in Vigo. Therefore, we will continue to take the steps envisaged in the Mental Health Plan to complete the resources available to the Greeks in this area of care. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u206	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u207	It's true, Counselor, that you are very agile to go out with press notes when the issues go out to the public, but the reality is that this girl's specific case has not been solved; even though you went out the next day with a press note, that girl never came to the Food Disorders Unit. You announce things very quickly in the press, and it's also true that what they promise, that new day hospital with a specific program for food disorders won't solve the problem either. For two very easy questions: first, because it's not an exclusive phenomenon of childhood and youth, there's a lot of adult people who have this problem and more and more, and so you're just going to cover a small part of the people who have this disorder; and secondly, because it doesn't include prolonged hospitalization or acute hospitalization when Santiago's Food Disorder Unit is collapsed and there's a lot of people who aren't able to access it. So you're not going to solve part of the problem that exists. We also believe that these promises also lack human resources. According to the announcements, today you already raise the number of professionals that will be in that day hospital with respect to what they announced in the press release, but in any case it is less than what is in the Food Disorders Unit of Santiago. And it's crucial that these units start up with enough professionals. In any case, we believe that it is necessary to address this Unit of Complete Food Disorders, just like Santiago has, because this is a problem that is getting more and more. In 2015, Mr. President of this House said that this was a necessity because these diseases are frequent and have a higher mortality rate than any other psychiatric disorder. Well, specialists in this matter are alerting a very worrying increase of cases; so if that unity was needed in 2015 then in 2021 it's even more necessary. Let's insist again, when he's gonna put that unit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u209	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Fernández, I, as I said, announced it here in Parliament at a meeting weeks ago, I said that this unit was going to be gifted, that we were going to do the project, and last week it was ligated, not in the press, in the CEO the project was ligated. I don't know what else I can tell you. It has been claimed for 70,000 euros, and here I commit myself before and I commit again now that there will be 2 psychiatrists, 1 psychologist, 1 occupational therapist, 1 celler and a large nursing team specializing in mental health. Now you'll tell me that's not enough; well, we'll probably have to keep trying, because, unfortunately, I agree with you that this pathology can continue to grow and we'll have to continue to adapt. I don't agree with you that we haven't solved the problem in adults. So I think you have to check out and talk to the psychiatrists and realize that, indeed, no matter how unfortunate this disease is, in the pathology of adults, I think it's perfectly resolved with first-line specialists. It's obviously all better. If you insist on me when the unit is going to be? Well, as you know, projects have a run time, space is destined, it says it's 600 square meters, it's agreed with professionals, which has cost quite a lot from the start, and this unit is embedded within a much broader project, which is the mental health plan, which we are committed to providing money economically with the millions needed for structures like this case and also with staff. We're already hiring staff, 14 psychiatrists are already hired, for example, 7 primary liaison, 7 in hospital. A mental health unit has recently been set up in Orders; it will be launched in Tui; one more unit is planned in Oleiros and another in this case in Ponteareas. We're working in infant-juvenile day hospitals, as well as in outpatient units. I mean, everything that's covered in the mental health plan, especially in the child-child field, we're putting it into action. We trust the experience and knowledge of the professionals who are now carrying this kind of pathologies, which I think they are doing with a great deal of dignity. It's true that Santiago's unit can't meet all needs. I also have to say that this girl's case -- of which I'm not going to give any more details obviously, neither did you -- is she currently awaiting entry into this unit. It was number 3 per priority, according to the priority that the service itself performs on the basis of an eminently clinical criterion, and when the service here in Santiago understands that it has to enter, because it will. In that sense, I repeat that we believe that this attention must be improved and there are the facts, a project called for and a work that, as soon as we have the project, will begin to build, I can't tell you more or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u210	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the forecasts of the Galician Union for legislative reform that avoids the incompatibility of Galician social inclusion income with the minimum vital income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u211	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, and good afternoon counselor. Since today's BNG we have asked you something clear, direct and concise, which is when will end the Galician Union with the incompatibility that exists today between Risk and other benefits, namely the minimum vital income? Because that incompatibility that is collected in Galicia's Social Inclusion Act is bringing enormous problems to people who, if allowed, all their lordships already have enough. People who are being indebted, extremely vulnerable, to be able to return the counties perceived by the Risk, which now the Galician Union is demanding from them. 10 months of accounts received by Risga and which now the Government of Greece is demanding from you because you have decided not to reform the Galician Social Inclusion Act, nor to adopt an exceptional regulation in view of the situation in which we are found and of urgency, as other territories and other autonomous communities have done, which has exempted you from paying to a population that is not responsible for the inability of governments. They don't blame these people for the Spanish Government's inability to process in time and form the minimum vital income, to speed up and facilitate the processing of that allowance which is taking many months; but they don't have the blame for the failure of the Board to avoid the avoidable. Because this is not something that should surprise anyone, the fact that it's incompatible with Risk with other benefits, such as the minimum vital income, because, I insist, this is something you already knew, because it's collected in the Galician Social Inclusion Act 2013, it's not something that survived. We're talking about people entering 400 euros -- or a little more -- a month, most women who are now facing claims of up to 5,000 euros by perceived accounts. And you, in the face of this situation, advisor, instead of solving the problem, have decided to patch it up, have decided to allow payment to be postponed, right, for a maximum of 30 months; but, of course, one wonders what people are asking. What is saving the minimum living income when it's the only income they have so they can pay you the risk accounts? This may mitigate -- we don't say that it doesn't -- in some cases the problem, but it doesn't solve the problem. [[Applause]] At the BNG today, we are making two proposals to put an end to this situation. Two proposals which are complementary, which can be adopted both: firstly, that the Union adopts urgently - as it did in October 2020 the Canary Government - a measure that allows the compatibility of the two benefits to prevent such returns from being made by extremely vulnerable people. And secondly, the proposal for the reform of the Act of inclusion to be compatible with Risk with other benefits is brought forward as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Thank you. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u213	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodil, I was going to say and I wanted to thank you today for the focus of your question, because when I read it, I think it was a question that was written seriously, in measure and strictly that deserved a question like this. Although today I don't know what happened to him that he started to harden himself very much. The truth is that I share with you that Galician social inclusion policies are the last lifesaver of the worst people going through, but they are also a lifesaver that these people need to go ahead and resume their own lifesaver. That's why, although we consider that the minimum vital income is a necessary benefit, from the beginning we warn that its design and its ways in which the Central Government handled this approval were completely inappropriate. Since last April we started talking about this aid, we have notified the whole Central Government, we have warned Minister Escribá, we have notified former President Pablo Iglesias, we have even warned President Sánchez of the evas that he was presenting this help. First of all, we warned that social security was unable to manage this aid and that there would be great delays. Secondly, we also warned that there would be imbalances between the new allowance and the autonomous incomes, which have existed for decades. And thirdly, we anticipate that there would be overlaps, that there would be duplication and we ask the Central Government to take all the measures necessary to prevent it. And you know what? They didn't listen to us. And time gave us reason. But, frankly, in a matter as delicate as this one has or is not right, it's what matters the least, because what we really care about is to solve this situation caused by the rush and improvisation of the central government. We've been working with the anti-poverty entities for many months in line to reform the Social Inclusion Act. We are collecting and valuing all their ideas, which are always attached to social reality. That's why the Galician Union will begin in the next quarter the process of reform of the Social Inclusion Act, but for that it is essential that the minimum income regulation that we are going to adapt to be finally a stable regulation, because the real decree that creates this benefit must already be the most modified legal text in Spain's history; in less than 12 months it has already been changed in more than a dozen changes. It has changed in the Royal Decree of Urgent Measures of Economic Reactivation, in the Royal Decree of Distance Labour; a week later in the Royal Decree of Social Measures to Defend Employment, in a resolution of the State's general intervention; four days later it was re-modified in the Royal Decree of Urgent Measures; also in a Royal Decree of Law to Reduce the Gender Breakdown.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u214	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u215	And now the new ones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u216	Thank you. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u217	Thank you, President. Look, I don't know if I'm more or less tough on the role than in the oral version, I'm the same person, the same political project, and we're telling you the same in writing as now, which is that we need to reform Galician Social Inclusion Act. [[Applause]] I'll be predictable -- I'm not saying no -- you don't cheat either, you don't move a script line, counselor. [[Applause]] And let me tell you something: the Government of Spain will have a lot of guilt, Spain will have a lot of guilt for everything, but reforming the Act of Social Inclusion depends on this House, its Government and this Parliament. Neither Pablo Iglesias nor Pedro Sánchez, nor Congress, nor the Government of Spain; it depends on the people we are here now and those who are outside that cannot be in here but who are part of this House. [[Applause]] That's why we told you from the BNG that Risga was incompatible with any other benefit of the same nature, with any other, it's not in particular, it's also this, but not only the minimum vital income, we knew it since 2013 because it appears so collected in the law. You right now, I hear it, how many times they warned them was because they knew it was the Greek legislation that makes our autonomous allowance incompatible with any other of the same nature. So I repeat again, the proposals we made from the BNG immediately, like other governments, nothing illegal, the canary government. The canary government has approved an urgent measure to prevent this happening now, that people who receive only EUR 400-450 per month are being asked to return amounts amounting to EUR 5,000. It's a real barbarity to ask for 5,000 euros of return on aid to people who have no more income than those social benefits because otherwise they wouldn't perceive them. We ask them -- and they can do it at the next board of directors -- to approve precisely this, which in the meantime does not reform the Act of Social Inclusion if they avoid what is happening now, which are those claims. And then that would come right away -- as this group has already requested in December 2020 -- that proposal for reform of the inclusion law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Thank you. Close the question. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u219	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil, believe me, I'd rather not have to ask all the people who took the risk and but charged the minimum vital income that would normalize their situation, because to all these people we supported them with self-employment while they were months, months and months waiting for the state benefit. And now, when months later it was found that they received both benefits, we are obliged to act like this, because legally we have no other option. It's a bad drink that's going through Galicia, but it's also going through a lot of other autonomous communities that acted the same way as Galicia, and we understand it's the right way. And to alleviate the consequences of this legal obligation, we are giving all the facilities for this situation to return to normal. Plan A, establishing a bridge between the central government and Galicia to compensate for payments without having to bother all these families; the ministry has already told us no. Plan B, a 30-month term, which is two and a half years, to return these accounts. And plan C, for families especially vulnerable and with minors in charge, can analyze the debt forgiveness of up to EUR 3,400. The short-term objective is clear, which is to cushion the consequences of this chronicle of an announced misfortune. In the medium term and with a vocation of permanence, our goal is clear, which is the reform of Galicia's Social Inclusion Act to adapt it to the new situation. For that moment, I would really like to ask you, Mrs. Rodil, that the Nationalist Block in Wales is not the party you said not to the Demographic Push Law. You really believe me, Madam, that it's more useful -- and not for me, but it's more useful for Galicia -- when the Galician Nationalist Block is the party that supports the Galician Union in claiming the management of the minimum vital income. Because, Madam, I am convinced that we will be able to find ourselves and that we will be able to achieve very important things. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the action measures of the Government of Greece regarding the fixing of the price of milk
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u221	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, last year Reny Picot offered and signed three-month contracts for Greek dairy farms fearing a price drop. That was his apology, for at that time, in the full state of alarm, the demand for milk had grown seriously, and, according to market laws, the highest demand for price. Or? Lactalis Puleva, the milk industry that collects in Galicia, around 20 percent, has also reviewed its contracts last year in the early summer, contracts that took only a few months of vigency and are theoretically annual, it says to adapt to what new decree we don't know. But the culmination of these usual [mafias] practices that you cover and call free market, because the full rise is when several of these industries submit contracts whereby producers are obliged to sign prices below the cost of production by saying yes, that they cover the costs of production, all of this under the threat of stopping them from collecting milk if they do not sign. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] Some of these industries, in a supreme exercise of cynicism proper to La Cosa Nostra, introduce confidentiality clauses so that this is not known and cannot be formally denounced. Of course, the food chain law says that production costs must be the basis of the negotiation of written contracts and must include in food contracts the indication that the agreed price covers the actual cost of production. And who's responsible for fixing that price in an objective way that doesn't allow interested variations and facilitates a balanced negotiation? Who should arbitrate this negotiation in view of the fact that there are no abuses of the strongest part on the weakest part, in this case the primary producer? Look, the absence of an objective benchmark of production cost that marks the minimum top to be negotiated, the absence of a real study of these costs and the failure of an arbitration mechanism by the Greek Administration makes the sector at the will of the distribution industry, of its failures. There is, therefore, continued extortion to the German dairy sector when the industry for the same product and with the same qualities pays less on this side of the river Navia, reaching the difference to 4 cents. And you're seeing them come. Look, the BNG is concerned about the passivity of its counseling in the face of these events that we consider to be very serious, that not only happens to dairy producers, but that in this case they give more when these industries are periodically donated with millions of grants with money from all of them -- those that we don't have active on the Cayman Islands -- subsidies by concepts such as the generation of added value, when what is done is only, for example, transforming liquid milk into powder. Counselor, when are you going to do something?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u222	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas. Good afternoon to all and to all. In any case, today we're in 2021 and we've been talking about a situation in 2020 that was also at a time -- I think everyone remembers it -- of the world's greatest pandemic. I say it was good, anyway, to update the data on it. But I would like to move, within this desire that we always have to inform, of course, and understanding that we are talking about one of the main sectors of the primary and the Greek sector, the dairy sector -- we are among the first 10 European regions in terms of milk production --. Obviously, we want to make clear what is the development of each of these sectors and we are dealing with the development of a strategy of the dairy sector; a strategy, Mr Rivas, which has 5 general objectives, 15 specific objectives, 39 measures and 125 actions. I am sure, as a voicer who is of the Middle Rural, who has read this strategy, but I think it clearly reflects what is the position of the Galician Union towards working in that support to our gain. And I'd like to move that, in addition to this strategy of the dairy sector, we're also about to present the strategy of the wine sector, it's already done and it's going to be presented, and it's currently being called the strategy of the meat sector. Planning to help develop a greater value added to our main sectors. And I'm going to answer at work, within the milk sector strategy, talking first about production costs, and in response time I'll also talk about what we're doing to value the price of milk. As for production costs, there are two actions that are already being carried out in a specific way. First of all, Mr Rivas, we are developing a very simple computer application -- and we will also have the opportunity to introduce it to all parliamentary groups -- of calculating production costs, with the objective of the gainee being able to object to that cost of production to then negotiate with the industry. And so we also want that to serve us -- according to the law of the food chain that you referred to, by the way, it's a state law -- that serves us to ensure that the minimum price of milk can be negotiated is that cost of production and the profit margin that corresponds to the payee. And another very important issue, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the gainful, who have to be conceived as entrepreneurs, who are what they are, is their training. And we bet on a corporate training, and I have to say that tomorrow I'm going to close the first course of that business training product of this strategy too; and the good result, the good acceptance that you have for our owners that kind of training will give or bring with you that we will soon have to do two more formations in Ribadeo and also again in Sergude. So I repeat to you, from the point of view of production costs, even now working on that computer application that will allow us or will allow our owners to defend their contracts against industry, on a line precisely of having that knowledge of production costs and of course also training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u224	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, you sent me back to last year. No, it's constant, it's been, since 2009 we're in this situation, so it's not last year. Secondly, it says that we are among the first 10 dairy regions in Europe. Don't notice, we're the worst prices we've got, and we're going on. And as for the milk strategy, of course I read it, I also read that you gave Oviganic 3 million euros for added value and turns milk that matters everything, all that milk, all the amount of milk matters from Castile and Lion, because it's sheep's milk, and it turns only for milk into powder. If that's the strategy of the dairy sector, then come and see God. As for the APP, we're certainly promised an APP, but, look, one that's an old dog and that knows those things in the free market and those things that you've studied differently from what is said today, but that's still the same way, do you want to tell me that with that APP 3 farms that have different production costs, the same industry is going to pay you different prices? Is that the free market of what you speak of the free world, of free competition? Will that app be able to do that? Are different industries going to pay different prices for the same milk or less to an exploitation that gets the cheapest milk and the other that gets the most expensive milk, because, for example, manages different or manages bad? That really would be the fulfillment of the Bolshevization of the Land Recovery Act. Well, what you understand by bolshevism. But, look, at BNG we're serious and formal people. We propose a categorization of farms by several factors, such as the number of heads, territorial base, hectares of forage, permanent pasture, the statement of the CAP and from there, you act as referee on a milk table, which was what you were going to do, but when you entered you had to blow it all over again. Of course, they do it well, and they also use those subsidies that they give,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u226	Thank you, Mr. Rivas, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u227	...sometimes cheerfully, to condition the industries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u228	Thank you, your time is up, Mr. Rivas. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u229	Mr. Rivas, I would ask you to have ever put aside ideological matters and discussed in depth what you really care about the gain. When he's talking about Oviganic, he's talking about a company that actually dries milk that doesn't exist in Galicia, because it's goat and sheep, but he's not saying that Oviganic has just bought a complaint and just got into the stockyard of that yellow milk gang. So I think you have to put everything you do on the table. Also in the body of his question he speaks of Inleit; Inleit, which is a company that is already buying more than 300 yellow gems and practically 200 million liters of milk. If you want to throw out these industries too, because they're multinationals and they don't leave added value here, and they're not helping the yellow cattle, they're not working with the yellow cattle so they can actually sell their product and have the necessary profitability. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, look, I was telling you before we talked about the first round of response to what we are doing in the area of production costs, and if it is true that this application will allow us to calculate production costs, evidently by range of farms. So there we would be very close to determination. But, speaking of the price, first of all, milk must be valued by its source. We have to defend, and we can -- we also say in the strategy -- the Galga 100 % brand within a quality Greek agri-food brand that will be presented this year. But, in any case, within that brand will be Galaga 100 % defending the source of Galicia as a reference of quality. I think the block shouldn't look too bad. Secondly, we have to support the diversification of our livestock towards products of greater added value: grazing milk. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union is the first autonomous community in Spain to officially regulate pastoral milk to prevent fraud. I'm sure there will be very little in Galicia but, in any case, we're going to defend quality and promote pastoral care by defining a mark of our own. By the way, the Law on the Recovery of Galician Land has as one of the fundamental objectives to provide our land-based agricultural holdings so that we can soon have that pastoralist we will be promoting in pastoral milk. Even if it's just because, man, we'd be totally wrong if we're promoting a brand and then we're not able to give territorial base to our livestock so they can make that grazing. And there's another question, ladies and gentlemen, that I'm particularly interested in. Beyond the fact that the owners have to become the processing industry, what brings with them the strategy is the support that these gainers become a sharer of these transformation industries. And I was telling him before that Oviganic and Our Milk is a good example of what is pushing the Galician Union. We're going to financially support our winnings so they can enter the shareholding of transformation companies so that through the distribution of dividends they can have that higher value added. In short, we work for our livestock, work for our primary sector, and work for Galicia to continue to grow from within, from rural. We're still doing rural Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-26-DSPG038.u230	Thank you, Counselor. I'd like to, Mr. Rivas, if I may wish to withdraw an expression that you used in your question. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm going to ask if that... I'm asking you to retire. Don't you take it off? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm asking you to retire, take that back, and, consequently, I have to call it in order. That's the point. And now, to finish, I wanted to thank you on behalf of the Transfusion Center and the Donation Unit, which you were here, for giving thanks to all Members and Members, and to the workers of this house, first for the prayers and second also because, in the words of the Director of the Transfusion Center, these measures help people to be aware of the importance of the prayers. And so I want to thank you. This is what the director of the Transfusion Center sent me, and I'll pass it on to all of you and the workers. And nothing else, we'll suspend the session. Well, it's over here.
