ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with agenda item 6, which is questions for the oral response of the President of the Union. And, before I begin, I want to comment that, today, I apologize for your inattentiveness to this full-time wife, Olalla Rodil Fernández. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to address the risks and effects of the sixth wave of the cowardice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u2	We therefore begin with Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Union, the Greeks and the Greeks, as many citizens in Spain and other countries, are concerned about the evolution of the coward and the sixth wave we are facing. And so we're just at a time when 1,000 cases of day-to-day cowardice are detected in Galicia, in which there are more than 10,000 people infected at this time, in which there are more than 200 people with hospital shelter and several decades of intensive care and surveillance units; at one time, therefore, after the vaccination strategy, there is a new stage, because since the summer, when the vaccination strategy began to be massive, until now the risk of more controlled infection, and now at Christmas gates, we're seeing some of the risks of transmission that concern us. It is true that Galicia has, in absolute data, a situation better than other parts of the state, but also that the contagions are now growing here more than elsewhere in the state. So we want to know, Mr President, how we are going to deal with this sixth wave, with what measures and what information from the Government of the Union can bring to the Greeks and to the Greeks. First of all, I wanted to ask you, Mr. President, how is the vaccination strategy for those Greeks that, already in a position to be vaccinated, aren't they vaccinated? It seems that the data show that there are 160,000 Welsh missing for vaccination and that the tracking system detected 21,000 of those 160,000. We want to know what strategy you have of vaccination and if there's already enough tracking system to detect those that are not vaccinated and to see the causes and possible actions to encourage vaccination that can reach 100 percent of the citizenry. Secondly, we would also like to ask you, Mr President, what is your approach to health professionals; if you are willing, at the risk of transmission this sixth wave, to re-contract the maximum number of health professionals who have been hired during the crisis of the coward. Because today you can give the data in greater detail, and there are over 500 health professionals who have been hired at other times in the pandemic and who are not now. Are you willing to make an effort to strengthen this recruitment of professionals instead of cutting funds to primary care and public health? Thirdly, I wanted to ask you also about your teaching plan, to strengthen teaching possibilities with more assurances against the risk of infection. Now there are 868 teachers less than in times when there were more teachers to be able to cope with the risk of the coward. You've decided to reduce the number of teachers and also increase the number of students per class, and in the education system there is a certain chaos. Now there are more than 800 cases of cowardice linked to educational centers, more than a hundred closed classes, teachers who undoubtedly have many risks and families who don't know how to deal with this because protocols are probably not working properly in the information and follow-up of cases. We must also look for all the mechanisms. The need to strengthen public services in matters such as health and education is fundamental to facing this sixth wave. And finally, I would also like to ask you, Mr President, as if you are facing this sixth wave and what are the necessary protocols, and if you, for the information you have through the experts, have on top of the table proposed to be able to confront Christmas with a certain strategy that you can communicate about protocols today. Because we believe that we must take the necessary measures, without leading them to points where medical reports do not advise all measures, but we must be realistic in the face of the risks and, no doubt, possibilities. And besides, as there are already certain increases in restrictions and more demanding protocols in front of the reception desk, I also wanted to ask you what your balance sheet is and what measures you are willing to take for the inn, which is already going to have to reduce certain levels of attendance at tables and meals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Knight. As you know, the Galician Union, the Government of Galicia, the Galego Health Service and all public employees, society in general, we always advance, as a general rule, all the steps taken in the rest of the state in relation to the pandemic. In fact, we went, together with Madrid, the first autonomous community to declare health emergency and suspend classes; we had to act in solitude, from a normative point of view; we sent an organic bill to the Spanish Government and we didn't even object to it; we approved a reform of the health law in Galicia, and the aim of the Spanish Government was to resort to that law. It is unfortunate that the Constitutional Court has once again activated the content and scope of that law! You were saying, how can it be done in some way that people can be vaccinated with greater intensity? With the certificate covered, Mr. Knight. If we demand the hidden certificate, like the vast majority of the countries of the European Union, people are getting more vaccinated. The problem is that the central government, as you know, did not at any time want to legislate with the certificate covered. We did, we legislate, and it was the first autonomous community that had a favorable judgment of the Supreme Court. So, Your Honor, we advance and innovate. The autocovid went out to Galicia, the pool cribs and samples went out to Galicia, the saliva samples started them in Galicia, and the passport covered, we started it and started it in Galicia. We approved rescue plans for the economic sectors, 600 million euros, most of them paid; all of them from Galicia paid 100 percent. We have made protocols in the Clinical Committee; it is the Clinical Committee that activates the protocols. And then the government, once evaluated, approves and implements them. The Clinical Committee will continue to be what increases and what implements the protocols in the coming weeks. And, of course, we increased the reinforcement personnel in the year 2021 — this 2021 — We're paying an average of 3,000 payrolls more in health than we paid in 2019; that's why I'm surprised at their accounts. And in the field of teachers, this course is paying 2,000 more teachers than we paid in the course of the year 2019 before the pandemic. That's why I'm surprised at their accounts. Regarding vaccination, what are we doing? Leading vaccination in Spain. We are the first autonomous community that double-dose vaccines to its people, 93.7%; Spain does not reach 90%. And we're back to being the autonomous community with more third-dose vaccines. The older 70 in Galicia are 87% vaccinated, 16 points more than the average in Spain; and in the case of Janssen vaccines in Galicia, 78% are twice the dose, 39 points more than the average in Spain. So, Your Honor, what we're following is being above the average of Spain in all the parameters that refer to the vaccine. What are we going to do? By insisting, Your Honor, on the need for the alert situation we live: masks in interiors, distances, hygiene, ventilation, tests, contact tracking, etc. We're going to extend the certificate to the gymnasiums, senior residences, day hospitals and massive events inside. And, with regard to vaccines, Your Honor, I can assure you that we are in a position to be able to bring all people from 60 to 70 to quote on December 13. Second decision: on December 15th, at twenty-four hours of having the first vaccines for children, we will begin to mention the children 11 and 10 and 9 years old on December 15th, 16th and 17th. Third decision: next week we will make available, free of charge, a test in the pharmacies for all mothers and all parents with children aged 5 to 11. If that test is positive, we'll do a contrast PCR. Fourth decision: We will refer to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia the request for a certificate covered also to attend mass events and cinemas. And, fifth decision: we will recommend, at dinners, meals and meetings, to reduce the number of meals per table; we will implement this in accordance with the protocol of the Clinical Committee, which is about to meet again. As you can see, Mr. Knight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u6	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u7	...we have more health personnel, more teachers, we are the autonomous community with more vaccines and we are within the three autonomous communities with less hospital income and ICU. And we're also Spain's autonomous peninsula community with a lower mortality since the pandemic began. That's why, Mr. Knight, I thank you for continuing to encourage us to keep working hard, but I can assure you that we are working with all that rigour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u9	...that the figures believe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u10	Thank you, President. For the reply, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we urge him to take action and strengthen public services. It is true that you make a biased and partial account, with a lot of data that you know to try to deal with a story built according to the speech you want to keep, but there are issues that need to be nuanced, Mr. President. Don't forget that the Health Act had to be corrected because the Constitutional Court told him. The hidden certificate, which you have applied, without judicial authorization, has also had to be stopped. So when you correct, they're right; and it's better to correct much of what's not right. And, for example, in the area of education, I am glad that they take more action and in this way recognize that until now there has been a specific problem that has not been properly managed by the responsible authorities, with many misinformation in many educational centres in Galicia, as there are many problems of saturation and chaos in many health centers in the country, with health in primary care saturated and with collisions in different places — in emergencies, for example — or with certain outbreaks, for example, at Montecelo Hospital. You do a job on foot in the country, on the foot of the Greeks and the Greeks, and you recognize the data as they are, Mr. Feijóo. His accounts are always a kind of makeup to give half-truth. You compare the data for health personnel and education from 2021 to 2019. Don't you know that the Greeks and the Greeks know that there was a year in 2020? Why don't you tell the Galicians that today have less health and less personal staff in educational institutions than last year? when that staff is supposed to strengthen the public services needed in education and necessary in health care. They're definitely going tow. If they took the measures in time, it would be better if public education had kept that maximum of teachers and teachers in the schools, with fewer pupils per class, the management of these would have been more appropriate, more able to give greater security to parents, mothers and families in our country. We urge you to take the necessary measures, but also to work to get the country out of the situation in which we are in economic and related fields of equality. Because this sixth wave also shows — and I would like to conclude with this — that this great crisis at which we are going to maintain a certain level of persistence that will have health, social and economic effects. We need to be able to take the necessary measures also by supporting the productive sectors and having all the necessary measures to strengthen public services, to modernise the economy, to generate jobs and to fight inequality. And to fight inequality, it takes more state of well-being, more of the public, more public health and more public education, and that's what it costs you to do, that they do it tow, that they give a lot of speeches, but in fact they don't. I want to ask you today: wouldn't public health and public education be better off in Galicia if you kept the number of contracts that were in 2020 and 2021? Why do you want to compare with 2019, forgetting that we currently have more funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u13	...more budgets than in 2019 and ultimately the challenge and the ability to wager for equality and for people with the best public services in the face of the pandemic. We urge you to do that, and, of course, all that is to defend those public services to deal with the cowardly thing will be the best guarantee for nobody to suffer any kind of inequality. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u14	Thank you, Mr. Knight. To close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Knight, I gave him the data and I'll repeat it again. Expenditure on educational staff is EUR 140 million more. In the course of 2020-2021, about 2019, we had 2,300 more teachers. And in this course 2021-2022 we have 2,095 more teachers. This is the data, Your Honor, it's not hiding anything at all. When you say we should increase the number of teachers, being the autonomous community with more teachers per student in Spain, along with Extremeura, are you making a whole amendment to the rest of Spain's fifteen autonomous communities, including all socialist communities? Your Honor, when we're talking about schools, I want to tell you that the problem with schools is that vaccines don't reach until day 13. And the problem is, we don't have vaccines for everyone. That is really the problem we have right now. And since we don't have vaccines for everyone, we have to vaccinate between the first and the second dose with a difference of eight weeks. That's the real problem. Why intoxicate when the real problem with the minors is that we don't have vaccines for everyone? Why don't you seriously talk about the serious issues, Mr. Knight? Just like on the health issue. We took to the health sector table the number of contracts we had to make for this 2021. We have 1,338 new squares - I say new - of statutory staff, of health personnel, in the budget of the year 2022. 1,338 new squares! Tell me what community is increasing staff. Look, in 2019 we paid 39,000 payrolls in Sergas. In 2021, we're paying 42,694 payrolls. This is 3,000 more payroll. There are lists that are exhausted. We can't hire more nurses because there are no nurses! Mr. Knight, why don't you have a little proportionality in your vision? And the most surprising thing about all of this is that I come to teach myself lessons in increasing public services when it turns out that the amendment adopted in Congress and Senate to introduce some EUR 9 billion or 10 billion of the budget I receive for the year 2022 the Socialist Party rejected it together with Podemos. Why don't they increase the budget for autonomous communities, which we have to continue to hire more teachers and health care workers this year 2021 and 2022? Do you know what Galicia would do for these 9,000 million euros of cash amendment? 558 million euros, and to which you voted that not for the Galician Union to have them. And I came here to give lessons of increased health and increased teaching expenses. But if the Socialist Party is able to say one thing and its opposite and it doesn't care at all! Look, Your Honor, we reiterate, we're going to try to get all the 60-year-olds to be quoted on Christmas 13 -- that is, in the next few days. On days 15, 16, 17, we started with children 10, 11 and 9 years old. Next week, all the Galician families will have a free trial in the pharmacies for their children from 5 to 11 years old, and if it's positive, we'll do a contrast PCR. Meanwhile, we're going to start vaccinating from December 15 to all those children to try to improve the situation. This is the result, Your Honor, and when we are the autonomous community with less mortality per inhabitant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u17	...and when the INE data has just been released, where the number of deaths last year has increased in Spain by 18% and Galicia by less than 5%, equivalent to Canary Islands and Balearics, we should at least value what the Galician Health Service has done and society in general. I think that's appropriate to be able to do it. [[Applause]] That's why, Your Honor, it's good that we agree that we have two problems. The first: that the Government of Spain and its partners prevent autonomous communities from having a hidden fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u19	...by the year 2022. And the second: that the problem we have with the minors, which is the main problem right now, is that we don't have vaccines for all of them, so we can vaccinate them all in the month of Christmas. If we had vaccines for all the minors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u20	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u21	...we would start vacations, after Kings, with all the children and girls vaccinated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u22	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u23	That's the problem, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u24	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u25	I am in solidarity with the problems that Spain has...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u26	Thanks, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u27	...I hope you're supportive, at least, of reality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the position of the Presidency of the Union on the problems of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u29	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u30	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, I would like, now that we are almost at the end of this session, to take stock of how your government faces the problems that our country has. And for that, let me allow myself to use the heieroteca: "I blame the citizens to generate aggglomerations in mass vaccinations"; "I delight in the time that I am allowed to use the hemeerote: "I blame Portugal for the riots in the Southern Town halls"; "I blame the Government of the new restrictive measures that I take to join John before the coward"; "I congratulate the joy that joy joy joy that joy joy makes you rejoice; "I blame the citizens of the riots; "I blame the Government for waiting for primary care"; "I accuse him for the opposition to endanger the sanctions"; "I joy" "I joy" "I congratulate him" "I congratulate him" "I congratulate him," joy joy the joy that he caused him joy that he caused the citizens of victory; "I congratulate him he blamed the Government for waiting for waiting for all the primary hours"; "he accuses the crisis of the school hours of school hours"; "he will allow me to allow me to allow me to use the heerroomroomroomroomroomroom: "for that is why why why I made it allows me to allow me to allow me to allow me to make him to do this this this to make the way the way the way of that I beg the way of time: "P the citizens to make the way of time that I beg the way of time: "I use of this this this way of time: "make me allow me allow me allow me to make him to use of time: "P the way of this this this this this this this way of time: "I allows me allow me allow me to use of the citizens to use of time: "I beg the way of this this this this this this this: "make the way of time that I wish of time that I wish the way the way of this this this this this this this this this: "make the way of time that I wish I wish I wish I wish I wish I wish I wish I wish I wish of the citizens to use of this this this this this this this this this this this serves the way of the way of time of time of the way of the way of the way of time of time of time:":": "made I wish I wish I wish I wish I wish allows the country of time of time of time of time of time of the citizens of time that he gave the country of time of the [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo reads and shows press headlines.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I could go on for hours. He accuses him... "He accuses him... "He accuses him... "because that reduces his government action, seeking guilty, because he is unable to provide solutions. And then he spreads his finger to accuse and seeks guilty, and blames citizenship, blames the BNG, blames companies, blames the crisis, blames Portugal, blames Catalonia, and now, since he doesn't rule the PP in the state, he also has the Moncloa as a wildling. It is, of course, a useless way to deal with the problems that Galicia has, and that's why I ask you if you think you're being useful in solving the problems that our country has.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u32	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, many happinesses. You think it's at the end of the legislation. Well, no, not the lady. If we haven't reached the middle of the legislation yet! And you bring me stuff from the year 2009 and the year 2010, whatever you want... Man, the box thing I guess won't be recent, from this legislation! [[Murmurs.]] But of course, Your Honor, for a moment I thought you were part of the Government of Madrid. [[Laughter]] For a moment I thought BNG, in addition to supporting the Government of Madrid, was already part of the office. [[Applause]] But everything can be, eh! Of course, if you give him the chance, there's no doubt about it. What is clear is that you have forgotten a headline: "He has made it that BNG has not ruled in Galicia since 2009." That title has been forgotten, Your Honor. [[Applause]] But, of course, Mr Feijóo is simply a Member who has a majority parliamentary group and who has the confidence of the Greeks for as long as you hold him with such innocent will. Look, Your Honor, about the usefulness of politics or not, I tell you that the usefulness of your question today is unknown to you. Of course, what we're dedicated to is managing the pandemic, managing economic recovery, improving public services and defending Galicia, in front of all of us, including BNG. Your Honor, in the management of the pandemic, we have already spoken to the spokesman of the Socialist Party. We never had any support from the BNG, at all, only destructive criticisms. Even more, they frightened all the Greeks by putting up the elections in July 2020, scared all the Greeks by saying that we were going to a butcher shop and missed it and lied to all the Greeks because they were simply not interested in having the autonomous elections at the smallest pandemic wave of history since 2019. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, a party called sovereignist, an independent party -- they call it what they want, also shames you up to what they are -- at least you should value Galicia and its pandemic data and be able to value all doctors, all health personnel and all the sickness of vaccination processes. [[Murmurs.]] We have made a reactivating commission in this Parliament, the BNG, of course, does not want to participate; we have made new laws to encourage recovery, we have tabled a candidacy of European funds, and BNG does not participate; we have approved balanced budgets, and BNG votes not. The result is that today we have more GDP, that the economy is growing more than the average of Spain, that we have less unemployment than the average of Spain, that has reduced unemployment by 34.700 people in the last year and that we have increased quotas, the number of social security affiliates in more than 25,600 Greeks. That's the result. And we're improving public services, because when the Greeks say that this health is better valued than in recent years, they're saying that to the Greeks, not to the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u34	And when we get to 25,000 dependency squares, it's 25,000 people who charge and those who know perfectly well what we're talking about. And when we have the lowest ratio of students per teacher, that is, more teachers per student than the rest of Spain, of course, Your Honor, is that we're improving public services. And when we're the autonomous community, the first in Spain, free of charge in children's schools, we're putting in value reconciliation, equality and public services. And when we defend the crisis against the industrial nonsense of the ecological transition that the Government is theoretically doing, which is nothing more than a destruction of employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u36	...we're defending Galicia. When we defend a price for the hyper-electrointensive industries, we defend Galicia. When we defend Ence, the employment of the workers of Ence, the port of Marín and the 5,000 families selling wood, we're defending Galicia. And when we defend the wind sector, reasonable and legal, we're defending Galicia. And when we defend a transition that, by its own name, indicates an evolution of a situation from now on to the future situation, we are defending thousands of people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u38	...that they work in Alcoa, or that they work in Vestas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u39	Thank you, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u40	Your Honor, what we are defending Galicia, both in the management of the pandemic and in the economic recovery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u41	Thank you, President. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u42	...as in improving public services as in defending our industry. And of course, Your Honor, we have nothing to hide from what we think. We're Galician majority party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u43	Thank you, your time is up. For the reply, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u44	Mr. Feijó, breathe, because I see him a little hyperventilated with BNG. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you that you lose all hope because you can launch all the obsessive campaigns you want against the BNG that will not slow down the progress of this political force, and of course you won't shut us up in this Parliament. [[Applause]] And look, you know what's going on? That his obsession with looking for guilty didn't start a year ago, it's that he's started since he sat in the Presidency of the Galician Union, where he's been systematically throwing balloons out every time there's a problem and no alternatives to this country. Look at that swing: Fejóo is the champion of everything, but what champion of what? Yes, yes: 14,000 jobs lost in the industry, over 17 thousand jobs requested in the field and in fishing, 200,000 boys and girls who took the suitcases... and tell us that, thanks to him, everything is winding up... because, Mr. Feijóo, stop stepping on carpet and step on the reality of the Greeks and the Greeks, who are going through a very annoying moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And yes, I suppose, besides, we'll see again today what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u45	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u46	... it repeats itself in almost all control sessions: that in your last turn, when we no longer have a replica, because you will come here to continue with this campaign of attacks and defamation against BNG, because you are hyperventilating against BNG. Yes, yes. [[Laughter]] And we ask you to explain in your reply where the solutions to Alcoa are, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Because your government could lead public intervention, but it doesn't; all you want is to lead criticism, and we need a government that governs. [[Applause]] We want to know where their solutions are for the producers of this country, because their government could do two things: help them compensate for the increase in prices and set industry, distribution and producers to guarantee them fair prices. But where are your solutions, Mr. Feijóo? You could also hire more professionals for the health system, but you'd prefer to continue to have a health care that lowers your budgets the investment that is going to be made in primary care. [[Applause]] Or could you, Mr. Feijóo, join the defense of a Welsh electric tariff so that we can benefit from the country's energy production, so that, instead of continuing to embrace the electric lobby, it embraces the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] That would be a good measure, Mr. Feijó. Or I could also give alternatives to young people. [[Applause]] It would, of course, be good news that now, which we are finishing this session, has shown us that Galicia is going to start taking seriously. Because taking seriously Galicia means ruling, not coming to this Parliament looking for guilty or defaming against the BNG and his spokesman. Government, Mr. Feijóo, who for that has been given the confidence of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. To close the question, the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u48	Your Honor, I'm not hyperventilated. I'm stuck. Don't you think I have... [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] True, if I had said that you're hyperventilated, imagine what might happen, imagine the comments we could hear. [[Laughter]] O you, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] I think everyone believes what it is every day. In San Caetano, at least where I work, there is no carpet, and in Montepío, neither. Here, yes. Here, as you've been a lot longer than me as a member of parliament, I understand that, if you step on your carpet, you know a lot, Your Honor. You know a lot! [[Applause]] But what is clear is that warning of the inconsistencies, falsehoods and pharisaism of the present BNG, since you co-ordinate it, is a political obligation. Honestly, I don't think it's useful to talk about the electricity tariff, because it's fake, or the Greek public bank, because it's fake, or to talk about a system of concepts that harms Galicia. And all those falsehoods must be put on the table, Your Honor. It's not useful to bet on renewables and then mount a platform. We know the arguments that you handle, because they refer them to all their spokespersons at BNG in all the municipalities, and how to mount a platform against any wind farm. It's unfortunate, Your Honor! It's a lamentable political technique, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] It's not useful to say that industry workers are supported and shut down Ence. That's an impropriety of a Greek political party. Your Honor, it is in no way useful to ask for Alcoa nationalization when you know that the problem of Alcoa is the price of light and then abstain from the government of Spain's assumptions, which have no capacity to put a price on competitive light so that Alcoa will continue to create jobs and primary aluminium. This project is not useful for the province of Galicia. Look, Your Honor, why are you ashamed of your own ideology? Why do you say we're poisoning BNG's ideology? [[Laughter]] I am simply the President of the Galician Council, and you are the spokesperson of a parliamentary group, and I am responsible - of course - to evaluate the ideologies of the groups that make up this Parliament. Look, Your Honor, the cynical thing I've heard in my political life is to say, "We are sovereignists, not independentists." And now, I enter the BNG website, and I read "BNG's political principles: Galicia is a nation and therefore has the right to self-determination to decide for itself and freely and sovereignly its future." [[Laughter]] I'm still... No, no, if I know that there are Members in favour! If I only ask you to tell me who I am, to understand us and at least be able to talk! I continue: "BNG is a nationalist organization, because it defends the national sovereignty and freedom of the Galician nation to constitute a sovereign, democratic, republican state... the Republic of Galicia." Do you agree with most Members? And why don't you tell your spokesman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u50	... once to stop lying to the Greeks and stop fooling us, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Of taking for fools!... [[Applause]] That's what Mrs. Pontón is bothering you to read. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, shows a document.]] Well, Mrs. Pontón, I'll keep reading, because, as long as you don't change, I won't accept that you're wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u52	If they're ashamed of their principles, of their ideology, Cambia. Now, saying one thing and the opposite is an act of improper pharisaism by someone who wants to co-ordinate a political party. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I am useful in defending the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of autonomy of Galicia. I defend the Spanish constitution and the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia. You are against the Spanish Constitution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u54	...and the Galician Autonomy Statute. That is to be useless, Your Honor, for the problems of the country, useless for the problems of people. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you are very sovereign, very independent, very nationalistic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u56	...many of Galicia's independent republic, now well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u58	... whereever they can, they rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That's the double pharisaism in triple death jump.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u60	We have an alliance with Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u61	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u62	...signorship; you have no alliance with anyone, except with your interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u63	Thank you, President. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u64	...and with his power. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u65	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso and eight other Members, on the demand by the Galician Union to the Government of Spain for compensation or compensation to the group of seafarers of the Burgo River during the period during which they cannot exercise their activity as a result of the execution of the dredging of this river
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u66	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u67	Mr. Calvo has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u68	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, again today we bring a matter to this Parliament, a matter which is pending a solution. We're talking about one of the historical demands in the Coruña area, which was and is the dredged of the Burgo River. And we said it was pending solution because there's a collective of about eighty sailors on foot or the fleet that today they don't know what they're going to be like for the next two years. They don't know what they're going to be like because last week if you've solved the remedy on the adjudication of the contract, they'll start the works immediately and have no solution for the paron in their activity. I think it's good to make a little history and remember that the environmental impact statement was dated September 11, 2017 by a government of the Mariano Rajoy People's Party; that the project was approved in April 2018; that was what was finally proposed with an incorporation of the amendments, of the Council's allegations; that the Government of Pedro Sánchez took it off, it is true, two years later; that, in addition, it was approved, it was lawful, or published the bidding, making some mistakes that were made in the following weeks, such as not taking it to the Council of Ministers or not referring to its funding Feder. But the important thing is that it went forward, and I believe that in this all groups we agree. The important thing is that it went forward and that it can be carried out. It's true that, in order for this to go ahead and if it could be done, a job had to be done for years in an important way throughout the Burgo stream, and there's the work of the Galician Union. For years, the Galician Union has invested more than 100 million euros in eliminating all the spill points that the river had. They'll be with me, ladies and gentlemen, in which it makes no sense to do the dredging of the river if there's still spilling points on the coast, in the river area, and if we continue to see the same river. So for many years, and after a hundred million euros of investment — which is not a small one — in each and every one of the municipalities, it was able to eliminate most, the whole practice, from the point of dumping to the river. After all these traps, we are now at the time of tendering, at the time of adjudication. And there we have the problem of these eighty seafarers who don't know what they have to do. Because of those economic compensations, the State does not want to take over. The real state that is the promoter of the work, gentlemen. He's the promoter of the work and the compensation must be taken care of. In addition to investing these 100 million euros previously in the sanitation of the river, I also proposed at the time — in 2019 — a social plan; a social plan that I think was the answer that the mariners needed and that was an exit where all administrations had to be involved: the local administration — which would be the beneficiary, first, because it was solved by the point of dumping and, secondly, because the allegations made by the municipalities in the project were accepted — also by the Council of Galicia, logically, and also by the State. But that social plan that has been put forward for three years has not been answered by the municipalities or the state. I've been waiting for three years for an answer to this social plan, and the sailors still don't know what's going to happen. We also understand that it must be the Central Government who assumes that these jobs — if they are collected in the project itself — of collecting and replenishing the seed are executed by the sailors themselves. And for that, you will have to order — to those who fit to articulate the legal formula — so that it falls in the marsicador collective itself, both collecting it today from the seed and then throwing it back into the creek. But, as I said, the solution has to come because of the involvement of all administrations, it's true. We proposed, and we've been waiting for three years. Furthermore, in this adjudication there is an important savings, because the work was bided for 48 million euros and was awarded for 32 — that is, 16 million euros of savings in this work —. And we're talking about compensation that doesn't reach 2 million euros. They save 16 and we're discussing 2 million euros. It is true that the Marishers have on several occasions requested that the judicial teams — after several meetings between the parties — of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Union meet to know who has to deal with compensation, and are concerned. They say they'll take action and they won't make it easier to start the works. I understand them, I think we all understand them. They don't know and no one gives them an answer; and therefore I think it's good to try and compromise those compensations. There were several meetings between the Council of the Sea and the confrerery itself, three meetings: February 5, April 12 and October 19. On 19 October, in addition, it was a meeting in which it was also convened, by the confrerery, the State, the Directorate General of Coasts. On that occasion, the Government's own sub-delegated representative. At that meeting, with the constable present, after convening it, it remained that it would be good for the legal services of central and autonomous administrations to determine who should pay those compensations. Since the 19th of October, the Galician Union has no news whatsoever, nor has the marsicador group. We have put on the table a report from an administrative law professor, in which, of course, it is clear, black on white, which corresponds to the State taking over the compensation. But on the part of the State all we got was the silence by answer. Throwing balloons out is the only thing they did. But it's more, at that meeting the government's own sub-delegate said something that concerns us. The solution to the mariners is that they can always resort to justice. But do you know and are aware of the sub-delegation of the Government of what it means that they have to go to justice so that they are given that right to compensation for that unemployed person? What are these families going to live on during that time until justice clears up and says it has to be the state — in our opinion —? Is this the formula the Socialist Government has to take care of these marishers? Well, if that's the way, we don't agree. What makes no sense is that who is the owner and who bids the work is not responsible for the compensation. When the outer port of the Coruña was built, compensation had to be made for the fishing sector. Do you know who did it? The Ministry, the Ministry, Mr. Rivas... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u69	Please, Mr. Rivas! Perfect! No, you can't. Mr. Rivas, you can't do that. It's better what you just did. When you don't like the debate, you have the option of withdrawing. But let's all be respectful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u70	When the outside port of the Coruña... -- listen to why we might agree on something, it's worth it, there's a lot of people waiting for-- When the external port of the Coruña became established, the one who called for it was Fomento and the one who took charge of the compensations was Fomento. When in the Noia River, the bridge over the Noia River was made and the mariners had to be compensated, who called for the Infrastructure Council and who paid the Marishers it was the Infrastructure Council. If the reports of the professors, if the common sense and the experience accumulated for years tell us that who bids must take care of compensation, why, after all, does the Government of the State still look elsewhere and leave these people abandoned? No one would understand that if the Galician Union made a road that affected the work of a factory, it would be the municipality that compensated that factory. No one would understand that, if the Ministry of Industry decides to do a polygon and affects a gainful exploitation, it was the rural environment that had to compensate for that gainful exploitation, but it has to be the one who bids, the owner and the one who carries out the work. I think it's important that we look for a solution, I think it's important that all of us, in a unanimous way, tell the State that we can't reason. After saving 16 million euros in the project bid, you can't raisonne a minimum amount that doesn't even reach 2 million euros. Because, with that social plan that we proposed at the moment, in which the Union was committed to making a move, in which the councils that will be benefited from this dredging — and that they have been benefited from all the works that it has carried out to Junta for a value of EUR 100 million, in addition to that they have made claims to the project, to the final project, with which it has increased its bid cost two million euros — it is normal that they can also collaborate in this situation, plus a small collaboration of the state and that plan that is already collected in the project itself to collect seed and put seed again, we have solved the problem. Why doesn't the State Government want to reach a solution? Why does this collective use this way? Why are the city council's claims accepted to improve maritime walks in this dredging, some allegations that have increased by EUR 2 million, and why are the seafarers' claims not accepted, which amount to a smaller amount? We bring this initiative because we meet with the collective and because he asked us for a solution. I hope that they will help us and that, among all, we will ask the State to take care of these compensations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u71	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. He recognises and seems to be glad Mr Calvo that the work — as he said a moment ago — would go forward. What he does not say is that, if he went forward, it was for the determined political will and commitment of the progressive government of the state in sharp contrast to the failure of political will of the governments of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy for seven years. That circumstance ignores her. And the last time we talked about this issue in this House a few months ago, the People's Group offered EUR 100,000 to contribute to the economic compensation for the cessation of the activity of the river marishers during the duration of the regenerating works, which will do and finance the state in full, budgeted at EUR 48 million — none of them are budgeted, and we'll see when the work is finished — and within a run-up of twenty-six months. You were offering 100,000 euros, a ridiculous amount. But now, it seems, the PP offers nothing anymore and asks for it to be paid by the whole state. That is despite the fact that practically all the competences over the stream of the Coruña, such as shellfish, aquaculture, environmental inspection, etc., etc., are from the Unity of Galicia. Just as it has powers over works of general interest in Galicia — and the dredging of the Burgo River is undoubtedly a work of general interest — and as it has environmental competence and control of discharges — shared with the councils on the basis of state legislation, but it does have. But here the work, which could fully and perfectly do to the Union if it had political will, it did and financed the State entirely. It places zero euros, zero euros of the 48 million planned for the regeneration of the Burgo River, from which half come from state funds and the other half of the European Union. And you're even refusing to participate in compensation to seafarers, which can amount to, by chance, 1.5 million euros, or maybe 2 million euros. That's your commitment to the regeneration of the Burgo River, zero euros. But you assume that you invested 100 million euros in the last decade in the stream, which I frankly don't know if it's true, because your accounts always remember the big captain's, you know, those who said, "Picoes, shovels and chandeliers, one hundred million." In this case exactly the amount matches, not the coin. But, in any case, they forget that the government of José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero inaugurated in 2011 the work of the Bens debugger, which cost 128 million and allows the sanitation of the entire metropolitan area — 440,000 inhabitants —. There is a context for all of this, which is the decline in shellfish in the face of pollution from our rivers, a shellfish that is a sustainable economy, part of our culture, our identity, a non-movable productive activity that is also part of the value chain of the conservation sector, of the hostel, which gives it an obviously strategic character which is reinforced by the fact that it is going from the hand of conservation of the environment, which should be the priority of any administration, of any public policy, especially within the framework of the European Union — even though the Union of Galicia does not give itself fully. Therefore, shellfishing is a strategic activity that should be protected, protected, fostered, valued and defended by all possible means. But both the volume of seafood production and the jobs associated with that activity do not stop falling in Galicia slowly but steadily. This is demonstrated by a study of Welsh researchers published in the magazine Marine Policy in 2019, which pointed to the existence of a hidden crisis in the Welsh marine sector, harvested in the previous decade — just the first of the Feijóo governments — and which concluded that there had been declines in the number of boats dedicated to the seafood — 13% — that landings and the selling value of the different species fell by 16% and 13% respectively, as well as in the number of walkers, who were reduced to half. And a maximum example of this decline in seafood production is precisely what we're talking about, that of the Burgo River, affected by decades of pollution that have been sedimenting, decanting and decombating seafood production to a very small extent with regard to its potential. In this context, the progressive government of the State, as I say, has approved the final project, has called for the final project for the regeneration of the Burgo River, which has indeed, as you yourself know, been a long-claimed action since the Coruña region, which is currently being stopped but which we hope will be resolved by a medium-term resource. This is, as we know, a very important work, since the stream of the Coruña has been in an extremely difficult situation for the practice of the shellfish which has led to the activity currently only about eighty people, when only a few decades ago came to sea in it about two thousand. Two thousand decades and eighty today! And this work responds to a demand from the region that comes from many years ago, it is not from now on — especially when, following the allegations of the Congressional Fishermen and the Platform for Defence of the Rhine in 2013, a delegation of MEPs visited the rivers of Vigo, Ferrol and finally of the Coruña and showed their concern about the bad state of those rivers. Despite the fact that whoever was then president of the Galician Waters told them that 99% of the river was healthy — it seems to have been a bit too much — they must not agree, because the chairman of the committee pointed out after visiting the laugh that the complaints from the Fishermen's Congress and the platform for Defense of the Rhine were fully substantiated. And there is no doubt that the sanitation and regeneration of the Burgo River is an act that shows the commitment of the state administration, the progressive government, the environment and also the employment and the generation of wealth. And thanks to the sanitation of the river, it will be possible to increase seafood production—preventably, as the seafarers themselves say and recognize— which has been severely diminished for more than 20 years, and to generate sustainable wealth and economy at the same time that environmental rehabilitation is a very important and very frequent ecosystem by the citizenship of the region. Together she could do a lot of things, because this objective reality has been like this for a long time. Junta had years to solve the problem of Burgo's laugh alone or in collaboration with the state government, but she didn't. It was limited to saying that he spent a lot of money — with those accounts of the great captain you talked about, or of what I'm talking about — in the sanitation of the river. But that, on the assumption that it is true, does not exempt them from their responsibility in regeneration; above all considering that these money are not theirs — because you always assume that they spend money as if the money put them out of their pocket — but, to a large extent, they are European funds that should have allowed the regeneration of the river more than 15 years ago, since the Water Framework Directive has been in force for twenty-one years, twenty-one years, and you have been receiving large amounts of funds from the European Union for this purpose. And in a new sample of their budgetary and competitive escapism, the Galician Union did not set or will put — apparently — not a penny of euro for this purpose of re-engineering the Burgo's stream. When, as I said, all the competences over the river — including, notably, shellfish, aquaculture, the environment, works of general interest, etc. — are yours. And we also have to include the execution of the fight against pollution and the environment. The funds will be made entirely from the State and the European Union, with no contribution from the budgets of the Union — Euro — despite the fact that the Union — I insist — has received numerous Community funds to fight against pollution in recent decades. And since the Euro MPs visited the river in 2013 and took a bad impression, there have been still five years of PP governments in the state that have done absolutely nothing for the regenerating of the river. Because it must be remembered that in the budgets of the State of the year 2018 — the last of Rajoy's government — there was only a symbolic departure of one million for regeneration. Although it was always claimed that Junta contributed at least 50 per cent — as a competent administration on shellfish, pollution and the environment — and there was a tacit consensus for a long time on what that would be like. This, as we see, is not going to happen because the Union is contributing zero euros to this great regenerating work. And despite the fact that the PSdeG has already put forward a proposal requesting that all administrations — including the Union — be compensated for by seafarers, the Board rejected the PSdeG proposal and then offered — as I said — EUR 100,000. And now it seems — I insist — that it does not already offer the 100,000 euros that it offered to Junta, no longer offers them, to enable the mariners to survive when the state provides 48 million euros to re-establish the river. The state, 48 million, the Union, EUR 100,000 — which no longer provides — in an area of action in which virtually all competences and therefore responsibilities — are from the Union of Galicia. Which is frankly regrettable because, as it is their competence to manage pollution control and environmental issues, the exclusive competence of the Union in the area of seafood, and the situation entirely alien to seafarers, should, of course, be the responsibility of the Union to establish economic compensations that enable that professional collective to survive during the duration of the work. Despite what, we amend this proposal not by law without asking the Board to pay, which would be logical, but by asking the Board to come to an agreement with the State to blow that compensation, and to stop practising escapism on a subject that depends on the economic support of many families in the Coruña region who do not deserve to be victims of the game of "I invite and pay you," in which is a genuine world champion the government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Nothing else, and we expect them to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u73	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u74	Congratulations, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Fexóo and the Group of the People's Party — today practically absent in this plenary — that in the BNG men and women of the BNG we are not ashamed of anything at all. And it's precisely the work of the BNG and the coherence of the BNG that every day are making the support of the Greek society grow. Just like the People's Party if it has much to be ashamed of as men and women belonging to a party sentenced as a corrupt party or which encourages day by day the extreme right to deal with power and rule with Vox; or assuming its negationist speeches, as we saw yesterday in the defense of our own and official language. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And to go to the subject that concerns us, because the sailors and the sailors of the Burgo River — of my region — deserve all respect, I want to welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, to the new season of the Christmas series The smokes of the PP, after this representation — sorry, of this intervention — by Mr. Diego Calvo. We can't describe this series as a highly novice, but rather a continuation of its particular macroserie entitled The Paper Room, which is where the People's Party usually fears to convert this House of Representation of the People. Thanks should be at the end of the credits, at the end of this series, but as this People's Party PNL presents something like a praise to the world backwards, we will also allow ourselves the license to start at the end. And that is why we want — and we also do it with great honour — to thank the BNG for the society of the Coruña region that in these twenty years — which is said very soon — for its unbridled defense of the Burgo River, for a healthy, productive, sustainable and living laugh, for, on the one hand, developing the most honest and hard work of the seafarers and seafarers, but also for the rest of society to be able to have an environmentally sound environment — from the Coruña Brotherhood to the seafarers and, of course, from that wide, diverse, representative table to the Rhine. Without that continued and committed social impulse we would not be about to see the works of dredging and regeneration of Burgo's stream begin today. And I also want to thank the People's Party here today. Yes, indeed, because after more than twenty years he finally found a few minutes to think, to write and even to defend here in this plenary the laugh of Burgo. Never so intense attention will we live in my Coruña district, I assure you. And I'm still going to thank you more to the lords of the People's Party: thank you for being able to finally vote in favour of the Marishers and the Marishers of the Burgo River. Take care of the tensiometers, that's right, and look carefully at that green button in front of its seats that always represents being put in favour of the people. You know that the shadow of the not practiced so often is very long. Too bad, yes, that these six who are going to vote -- with "v" -- today also means throwing -- with "b" -- balloons out of the field of the unique and intransferable responsibilities and competences of the Sea Council. It means recognizing the incapacity of the People's Party in the Government of the United States as the leading mediator and negotiator agent with the Government of the State. And it means accepting to leave behind the families of these eighty seafarers and seafarers who still manage to remain active in the river. To seek to justify itself today the People's Party demanding economic compensation to the State at this time without having already opened a bilateral negotiation with this State, without having fought the rights of the eighty marishing families, means to give up the care of our people and to accept that they could not be left without work and without income for more than two years. Is this the role of government spectators who have to wait for the People's Party? But this series that I told you, The People's Party smokes, comes from far away. And following his scenography and screen policy, we're going to refresh some chapters by lending the title of a series that invites us to go back to the past. Instead of where they were then, we're going to ask where the PP was in the last twenty years, where the PP was in the last twenty years when the Burgo creek lost productive capacity, passing from over a thousand seafarers and seafooders twenty years ago to just eighty today. Where was the PP in the last twenty years, while Burgo's laugh became the metaphor of the impoverishment to which Galicia is submitting, condemning the disappearance, under contaminated muds, a first-order productive sector, like the shellfish, of a vicious stream that today reaches only 20% of its production? Where was the Welsh PP while in this Parliament and in Congress, as the logbooks show, BNG had long demanded actions to provide economic funds that would allow the participation and collaboration of seafarers in the regenerating work of the river—because no one is better than them to know and work in the river—and at the same time compensated for the period of forced inactivity? Where was the German People's Party when year after year State budgets did not contemplate any match for the regeneration and dredging of the Burgo River? Where was the Welsh PP when the budget obtained after the approval of a BNG amendment to State budgets was not implemented? Where was the Welsh PP defending the interests of seafarers of the Burgo River when he was ruling in Madrid that you called his "Government Friend" between 1996 and 2004 and between 2011-2018? Government friend in Madrid? Of course, we haven't — we've seen it — Government submitted to San Caetano? Yes, we've also checked. [[Applause]] Where was the German and state PP to enforce the 2013 report of the European Union Committee on Petitions that urged the Government of the State to invest the necessary economic funds and not to spare any effort to re-regine the hive—and "urgently", they said then? Where is the Welsh PP when seafarers repeatedly ask the Councillors to meet? I don't want to think about the stupor of the seamstresses when they hear you talk about meetings with the Council. How little do you know about the seamstresses and seamstresses of the Burgo River, Mr. Calvo! Where is the Welsh PP when only in the last year did the BNG and this honourable Member bring on three occasions the demand for economic compensation for seafarers in the Burgo River and the opening of a negotiation with the Government of the State? Where were they? Voting "no." Where is the Romanian PP in the process of recent state budgets? By presenting an amendment in favour and on demand of these compensations to the marishers? No, no, no, no. Voting in favour of the amendment that if we present at the BNG? No, not at all. It's the party of the no, no matter how much they want to escape from it. You've been and are still voting against Burgo's creek. That's his sad screen share. Leonard Cohen described it well: "Sometimes you know which side you're just seeing who's on the other side." At the BNG we have always been by the seamstresses and seamstresses of the Burgo River—and so they recognize us, it's a lot of pride for us—on the side of the Burgo River, which is just like being on the side of Galicia, because you know in the People's Party that the Burgo River has always been a priority for the BNG. On the other hand, obviously on the side of indifference, inaction, denial, the People's Party has always wanted to be placed. The most expensive was achieved, which seemed impossible all these years: 48.6 million euros of European funds. How little more than 2 million euros will be achieved to serve these two years the shellfishers and seafarers of the Burgo River who will not be able to work! Your present is at stake, but your future work is at stake. Now that the dredging and regenerating of the rhino finally arrives that will allow you to regain your productive capacity in a while, and so also lost jobs, you have to assume economic compensation between the Galician Union and the State. This is the demand that they are continually being reiterated by seafarers and seafarers, and that in the BNG, of course, we will always support them. There are two images that well define where each of us has been in these years — those two sides of what Leonard Cohen's quote is about — One is this: our comrade Ana Miranda defending in Parliament, defending the waterfront and always next to the sailors and the marishes solutions for this laugh to be productive again. [[Mrs. Complaints Zas shows a picture from the stage.]] And there's a second picture that's this: that of Mr. Diego Calvo as a tenant of Mr. Married on very recent dates, taking a graceful walk through the Burgo's creek when at this very moment this Mrs. and more fellow BNG were very close, at the confrerere, at the fourth meeting to try to find solutions to this situation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] More than twenty years ago, delaying the opportunity to start saving the Burgo River thanks to the PP, to avoid the loss of a fundamental productive space, more than twenty years behind seafarers and seafarers, and the PP today comes here to celebrate with this non-legislative proposal on the day of demagogy, a PP away from a PP in "express eco-disturbing" mode, to make it happen, in this policy of having on the screen between smoking... and always fitting that, yes, of the work that others do. [[Applause]] We've seen it in AP-9, we've seen it in the Peace of Meirás and we'll see it again now in the Burgo River. [[Murmurs.]] The motion for a resolution tabled today, Mr. Calvo, is a copy and paste of the ones you have already presented and defended...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u76	...this Member in this legislation. It's very good they copy us, it's normal, we understand it perfectly. But it's not enough to copy the BNG or complain about what others don't do or justify themselves saying they've already done what they were supposed to do in the field of sanitation, or much less to transfer economic burdens to the municipalities, which have nothing to do with this. [[Murmurs.]] They have to get involved. After twelve years of ruling, they begin to exercise as government the powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u78	...that they have with the sea sector. To rule is not to come here to paripe with an initiative in extremes, but to act. And that's what they're being asked for by the seamsters and the seamsters of the Burgo River. Take action.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Diego Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u80	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Block, I don't think it was wrong for them to be a little more humble. The world didn't start when you came to this Parliament and they were Members, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] And this is not a representation. [[Applause]] It's not a representation, Mrs. Complaints. You met with the confrerery many times, surely. So do we. And this initiative — if it's true that you have direct contact — arises because we were called a few months ago. They called us again and we were with the confrere, and they asked us to present this initiative in the German Parliament and also in the Congress of Members. And we have already presented them — today, in addition, we have discussed them — at the request of the confrere. You have the mania always to boast the representation of all kinds of collectives that exist in society. That's enough! But they believe! [[Murmurs.]] Are you the only ones who can speak on behalf of collectives? It's not true, it's not true! More humility, which will come to them much better. More humility, man, more humility! [[Applause]] [[Applause and murmuring.]] Where was the PP for these 20 years? Working, working, because if today's river project is there, it's for many reasons, because many governments have participated. I said it at first, I didn't want to go in and blame each other. I didn't want to go in, but you, both you and the PSOE representative, didn't miss the opportunity. You put your handkerchief like that and they come in. And they're talking about not. No, not man!, over the last twenty years, many millions have been invested, 100 million euros, by the way, in solving the spills that the socialist Party councils that rule in the Burgo River have been laughing for years and looking elsewhere when it was municipal competition. The Socialist Party, Mr. Arangüena, and supported by the Nationalist Block Galego, always supported by the Nationalist Block Galego! [[Applause]] And Junta has been solving the spills. [[Applause]] He's been solving the spills for 20 years. What did they do? Man, work! The European funds for this project, Mr Arangüena, came because the mayor of the tide was not in agreement at that time with the previous mayor and the funds were therefore lost. And it was the Galician Junta that said that those funds, so they wouldn't lose them, if they were dedicated to Burgo's laugh. And the Burgo River project and the environmental impact statement was from the People's Party. The Sánchez Socialist Party was two years behind the project put in a drawer. And when he pulled it out, he had to correct it twice in the Official State Gazette because he didn't know how to do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it's okay, really, it's okay, the important thing is it's there. That's it, the important thing is it's there! [[Murmurs.]] They are called 48 million euros and they are valued at 32 —16 million euros of savings in this work. I used to give you several examples and that you have to know — or should —. In the works of the outer port, who paid the seafarers and the fishing sector? No, don't do that. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández waves us from the scene.]] Who paid them? Whoever has bidden the outside door. Who did it? I encourage you. In the Variant's variant, she licited the work of Junta de Galicia. Who paid the women's sailors? The Galician Union. If tomorrow the Government of the State, or the Ministry of Industry, wants to do a polygon and affects a livestock holding, who pays them? Half-rural? Oh, no, don't do that. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández waves us from the scene.]] Don't do that! It's true! You like it very much and always pretends to me here to read legal articles and all these things. In this report of an administrative law professor, in the conclusions, in the last paragraph. Listen, listen, it's worth it anyway. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso shows a text from the stage.]] Please listen. [[Murmurs.]] I've heard it from you, listen to me. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] "Conclusion. Therefore, the possible compensations that may be for persons and entities affected by the suspension of maritime activity during the implementation of the draft environmental dredging of the Burgo River are of exclusive competence and responsibility of the General Government of the State." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You want me to leave him? Then I put it through, then I put it through. [[Murmurs.]] So they stop messing things up. The important thing is that the work — Mrs Complaines said so and it is true — is being done and collaborated. Perfect! But, listen, whoever has to compensate is the holder. Whoever has to make amends is what bids the work. We made a proposal. What's that about the 100,000 euros? Of course, we made a proposal, a very simple proposal that consisted of saying: let's make a social plan, a social plan in which the Galician Union put a quantity, the municipalities to which it had to solve the problems of spills by the Galician Union also put a small part, the municipalities that claimed against the project and managed to increase their value by 2 million euros by putting the most beautiful walk—or the ways they wanted—also collaborate, and that the state collaborate in a very similar amount, Mr. Arangüena. And as for the six hundred and a thousand euros that are included in the project to collect the seed and throw it back, let the mariners do it. Do you know what the amount of all this is? (Speak words that are not perceived. Well, about the compensation of the mariners we're talking about. Why do you, in the face of legal evidence... but listen a little, man, really! [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I ask you to listen, you've already passed the congress, you listen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the face of legal evidence, in the face of the history of other similar facts in which anyone bids the work is what takes care of compensations, in the common sense, in the common sense, in the common sense, truly!...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u82	...in view of all these things — I am finished, President — I ask you to convince your government that we are talking about a very small contribution and that we cannot be playing with the future of eighty families. By the way, the resource has already been resolved, you are not aware of half, the resource has already been resolved. They're playing with the future of eighty families who don't know what the next twenty-three months will be when the work begins. And you're playing for a small amount, when it's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u84	I really don't think seafarers deserve it. And I repeat to you that this initiative will be brought to you, Mrs. Complaints, at the request of the confrere. It's not a representation. A little more humility, that wouldn't hurt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u85	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u86	We begin the votes of the non-law proposals. We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará, on the actions that must be carried out in Galicia for the creation of the German railway force. He said he accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and was pending the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which he did not accept. Then we vote. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol asks for the floor.]] Give Mr. Balsairo a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u87	Mr President, I understand that if you vote on the text as it is, because the amendment that the People's Party had was of substitution and we have already passed on to the Nationalist Block of Galicia that we did not accept the offer of transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u88	So if you don't accept the amendment, of course, it's poured out the way it was. Perfect. Nor is the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group accepted. Let's vote, then, again. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and D. Paulo Ríos Santôme, on the performances that must take place in Junta de Galicia for the creation of the Galese railway. After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u89	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Iago Tabares, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the control of the residences of Ourenses. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u90	As we said in yesterday's speech, it was to ask for a separate vote, if possible, from the third point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u91	Yeah? Then we vote on the third point. [[Accepted on request.]] Voting of the third point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the control of the residences of Ourenses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. The third point of this proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u92	Let's vote for the rest of the points now. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the control of the residences of Ourenses, except for the third point, which has already been voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u93	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Calvo. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso and eight other Members, on the demand by the Galician Union to the Government of Spain for compensation or compensation to the collective of seafarers of the Burgo River during the period during which they cannot exercise their activity as a result of the execution of the dredging of this river. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u94	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Teresa Egerique. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted, the first point of the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted and not the second. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the defence by the Galician Union of the interests of the marine-fishing sector and its sea-industry chain in the face of the actions of the Central Government. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u95	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. Amendment by Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in order to budget and execute freeness in children's schools of 0-3 years since January 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u96	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Arangüena on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece to protect the indigenous forest. There's an amendment from the Popular Parliamentary Group, which said he accepted it as an addendum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you accept it? [[Mrs. Candia López asks for the floor.]] Yes, yes, give a voice to Mrs. Elena Candia's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u97	I make the clarification because in his intervention, he actually recognized that he was excluding Ourense, which I thought he was going to accept a transaction. If it is not accepted as a transaction, we vote against it, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u98	Yes, I understood that too. The thing's got to be added. So that's not true and we vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry! Do you want to light something up? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept her as an addendum? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's something else. Do you accept a point vote? [[Refusal.]] Okay, so let's go quick. We vote like this and how it is. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to protect the native forest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14 and against, 60. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Agenda change. Institutional Declaration of Support for the Greek Social Economy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u99	I'm going to read them an institutional statement that brings me to the groups, which is an extract from the manifesto of support for the Greek social economy and which says: "The social economy is a fundamental actor in today's society that brings together organizational forms that introduce a set of common principles, values and objectives in favour of an inclusive economic model based on the conviction that the primacy of the person and the social object, democratic and participatory governance and the application of the principles of solidarity and responsibility combine sustainable economic activities with positive social impact. The social economy, present in all corners of the world, represents 10% of GDP in Spain, provides 12.5% of employment and binds 42.8% of the population. The map of the social economy in Galicia is made up of more than 7,300 entities and companies with an estimated employment volume of 24,904 workers and more than 74,120 social, communal or mutualists, which generate around 7% of gross domestic product. The social economy promotes stable and quality employment, is a pioneer in social innovation, offers solutions to economic and social challenges, actively contributes to social cohesion by promoting social inclusion and is a model of equal opportunities for all people. It is therefore a key actor for achieving the ODS, as it provides innovative responses to the complex and growing needs of the population. On the path of institutional recognition in Galicia, we would like to remember the adoption of the Galician Social Economy Act in 2016, as well as the definition of public policy for the promotion of the social economy, collected in the Welsh Social Economy Strategy and the constitution of the Galician Social Economy Council — both in 2019 — in order to have a framework of action and a context that promotes the dialogue and dialogue of all the actors involved. On the basis of all this, and following the stela of the European and Spanish institutions, the Galician Social Economic Council requested the recognition and support of the Galician Economic and Social Council, whose full approval on 8 November 2021 was given a manifesto in which it requested: First. To share the recognition by public institutions, strengthening the visibility and competitiveness of social economy enterprises through public policies and any other initiative that has been achieved for this purpose and in cooperation with social economy agents, seeking cross-cutting to improve policy coherence and to achieve greater effectiveness. Second. To improve the level of knowledge about companies and entities of social economy by promoting cooperation between the academic world, research centres, statistical institutes and social economy entities and companies. Third. Support the implementation of the legislation and the procedures that promote the objective of social policy, such as socially responsible public procurement, as well as the presence of the social economy in all sectors and in the issue of education, both in training processes and vocational training, with the aim of developing competences and strengthening the abilities of the participants, potential promoters, members and/or beneficiaries of the social economy. Fourth. Finally, let us not forget the proposal to strengthen the networks of public, private and social actors, the economy and society to promote economic growth and social inclusion policies in the territory." Nothing else, thank you very much. This is the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u100	We're still on the agenda and we're going to the fifth point, which is that of interpellations. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and two other members of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, on the regulation of the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u101	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u102	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President Count. The Lama, Becerreá, Bembiber, Sardinian, Chantata, Coristanco, Foz, Laza, Lugo, Mazaricos, Ferrol, Pontevedra, Castro Candelas, Seoane do Courel, Vila de Cruces, Antas de Ulla, Carral, Meira, Vilalba, Gondomar, Marín, Bueu... Whether you did not find out or you did not want to hear, in less than twenty-four hours, more than 22 localities will protest in this country, as you have done in recent months, against your wind policy under the motto "Eolico so no". [[Applause]] And, we insist, it's not an opposition to wind energy, Mr. Count. Stop lying and stop manipulating. I still haven't seen one collective or organization in this country that's against wind energy. What they're against is their wind model, the wind model of the People's Party, which, rather than being an opportunity to advance in energy self-sufficiency, to generate economic wealth or to fight climate change, if it's turning into a social, economic and environmental first-order problem because of how you're doing things. [[Applause]] And more so, you do things so bad, so, absolutely bad, that this answer is not only stronger and more numerous, but also more and more transversal and more extensive throughout the country. The opposition to the wind policy of the Galician Union is about to concentrate almost as much support as the desire for world peace, Mr. Conde. [[Applause]] Look, you anger the municipalities of all colors — including the People's Party —. You anger collectives of all kinds — those collectives that then demonize — from neighboring associations, mountain communities, ecological associations, agricultural unions, associations of all kinds, and companies in the primary sector. And now you're really upset about the employer. The truth is, you're champions, because that's not easy to achieve. And, of course, we have to insist on a question, and it's in this country that people are older, and when they're against some government policy, it's not because they suck up any political party, but because they're mature. Because this is an older country, you know what you want, what you like and what you don't. Out of it, Mr. Conde, really, how long are you going to be rocked in that you're right and everyone's wrong? Of course, we understand that today I could start a rectification. Especially because you're going -- I'm telling you -- worse. And to show, one button: these amendments that are given to us in this accompanying law that this Parliament, as you well know, is working on these days, these weeks, these months. And it gives the impression or it's obvious that you want to escape the debate and that that's why they deal with these issues through the accompanying law. But I've got some bad news for you: because you can't decide or ban the intercessions of the Galician Nationalist Block at the moment, today you're going to have to answer on this question. And you can practice, too, Mr. Conde, your usual escapism, but of course, the best thing for this country would be to abandon today that strategy of blaming others, which gives explanations and, above all, to hold your hand to find a solution, because it is true that that solution can only happen first, by listening, then by dialogue and, finally, by planning. That, of course, would be the way: listening, dialogue and planning. The problem is, you're going in the opposite direction, like kamikaces, 200 an hour. And now they use this accompanying law again to process modifications through the back door. I would like to insist on a question: this would be the tenth, the tenth!, amendment of the Law of the wind sector — which is said to be ready —. There will be 10 reforms that already accumulate 61 changes. This gives an average, Mr. Count, for his government, that of Nuñez Feijóo, because of six changes per year. I'm asking you if this is legal security, if this is planning, if this is that rigor of what you're talking about. Because, of course, it doesn't seem to us. And today we want to ask you a very specific question: what are the reasons that have led the German Government to push these new changes? What studies, what references have you made or who has spoken to the German Government? Because, of course, it seems like they didn't talk to anyone but yourselves. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to read something to you: "The Board makes use of the Tax Measures Act, prevents the necessary social debate, impeding transparency and participation. It is unacceptable that measures of such transcendence should be taken without prior information to the agents concerned." That's a statement from the employer, Mr. Conde. I know you don't like us bringing here court judgements on your wind model, which you don't like us betraying what the ecological movement says, the agricultural unions, but it's already that even the employer, Mrs. Conde, recognizes this issue. Of course, the opposition did not speak to consensualize the measures they incorporate into the Accompanying Law, despite the fact that this issue has been the subject of debate for many years and we have been asking for legal amendments for many years. Nor did you speak to those collectives who demonize and are demanding a new wind model. So, Mr. Count, you don't talk to anyone, and the result is that you're angry with everyone. And, of course, we should listen to your explanations today, but I'm going to tell you what it looks like to the Galician Nationalist Block this cosmetic operation of the People's Party. It seems to us that what your ass has is afraid. So, like what he's scared of, you've seen the high social challenge that he was having this question and they've decided that they're trying to do a chameleon operation, put on the greenish suit, and thus try to pacify the social response, touching two of the points that concern society, which is the distance of housing and that is the high proliferation of project applications, which proliferate like mushrooms this time of year. But look, this bad comedy representation that you're doing is telling you one thing: this is like when you tried to do that scenario that you had the ability to stop state-level projects and that the only problems were those in state-level projects. It doesn't work, it doesn't work because in this country people aren't stupid and know exactly what there is; it doesn't work for that. It doesn't work either because, instead of making a serious change, you make a legal chapuza and you do, besides, an aqueous that won't be serious, nothing to analyze, and I'm going to explain why. There's a saying, too, that says who makes the law makes the trap, and that's what you guys did. First, on the alleged moratorium, it is absolutely unreal, to give the impression that no more projects will be admitted, when there are three traps. The first trap is that you know perfectly well that in this country applications for wind exploitation work like a kind of right of eternity; that is, if I hypothetically, as a promoter, I ask you to put an airliner in Parliament's garden — which we will soon get to that — because you can no longer go back and ask for it. So today, what we have is that in this country there is already little land available. That's enough to see just the map on which we can conjugate existing parks, processing requests and so on. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] You know, even if I made a moratorium, it would have a very small real effect. The second trap is that it hides the real motivation of this decision, which is its inability to process, is the actual incapacity in the Greek administration, mainly due to the lack of public workers and workers, that this attempt to privatize the administration that they have made with the Economic Reactivation Act is not working, that's the collapsed Administration, and that's also the businessman, who says it's blocked and that the deadlines are absolutely unreal. So they intend to opaque the absolute incapacity in an administration that doesn't work. Not to mention the absolute disappearance of owners, of neighborhoods, of municipalities, who do not have an instrument with minimal legal and technical protection to go to. [[Applause]] And the third trick is that you, of course, are dedicated to making exceptions. So, they make an apparent moratorium, they remain like the most ecologists on the planet, they become radicals of demonizing the request for moratoriums on the Natura Network, which, for example, brought this political party to this chamber, the vote to veto the expansion of projects in areas of expansion of the Natura Network, which you have paralysed before; we were some extraterrestrial fools, but now you're trying to conceal there, but they put the trap, they put the exceptions. So what are the exceptions? For a project declared of special strategic interest by the German Government can already be dealt with, or if one day the Council decides to temporarily suspend that moratorium, so because it decides on that Council. No, therefore, what they do is they already put the exit door, and besides in a very curious way, because the projects that the Union decides can go ahead; i.e. you are fascinating, because they are the kings of the free market, but then the finger, then the companies that you choose to finger are the ones that can follow the processing. That's the social economy that the People's Party likes. Secondly, the same is true of the distance from the houses. You were apparently assuming one of the main problems, which is that the existing legislation is not adapted to the new dimensions of technology, but of course, then the process of partial amendments came along and we attended that classic that the People's Party marches back through its partial amendments, which is already an absolute clairvoy. Of course, you, who so much speaks of rigour in this chamber, go on a carpet about a chapuza. [[Applause]] In any case, this shows something: that you are aware that you are wrong, that you literally say in that legal text that you have to look for a rational sort of sector, recognizing that it is irrational and disorderly. And the problem is they're still wrong. So today, Mr. Conde, we want you to answer to something very clear: assume you, assume the Greek Government that the constant legislative improvisation in this area is a mistake and that they have to sit in dialogue, plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u104	...and order? Are you going to do it, yes or no, Mr. Count? Because this is a social cry and today you have the opportunity to start the way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, look, if there's anyone in this parliament who demonizes something, it's you, who, once again, once again, once again prove no of the Galician Nationalist Block to the development of an ordered wind sector in Galicia. No, if we do something, no, if we don't. The BNG clearly deserves to paralyze the wind sector in Galicia, and therefore that a sector that generates wealth, generates employment, can be stopped, and therefore assumes the closure of the plant of components as was the case of Siemens-Gamesa in the Somozas, which could also happen with Vestas en Viveiro, if the government's passivity cannot achieve the commitment of some interested buyer. Unfortunately, the Galician Nationalist Block only interests abstract employment, I have been shown permanently in this chamber, what we regret is that it does not realize that there are always people and families behind the figures. There's no more to look at his standing as a permanent confrontation in Galicia, yet against all. That's right, in front of Madrid, that complicit silence that's allowing you at this moment to develop an unfair transition in Galicia that's jeopardizing the future of 16,500 Greeks and Greeks that you're giving your back to. I am, Mrs. Presas, the non-party in Galicia and itself in Madrid, that's already in your curriculum. By going back to the wind sector, look, the board is clear that the future of the wind sector is necessarily going through an orderly planning, and in that we're working on, it's a key sector for our economy, a sector that has evolved very technologically, that avoids CO2 emissions and that, of course, contributes to the improvement of the areas where it is implanted, and the only thing we're finding is that in the face of an impulse in this sector, the Galician Nationalist Block is the only one that wants to paralyze it. We have a model, and what I'd like to know is what part of the People's Party and Galician Union model you don't like. Don't you like us to apply environmental legislation? Do you not like us to apply this orderly planning that provides legal security to the sector? What is it, exactly, within the legislation that is being applied in the authorisation of wind farms that is not guaranteed from an environmental point of view, from a heritage point of view, from the point of view of defending economic activities? Unfortunately, we remain in this opposition to confrontation on the part of the Galician Nationalist Block, which the only thing that interests you is simply putting obstacles to the development of this country's wealth. But look, we are actually acting, because there is a context in which government action is required, and decisions have to be made. And you know that the Government has established a royal decree on 23/2020, which sets out a series of deadlines for the processing of projects, which is currently causing not only in Galicia but throughout Spain, that the promoters are rushing to present their initiatives, in many cases without presenting the documentation with the minimum conditions for their processing. The only thing they're looking for, in many cases, is not to lose the access and connection permissions they have granted and even lose the economic guarantees. And before that, Mrs Presas, the only thing we are moving is a moratorium, precisely in order to be able to process the files that we have presented in the Administration and to stand aside from this situation caused by a real decree which, by setting those deadlines, is causing this improvisation by the promoters. And that's why in this sector planning we're going to continue to ensure a rational development of the sector in Galicia, evaluating all projects with the maximum guarantees so that all technical, legal and environmental requirements can be met and, therefore, processing the projects and only authorizing those projects that actually comply with all applicable legislation in the development of the sector. Also, as you know, our model is a model of transparency, even though they don't like it. And you know that this government has a provincial information network of wind projects that already takes thirty meetings with the various municipalities, to transfer in real time all the information that can affect them in the development of any type of project. You know there's a divergent guide to the processing of a wind project and you also know that this government has constituted an information office to landowners, precisely to facilitate all information about the methods and criteria of assessment and all applicable regulations for soil classification and qualification. So, maximum transparency with the neighbours, with the municipalities and with all that person who needs any kind of information about the processing of a project. Finally, in fact, we have proposed a new limitation on the distance of air carriers with respect to rural, urban or urbanized nuclei. We're going to pass from the current 500 meters to five times the total aerogeor height, because we understand that right now the aerogeor height requires such an action from the point of view of the impact on the landscape. I'd like to know that you don't like the wind model of this government, surely the canon, and therefore surely have a return rate for the whole of Greek citizenship from the environmental point of view that has already allowed us to collect 251 million euros so far. The first to make it clear, Mrs Presas, is that we are facing an extra-fiscal tribute, for the adverse conditions on the natural environment and on the territory. And since he talks to me about rigour, he should apply it to the amendments he's proposing the Galego Nationalist Block for the wind canon, which seeks to amend the Law of Measures by turning the cannon into an electric tax to the generation. You should know, if that were so, we'd be at risk of this wind canon being eliminated, because it would be reversible. A wind canon that has as its sole objective, precisely by its configuration, to correct the impact on its impact in terms of environmental impact. However, you know that the wind sector has an impact beyond the cannon, not only for the generation of jobs — 7,000 direct and indirect jobs — but also for the impact on the gross domestic product and, of course, lordship, at return rates, also with taxes, taxes and incomes for the owners that are generated in our economy. 28 million euros for corporate tax, 30 million euros for tax on the value of electricity production, around 23 million euros for the wind canon, 37 million euros for municipal taxes charged by the municipalities and therefore impacting on citizenship, and also 11 million euros on incomes for land use. Therefore, the impacts of a model, firstly, guarantee from the point of view of environmental impact and, secondly, also a model that is allowing a rate of return to the whole of citizenship, to the municipalities and, therefore, to our territory. Your Honor, to process doesn't mean to authorize and, therefore, I regret that the Galician Nationalist Block claims that this government does not pass through. What's the fear of the Galician Nationalist Block because it's going through the projects? What we guarantee is compliance with the regulations and, therefore, we are guaranteed not to authorize any park that generates an environmental or urban impact that is not envisaged. And therefore we will continue to act with utmost rigour. Look, Mrs Presas, Galicia is green and will certainly be greener because through this energy model that we are pushing through renewable energies, through energy efficiency, we will try to effectively continue to lead this ecological transition and above all continue to lead this fight against climate change. We will continue to do so with the various measures and, as often as they try, Mrs. Presas, they will not remove our ambition or illusion for continuing to work for a greener Galicia. And we'll do it without giving a good look at any project that doesn't comply with the regulations, because the staff in charge of the administrative processing — which you always put into practice — are excellent professionals and they're the ones who guarantee that exactly all the impacts are evaluated and therefore only those parks that actually meet the current regulations can be authorised. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u107	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] In the replica round, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u108	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Count, starting at the end. As far as the distance is concerned, well, I am glad that I have consulted the amendments made by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, but I believe that you have not revised — and it is serious, because you are also a Member of Parliament — the amendments of the People's Party Parliamentary Group, where you are basically also carrying part of what you have enabled from the distances. [[Applause]] But two reflections. First, welcome to planet Earth and to which there is a problem, because there is no correspondence to the demands of the sectoral wind plan of twenty-five years ago — oh, surprise! — with the development of technology. Welcome, because they have voted a number of times — you, with your finger — against the opposition groups' requests to reconsider this issue and adapt legislation to new technologies. Welcome, but since they come here, they do well, because what they're doing is to enable an exceptionality which, in addition, generates legal insecurity regarding repotency, Mr. Conde. So check those issues. And if, indeed, we don't like the cannon, we don't like it, we don't hide ourselves; we bet on direct public participation in the profits of the sector, of course. Now, we also show by our amendments that if you see the wolf's scarf, you see them perfectly. Why don't they take advantage of the Law of measures to -- I don't know -- that the wind canon stops going down the coast by raising less and actually corresponds to the generation that is today? Look, that's what affects the bill we've already lived with you, with your law they did in Galicia and with the laws Mr. Aznar made first, the Law of the Electrical Sector, and then with Mr. Rajoy's laws of restrictions and economic cuts of 2012. Of course, and Galicia paid the most, 38 million euros. And you, as the People's Party ruled, voted here for this and so on, and then they didn't, they didn't ask the state to pay for that. [[Applause]] And that's more, they didn't want to go to the bottom of the problem, voting against a BNG bill, which was to change the state's electricity law so that it wouldn't happen again. So don't worry about that, we'll keep insisting. In any case, look, really, today you haven't attended the control session, and then I'm going to insist: stop blaming the others. Look, first, here we don't demonize any sector, you won't give us lessons, because the Nationalist Block Galego pushed a regulation of the wind sector that was a vanguard and that you fell for political sectarianism and it cost more than 3 million euros to the public archives. And I'll put the sale before the wound of the next debate. [[Applause]] We are also pioneers in the mining field, we were the first autonomous communities to have a specific legislation, because the Galician Nationalist Block has worked by the hands of the sector to make that law, a law with guarantees that you then commit to modifying through the back door with that accompanying law that they so much like. [[Applause]] But, well, if you tell us about paralysis, I'm not going to go to the past anymore. But, look, year 2020, zero megawatts installed. There were a few months of pandemics in which there were no administrative proceedings, well, but the 2021 is not much better, 50-60 megawatts; we're there, Mr. Conde. So, what's the paralysis? If this is your ambition, really, they take a little bit more of a little bit of ambition, because they need it. [[Applause]] I don't know if the fault that the Galician Union is not through and it doesn't strengthen the public system and doesn't enable better and guaranteed mechanisms as well with society and with the owners and personnel affected to thus have less opposition is the BNG, it's the fault of Mrs. Ana Pontón, it's the fault of Mrs. Ana Pontón's folders, it's the fault of the international right of self-determination, it's the fault of Venezuela, of Bildu. I look forward to seeing your subsequent argument, Mr. Conde, but the responsibility is yours, it's yours! Not just because they're ruling right now, is that they've been doing it since 2009, and you were already there as Mr. Feijó's advisor before you were a counselor. [[Applause]] Therefore, fewer balloons outside, because the responsibility for the problems of the wind sector, of paralysis, of access to public information, of environmental custody, of lack of economic return is absolutely entirely the People's Party, Mr. Conde. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Of course, we insist: they answer the questions that we raise in this inquiry: do they assume that what is happening, and what is happening also to the thread of that chapuza that they put into the law of accompaniment, angry around the world, unites councils of all political colors, unites social groups of all kinds — ecologists, agricultural unions, associations of neighbors, mountain communities, economic observatories —, also upset the patronal, the entrepreneurship itself of all kinds? Don't you assume that you're making a mistake, that it's a serious matter for the country and that it's better to sit down and talk? Look, this parliament was formed on 7 August 2020. If at that moment you were ready to dialogue, they would end up before, instead of passing express processing laws that are useless, actually making a dialogue of four, five, six months to do things right, because sometimes it's better to stop a little and think things out for action and that there are results. And, of course, the result that your wind model is having is this: lack of social and environmental guarantees, lack of economic return and a problem instead of being an economic opportunity. This Saturday — tomorrow — there will be many groups in this country claiming democratically and freely — because they are older — that they want another wind model, that they want another position in this very important debate. So correct it, because every time they correct it, they're right. And we will continue to insist and bring a motion to the next plenary session by insisting on these issues. And the later they give us reason, it's you who are endangering this country, first, because, if you do things, they're going to be badly done and there's going to be irreparable damage and a loss of opportunities also in the economic sphere; and secondly, because if you don't, you're also going to be a handicap for Galicia. So they don't repeat the mistakes of the previous crisis, in which you paralyzed this sector. They don't repeat the mistakes of when they've made irreparable damage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u109	Finish it, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u110	...that there are judgments, as is the case with the Iribio, and do something else. Rectify, listen, dialogue and plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor have the floor for replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Presas, the truth is that no one can please the Galician Nationalist Block. If we order the sector, because we order the sector; if we limit the sector, because we limit it; if we consent to the sector, because we consent; and if we do not consent to them, because we do not consent to them either. You should be clear, Mrs. Presas, because that's very hard to work on. [[Applause]] I don't think you'd be reminded in this speech of your stage in the government of the bipartisan. But, of course, if you tell me about the vanguard model of the Galician Nationalist Block, I have to make reference to what you were in the Government and that your model has already been evaluated and judged by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Maybe he forgot. And you should know that your bank partners accused you of trying to turn the contest into a digital distribution, your partners, not the People's Party. And I should remember that the wind decree of the Galego Nationalist Block has accumulated various resources from industry and eight objections, Mrs. Presas, from the Galician Consultative Council. And I should remember, in that vanguard model of the Galego Nationalist Block, that the competitions of the years 2006 and 2007 were annulled by judgments of the courts. Mrs. Presas, I don't think you can speak to the very high head of the gay Nationalist Block, because that's what Justice has done. In any case, I believe that this exercise of demonization of the sector insisting on illegalities, such as the development of the electric tariff, the Galego Nationalist Block, simply believe that it does not offer any kind of solution to the Greeks and above all it does not allow Galicia to continue to move forward in the installation of renewables and energy development, that this is the goal we are having in the Government and that simply the Galego Nationalist Block which is using is to put poles on the wheel for its development, simply using this parliament to try to confuse people and above all using that eccoxism of banner that unfortunately has no usefulness, especially to solve the problems of the Greeks. We're going to continue to advance in the consolidation of an orderly wind development. There was no reference to any aspect of it that really doubted that this government is applying legislation, being absolutely guaranteed from the point of view of the environmental and heritage impact and on any other aspect linked to the territory, none. Because simply, Mrs Presas, this government is applying absolutely strict and strict environmental legislation, which guarantees all the neighbours that no park will actually be allowed to comply with that regulation. And from that point on, the question is, what is the position of the Galician Nationalist Block? Shouldn't we comply with the law? Is that your proposal? Is that your model? For that reason, Mrs. Presas, don't tell the People's Party and the Galician Union of course. All projects, Mrs Presas, all wind projects are subject to an ordinary environmental assessment, which is the most secure according to the current regulatory provision on environmental assessment. And I remind you, Mrs Presas, that this assessment is the same in Galicia as in the rest of Spain, the same environmental legislation that ensures that projects comply with environmental requirements. So all you are is asking to stop processing in Galicia so that the wind sector is likely to develop in other autonomous communities. If that's what you want, because I really don't understand very well the policy you want to develop the Galician Nationalist Block. In fact, we are introducing improvements, improvements to be guaranteed, improvements to protect also the different environmental impacts, and the question is, what is the proposal that really does not respond to the fact that our model continues to guarantee from an environmental point of view the impact on our territory? We'll continue to bet on the green Galicia despite that black Galician who wants to paint the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on mining legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u114	You have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u115	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. Let's keep talking about the green Galician and the black Galician, too, Counselor. We're talking about it today because of a subject that worries a lot, but a lot, the whole citizenship of a whole region, that of Muros-Noia, and, in particular, the thousands of people who live from their work in that creek. We could set a number of examples, Mr. Counsellor, but undoubtedly the San Fins mines and the actions that the German Government has had in this regard for years now are a paradigmatic example of the model and design that the People's Party has for this country. Recently in November, the demands of Tungsten San Finx, of the Sacyr group, for permission for greening to the industrial waste water stream from the mining of tin and volframio located in San Fins, in the municipality of Lousame, have been put into public exhibition; and, on the other hand, the project of the same vessel fit for the removal of sediments accumulated in the hydraulic public domain around San Fins dams. But before we focus on these last steps taken by the company and also by the Government of Galicia, let's describe the context of the last twelve years, twelve years of popular government in the board of Galicia, which are the history of a conference between two mining companies and the Union itself, which is systematically obeying environmental legislation and, of course, all caution in ecological matters. To begin with, in 2009 the People's Party allowed a company to resume its mining activity without a project under environmental assessment — which led to the fact that various senior positions of the Industry Council are being investigated by Justice — and without public exposure. This decision continued with the adjudication of more than 2 million euros in grants between 2009 and 2013, including the 800,000 euros received from Igape, despite the negative technical reports; 2 million euros that we do not really know where they were, because in that 2013 the first company declared itself in a bid for creditors and left its staff with six months of unperceived payroll. Beyond this, you've been allowing yourself for more than ten years, with severe environmental consequences, to disagree with the company's obligation to maintain the safety of mining waste dams. And allowed them to lie, Mr. Count. They gave a report indicating that the arrests would be "irrefutablely hydroelectrically trapped" and not of mining waste, in order to cover this authorisation in 2009, without environmental assessment. The preys are neither today nor have ever been hydroelectricized, nor are they linked to any mill, as it has attempted to be seen. They are trapped in mining waste and their responsibility is for those who have the rights of mining and administration, who have the obligation to exercise that responsibility. There was a need for a 2019 water report from Galicia, ten years after you authorised the exploitation without environmental assessment, on the ownership of mines to corroborate what was obvious, which —textually again — "the management and exploitation of the two prisoners was carried out by the mining company". And now the public exhibition goes out again the greenery authorization for the current concessionaire to activate the mine, a project that is disguised as environmental improvement around the mine, and also the adequacy of the bed of the Rabaceras water, which, according to the project itself, is a compensatory environmental measure of the company to improve the global state of the river and to ensure the structural behavior of the dams located in it, but without performing actions in the prey's own body. If the responsibilities that the company has been evaluating since the concession were not enough, we find ourselves now with which it intends to simulate the performance — and I read again textually — "as a river dredged of less than 100,000 cubic metres". That's how you pick up the project, and pick it up precisely so you won't be subject to environmental assessment. And it's Galician Waters' report on the title of the prey that shows that the dragonfly is not such, but it's the removal of mine waste for its reprocessor. And this activity, Mr. Conde, is subject to environmental impact assessment. So you're still complicit in lies so that the company will continue without fulfilling its obligations. The lie of the prisoners and the absence of an environmental restoration in the area has had and continues to have consequences on the territory, consequences on which you must give explanations, and should give them, Counsellor, before you ask them for no trial, as they have recently had to deal with the Justice — I insist — high positions of the Industry Council. Some consequences on the territory of which BNG is not only talking. The Galician Water Technicians themselves in the water quality area in a April report this year clarify meridically the impacts that already exist and that come from the absence of an environmental restoration around the mine; a report that, for example, certifys that the maximum allowable values of cadmium — heavy metal — are exceeded beneath the San Fins mine. And in case all of this was little, now, with the request for greenery clearance for the clearance of mine galleries and their subsequent exploitation that you submit to public information without an environmental impact study, a new threat will occur. It's incredible, but the failure of repeated coherence between what establishes the norm and the action of the Union in San Fins mines is, at least, worthy of study. Anyway, you don't get enough, Mr. Conde, actually, what the law says, but we can also turn to the interpretation of it by the management's own technical staff. The March 2020 report of the mining engineer responsible for monitoring the San Fins mining group in the Provincial Energy and Mines Service states that it is necessary to continue the activity that has been approved by a fully environmentally evaluated mining project, and concludes this report with the recommendation to the Directorate-General for Energy Policy to "order temporarily suspend the activity within a year, requiring the holder to submit a full exploitation project to which the request to initiate the processing of the environmental impact assessment" is attached. You do not understand, Mr Conde — or yes — as the Galician Union insists on allowing this situation. Nor is it understood — or indeed — that this process of attempt after attempting to reopen the mine within the same file never ends. It's only understandable, ladies and gentlemen, by the existence of some kind of untrustworthy interest and by the convolence of the German Government and the company itself. And we see this convolence in numerous explanations that form part of the People's Party's argument to defend the consequences of proceeding in San Fins, as, for example, the fact that mining and seafood are fully compatible because it was already a lifetime, an argument that insults intelligence, because, fortunately, the environmental parameters that must be met in terms of water quality are not the ones of life. Scientific knowledge is also vastly greater, so to mention the past as proof of the compatibility of their activities makes no sense. And you, who are permanently installed in the past for what is right for them, want mining in San Fins to continue like a century ago. They forget or want to forget that the Traba stretcher, in the creek of Walls and Girl, where the waters of San Fins will stop, is an area of high density of heavy metals, where it cannot be watered despite its immense productive potential. Luckily, in the stream of Walls and Girl there are still many areas that escape these levels of pollution and produce high-quality seafood. And the BNG wants this to continue to be so, and it also wants more and more productive areas to be recovered that generate wealth and generate jobs in the area; many jobs more than those that would give to the San Fins mine. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u117	...—ending, Mr. President—Mr. Conde, they deny the impacts of San Fins, but fortunately in Galicia today we have scientific reports that dismantle their lies. The last one, which has just published a prestigious magazine at the University of Vigo, which shows that the contamination of the laugh by heavy metals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u119	...is directly linked to the mining activity of San Fins, located only seven kilometers from the river.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u121	I am finished and continued in the following intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u122	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pérez, I would like to thank you for your opportunity to explain to Parliament what is the real situation of mining in Galicia and, of course, the commitment we have to implement one of the most demanding legislation we have in Europe on environmental protection. You in your intervention, on a permanent basis, want to let hidden interests of the Galician Union and the People's Party emerge. I wonder which is the interest the Galician Nationalist Block has in closing any kind of mining activity. This is the reality. And, above all, what interest does the Galician Nationalist Block have in confronting people permanently? Why? I should like to remind you, Mrs Pérez, that the Galician Mining Management Act that we are applying in Galicia was approved by the Bipartite and was approved by the Galician Nationalist Block. And the counsellor at that time, the Galego Nationalist Block, said he was convinced that mining is compatible with the environment, the creation of wealth and the creation of jobs. What is the change that leads to the Galician Nationalist Block currently being against any kind of mining activity? Surely, if you were a little more cautious in your intervention, you could explain that in Spain more than 100 regulations are applied to ensure precisely that sustainable development of the mining sector and compatible with the rest of the economic activities, because, indeed, that's the objective of the Mining Management Act itself: to avoid any kind of impact on the environment through mining, but also to ensure its development and compatibility with other activities. We, of course, will not admit to you, Mrs Pérez — I say with all my cordiality — the amendment to the whole that the Galego Nationalist Block permanently wants to move to this parliament on the development of mining in Galicia. I don't think they should play with jobs and with a sector that is really betting on innovation, environmental integration and therefore on the development of wealth in Galicia, with a sustainable mining, with a sector, with a mining camera that is obviously committed to that development. I don't think he's responsible for his attitude and that political confrontation. I don't think he ought to take it in any case to economic impacts; a permanent demagogic speech that he's simply trying to put employment at risk in strategic sectors of our economy. Don't count, as I tell you, with the Galician Union. And in this context, as far as San Fins is concerned, it's curious. Weather reference of the Galego Nationalist Block to speak of San Fins: year 2009. From the year 2009 comes all the evils to San Fins, all but curiosity: who authorized the transmission of the rights miners of San Fins? The Galician Nationalist Block, when I was ruling with the Bipartite in 2008. Mrs Pérez, why did you authorize this transfer of mine rights if you understood that environmental aspects were not met and none of the guarantees for the development of your activity were fulfilled? It is true that this government, of course, is guaranteeing its development, approving the proposed updating of a mine which is still active today and of which, as you know, its activity is temporarily suspended, precisely pending, from the authorisation of vegetables by the waters of Galicia. And I'm going to focus on this, because, of course, we're talking about a mine that's active and has a reality that's just that there's a series of water that's currently emanating naturally, and since there's no kind of extractive activity, we need to make sure that this green water to the river is developed by natural parameters. That's the goal. I should tell people the truth. And I should tell the people that the Galician Junta, that Galician Waters, is trying to be a guarantor so that that that water that must be poured is produced with the natural parameters of the channel itself and, therefore, with all guarantees from the point of view of its impact on the territory, both in the river and in the river itself. I should tell the truth. And so in all that work that has been developing since the year 2019 precisely Galician Waters is setting these conditions to establish greenery requirements to eliminate all cadmium and all zinc and, therefore, so that the flow has no kind of impact. And you should know — and tell the truth — that, as long as the different controls are established, there will automatically be a control over the point of greenery in the creek itself; two controls before that water can reach its own creek. You should know that in these jobs what the Galician waters are doing is precisely ensuring that we can establish the purification of waste water from the San Fins mine. And so you should tell the truth and say what you want to do and what you're demanding of Galician waters is that this water is mined and that water accesses the river under the conditions of natural parameters. And that is the guarantee that activity can indeed be carried out with all guarantees from the point of view of impact. And you should transfer that Galician Waters demanded that a pilot project be developed to ensure that this debugger can actually meet the water control requirements. Why don't you tell the truth? Why do they always tell the truth in half and in their own interest? What is it against the Galician Nationalist Block that Galician Waters are protecting that, in fact, the vegetables can develop by ensuring that water returns to the river in its natural parameters? Why don't you explain it? Probably because you're trying to use this subject, simply, with political confrontation and confronting people. It's the worst, the worst thing the Galego Nationalist Block can do: to confront people; they always do it, from independence, and so, of course, they won't get far. You should know and tell me that, indeed, emptying and the environmental regeneration that you move will develop in two phases. You should tell me that in that first phase of the water drain it will develop in 494 days, more than a year, Your Honor, to be absolutely guaranteed how you see the water in the river and thus ensuring that indeed the conditions of the sewer are not altered. And, as I said, two controls: in the debugger itself, in the greenery point and in the river, and thus ensuring that, indeed, in the case of approval of this project that is presenting the company, it will comply with all the guarantees and that greenery will develop in the conditions laid down by the waters of Galicia. Your Honor, I don't know what's the objective of the Galician Nationalist Block, a dark target, unfortunately, because you're actually going to try to dye Galicia as a black one. But we're going to follow and persevere, we're going to dye Galicia green, wind green and green from the mines themselves too, because they are also part of that circular economy that must lead us to this process of decarbonization, with the impact that has its own mining wealth in the different economic sectors. Unfortunately, you're still in confrontation, we're going to continue in the drive of economic activity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u124	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Pérez Fernández has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I really don't understand why in this interrogation the Industry Counsellor, you, are the one who asks the BNG. Here the defendant is you and who has to answer the questions is you. He hasn't done it until now. [[Applause]] Whoever has just sown here comments, actually, that don't come to the story, it's you, only you. Look, he said insistently that I should know, that I should move, that I should tell, that I should know. No, no, I know as far as I know what I read, which was quite. But the head of the council is you and whoever needs to know is really you, and I have no doubt about it. That's why I'm surprised that, although I know, Mr. Conde, if you limit your advice to act this way in which you are acting, because the San Fins mine has a history of more than ten years ago, absolutely perverse background and that continues today. Look, you say the law you're applying is that of the Bipartite. I think it's the only truth you've ever said in all the intervention. It's actually the Bipartite. But one moment: one thing is the law, right? Because look, in 2014 this country didn't rule the Bipartite. It happened, for example, in the mine of Monte Neme — between Carballo and Malpica, you know — that it overflowed one of the garbage rafts. Of course, there's been and there's high consulting charges being investigated for this. Precisely the Prosecutor's Office focused on the authorization given by Junta in 2011, which also did not govern the Bipartite, the reopening of the Varilongo mine in Santa Comba, without environmental impact assessment, despite reports that warned that the exploitation could contaminate the waters. I mean, a case practically the same as we're talking about. Therefore, Bipartite law, well done law, without any problem, but its application by the People's Party is a real disaster. And that's what I said at first: because you don't know what interests, but of course by a clear convivence between the Galician Union and the company itself. [[Applause]] Of course, and you speak, Counselor, that we should know that the water that needs to be poured into San Fins, for authorization, industrial water, turns out you have all the guarantees, because you say there was a pilot project that proved it. Well, look, Mr. Conde, or you or the reports of the Galician Water Technicians lie, and I love it because you're the one who lies. Because the reports of Galician Waters themselves on this theme of the pilot purification plant found that plant, that experience, was an absolute failure. If you come to tell us now to the Galego Nationalist Block, but above all to the citizenship of the Comarca de Muros-Noia, and above all the one that lives in the river, that are thousands of people, who will be based to debug these waters in the experience of the pilot purification plant, then we do have to put our hands to the head, Mr. Count, because it was Galician Board reports itself, the reports of Galician Waters that put in place and engage in the results of that pilot experiment. Finished, Counselor. Look — and I tell you so clearly — the reopening of the mine cannot — not the Galego Nationalist Block, which also says, but the various reports of the Galician Union, reopen without environmental assessment and much less after all these background is known of what we are talking about. As there are many reports from Galician Waters, the Galician Board, we're actually wondering what we need most than the reports of the administration's own technicians, who need most to reconsider this decision and really be guaranteed and continue to protect the creek of the Lady-Walls. We really don't know what more they need, because if they expect what you say, what you called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u127	...—finished— literally, a series of waters that are pouring out, I invite you, Mr. Counsellor, to come and see that series of waters, I invite you to see it. Those aren't filtrations, it's really a stream of water...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u129	...unbelievable that you're going straight to the river, to rivers, which, of course, as the poet said, are going to stop at sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pérez, again in your speech, wants to generate doubts about the performance and protection of the environment of this government. The question I would ask you -- and I know you don't like it, but I would ask you this question -- is why did the Bipartite authorize the transfer of mine rights in 2008 and did not demand, at that time, comprehensive environmental assessment? It's a very simple question you don't want to answer. If they're so convinced that what they want to move is the incompatibility of this exploitation with environmental protection, the question is, why did the two-party government grant three aid in 2008 to this company, to the company that had mine rights? He gave him three aid in 2008 for an amount of EUR 830,000. I remind you: 120,000 euros to develop new techniques of exploitation, vertical wires in metal mining and nearly six hundred thousand euros for an investment project and a metal mineral treatment plant. O Bipartite! We, Your Honor, have no drawback - as you can imagine - in which these aids were granted. What I'm wondering is why, when you ruled, you defended the San Fins mine, even giving help, and now it turns out that the environmental impact of the San Fins mine has to lead to its closure. That, Mrs. Pérez, is very difficult to explain. People just don't believe them. It's that simple. You're devoted to worship and applause when the People's Party doesn't rule, and you're dedicated to confrontation and insults when you rule. I think they should probably review that strategy. But, look, here we're not talking about the Galego Nationalist Block, we're not talking about either of the People's Party, if it comes to me, neither of the Galician Union; we're talking about the neighbours of Noia, of Walls, of Outes, of Ribeira, of those neighbors who actually want to know what the impact of this mine's activity is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u132	Quiet. Quiet, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u133	Well, I love that you know so much, but you should probably focus on those neighbors because you just want to divert their attention. [[Laughter]] Look, I'd tell the neighbors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u134	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u135	...that, in the case of San Fins, the Council of Galicia will do what it will do is to ensure that, indeed, from an urban point of view, from an environmental point of view and from a water quality point of view, it will comply with the prevailing legality. That's what the neighbors have to understand and that, of course, if that wasn't, the project wouldn't be approved. And you've already shown this government, that when regulations are not met, the government doesn't authorize it. And the neighbors have to know that what we've demanded from the company is that you install a debugger that guarantees the best solution, fulfilling the quality parameters of the waters of the vegetable to the fishing river. That's what we demand from the company. And the neighbors have to know that we will approve the project always and when you can ensure that, in fact, the debugger can act properly to ensure that these quality parameters are produced and you have to know that, if approved, there will be a control at the point of greenery in the debugger and a second control in the stream itself, through the Intemar. Therefore, all guarantees. First, we have to evaluate whether they actually comply with legislation, regulations, and whether we can ensure that water meets the quality parameters. If that's the case, we'll approve it, and if we don't, we won't approve it. And, of course, what we're going to guarantee is that, in fact, any authorization that can be linked to this mine is going to comply with the current regulations and, above all, that it will transfer trust to its neighbours, because, unfortunately, the only Nationalist Block that it has is mistrust, confrontation and an attitude to have everything black, and I think that this is not a responsible attitude on the part of a political party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next interpellation. Da Noelia Otero Lago and three other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the xunta of Galicia regarding the collective of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in the field of work
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u137	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. We are today, precisely, on International Human Rights Day, a coincidence. We had thought, however, that bringing this matter to this Parliament, which we will soon be working on, but also because we think that we are at an important, worrying moment, which should be a moment and a point of inflection for all. Because we're at a time with a broth of cultivation in which, despite the recent warning of figures, statistics already reflect, unfortunately, not only on the institutional level, but on the social level, which is shutting down this hate speech. Here are those figures of increasing inequality, discrimination and even the aggressions associated with LGTBIphobia. We're living at the state level aggressions the daily headline blow, as you know, and what transcends in these cases is usually a very small part. Without going further, here, in Galicia, in recent months, we have experienced well-known cases; the most serious, unfortunately, is the event this summer with young Samuel Luiz in the Coruña, in the city of Coruña; of course, a murder, indisputably, with homophobic tendencies. We believe that, in the face of these situations, around these situations, of this disturbing panorama, as we say, that we are living, it is not enough to make statements of condemnation, however strong they are, not enough with institutional declarations, we all have to exercise our responsibility in the field of political, institutional, social and educational. At the Greek level, we have a law that we have come to invite it to develop, which is the Law of 2014, at all its points, in all its chapters, to avoid such situations. We are delighted and delighted that this law is not in the middle of nowhere, and all those rights that have been achieved that are being developed in our community. And here I am allowed to show all our support and solidarity, not only to the Socialist Group, but to all groups of the opposition of the Madrid Assembly, all the Madrids and all the Madrids, who are at this moment seeing how in a few days we can move forward in that campaign of the ultra-right to break the laws of the LGTBI Assembly. Not a step back! [[Applause]] From here, although, fortunately, we have no risk, as I said, the development of our law, if we would invite the President of the Council of Galicia, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to whom, within that responsibility we all have - and this said without any kind of accuracy or double return - as we saw in the celebration of the Day of the Constitution that closeness - to me lawfully - of the President of the Board of Galicia, in those photographs that were protagonists of many worn, and that affection, that relationship that he has with President Isabel Díaz Ayuso - well, although he is in private - advises not to follow the dictatement of the ultra-right, far right. Not that way, not that way! [[Applause]] That's also where we -- say -- responsibility, and we want to remember, as I said, on this International Day of Human Rights. And we make these reflections because this picture, this crop broth that we said are suffering from LGTBI people if they're also shaping in the workplace. This was reflected in this study, in that report that presented the UXT union in October. Work was done in different communities, with worrying data at all, but especially with high and worrying data in our community. In general, at the state level, this study ensures that 90% of LGTBI people consider their condition, their identity and their orientation in the workplace at the moment; of that 90%, the figure increases to 96% here in Galicia. 96% of LGTBI people -- almost 2022 years -- consider their condition, identity or orientation to be inconvenient. This study also shows other absolutely terrible data: 91 per cent of the Welsh and Greek or neighbouring neighbors and LGTBI neighbors consulted in our community consider it necessary to hide their condition or orientation in the workplace, and six out of every ten recognises having suffered some kind of inequality, discrimination, aggression, whether physical or verbal. Six of every ten people consulted by the UXT - I insist - in that study! So we find ourselves in Galicia among the three communities where the perception of discrimination that LGTBI people have in the workplace is higher and, in view of these indices, it esteems this parliamentary group that the Greek Government is obliged, in responsibility, to act and to do so, in addition, with care, with the possible tools. This whole situation stems from -- as this study also does -- that work -- in addition to many of these people, in this situation, what they do is give up for themselves the working rights they have, the rights to be able to accompany their partners to the doctor, to a hospital, the rights to accompany their children or even to have them, to enjoy free days when they enter into marriage. I mean, we are faced with the most perverse effect of inequality and discrimination: that LGTBI people themselves often see themselves in the obligation even to renounce the rights that are there in the agreement of their company. In view of this data, as I said, really worrying, UXT also made an approximation of how the different collective agreements were in different fields, and the surprise -- or not so surprising -- is the great void that exists in this sense. What they move is that even though trade unions have been working and trying to introduce measures, and administrations have done more, for example, in the matter of equality, in this case, in LGTBI, there is a great right to really conquer the equal rights of these people, and everything remains and is reduced to volunteering, and this, of course, as we say and seeing the data, is not enough. We therefore believe that collective agreements should introduce specific clauses that avoid these discriminatory situations and guarantee equal rights and protection for LGTBI people. For all this, in addition to insisting on the need to develop throughout its extension the Greek law of 2014, because there are chapters and aspects of this Law for equality and non-discrimination of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and inter-sexual persons of Galicia who are not - we think - to develop as appropriate, we insist on this need to ask the Government of the Union, Counsellor, to encourage, through the open tables of social dialogue with trade unions and with the various business associations, the specific introduction of equality plans in this matter; essential measures - we think - to prevent the vast majority of workers and workers LGTBI from finding themselves with the intolerable problem that this UXT report has just seen. For now, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. We know, indeed, that report of what you are talking about in this House, and we are aware -- the Government is aware -- of course, that the results of the document show that there is still a way to go to Galicia and that LGTBI people continue to face daily difficulties, discrimination and, of course, also in the workplace, because of their identity and because of their sexual orientation. But what I would like to say is to move the measures that we have taken time to put in place by the Government of Galicia and also the new measures that we are incorporating in order to encourage precisely in the business and productive fabric that improve working conditions, the professional promotion of women and men without any discrimination whatsoever. And if I would like to devote a moment to talking about the law which, indeed, we have adopted by most of this House in 2014, that Italian LGTBI law which is still in force, of course; and which is still in force for this parliamentary consensus which guarantees the principle of equal treatment, of non-discrimination in Galicia on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. It contains measures to prevent, correct and eliminate discrimination in both public and private sectors; in particular, it includes measures in the field of labour, it contains a number of provisions in this regard, it provides that trade union and business organisations, together with LGBTI groups, will promote inclusive measures, inform about the rules on discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity and promote the rights and visibility of these people in their workplaces. This law already collects concepts such as multiple discrimination, which can affect people because of their sexual orientation or gender identity; coupled with other conditions, for example, that of their disability. And, as I say, it's an effective law today and passed thanks to the consensus of this House. In Galicia we count on the Observatory against Discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, which was another pioneering initiative. It was set up in 2018 to comply with Article 7 of the Law of the Year 2014. It is a collective body, it is a consultative body with social participation, where, of course, the Administration and the most representative entities of the LGBTI community in Galicia are present and it is open to all who want to join. It shows — I think — the commitment that the Government of Greece maintains are the collaboration agreements that we have signed with the main entities of our community for some time; in particular today, they are 6: Arelas, Casco, Us, A.L.A.S. Coruña, Les Coruña and Pulse LGBTI. In this sense, this year 2021 we double the budget for these conventions, and this bet will continue to be held for the next year 2022. By focusing on what we were talking about in relation to social dialogue, the dialogue that the LGBTI collective has in Galicia not only occurs through the General Secretariat of Equality, but now through the General Directorate for Labour Relations, which keeps the social dialogue permanently open to address any issues related to the labour field and to the participating agents, which are trade unions and business fabric. In this sense, the general direction is working on a specific study on the problem and labour situation of the LGTBI collective, a study that will rise to social dialogue for its analysis next year 2022. And we are also working on the issue of equal work training, which, as you know, has started this year through a specific training campus in this sense, in a specific formative day that will be open both to representatives of business organizations and trade unions and to workers themselves with the objective, precisely, of raising awareness, training and raising awareness in organizations about the daily situation that these people face. We are taking measures on a cross-sectional basis — as I say — to raise awareness, information, training and also to support employment more intensively by the conditioners who place the working person at a more complex, more difficult starting point than others. In this sense, we have also just approved, through this Directorate-General for Labour Relations, the Guide to the Prevention and Treatment of Sexual Harassment and Sex Harassment in Pemes, published last September and also known and worked in social dialogue. The current legislation — as you know — requires that all companies without exception have a protocol for the detection and prevention of harassment, and in this same guide what we include is a protocol within themselves and other documents of interest, such as the model of complaint. With which, today, the guide is already at the disposal of companies and, of course, of citizenship; and in general, it considers, in particular, acts of harassment on the grounds of sex, those attacks that are contrary to the dignity of any person, such as a person who is a worker because of his sexual orientation, his expression or identity as a gender, transsexual or in the process of attribution of gender, or a woman who is a worker by being a woman or a man by being a man. In the field of training and work prevention — as you know — Issga, the Institute for Labour Safety and Health in Galicia, and also works with the aim of integrating diversity into preventive and business management to ensure equality and non-discrimination. Issga works to ensure that job prevention includes all kinds of diversity, including sexual, in order to avoid any kind of discrimination against working people. And I would also like to point out that, based on this approach — as I say — of cross-cutting action, we have developed programmes — as I said before — with incentives for positive discrimination for those groups who are most vulnerable and need it. This is the case, for example, of the Galicia Employment programme, which is directed — as you know — to facilitate incentives to recruit people who have the most difficulties in finding a job and which includes, in particular, an increase in the basic accounts of 25% of the aid for transsexual people, taking into account, in addition, a demand that has made the collective itself. This increase also occurs in other programmes, such as the Programme for the Promotion of Self-Employment, the Aprol Programme, the social economy and also in special employment centres. So I think Galicia has been, continues and will continue to be a respectful society, a society that is open to diversity. I also think that the Government of Greece and this board work in this direction in a cross-cutting way, and also in particular in the labour and labour sphere of these measures, we are working in social dialogue; that is, in terms of equality and employment, in order to ensure a more inclusive work environment, a work environment that is, as you said, safe and fair for all the workers and the workers of Greece, and in particular, so that the attacks and acts of violence that continue to be suffered by LGBTI people in Galicia are zero. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u141	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Otero Lago's word on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u142	Well, Counselor, the truth is that the paper supports everything, and many of these plans, of these measures, even of the chapters that have this Greek law are very good, but the problem is that on many occasions they don't meet. It's not something we say, the socialists and us. Without going any further, two weeks ago, at the last plenary session, we asked the Health Counsellor for his assessment of a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which had just condemned Sergas, in addition to sitting jurisprudence at the state level for the delay, for failing to comply with the operation with Sara, a trans woman who had to go to private health to operate and who then claimed to the Board that money. After many years in trials waiting — their situation, their health, he had not allowed them to wait any longer — it was derived and decided to go to private health and then claimed that money. The Board answered with silence. And it was a court, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which has just condemned that administration for failing to comply with the rights of this person, of Sara, to having the operation he had been demanding for years and time. So — we insist — we have already taken an initiative to the Commission in June, and I was the Secretary-General for Equality asking, among other things, for the development and compliance of all points of this law in the field of training and education, for example. We also ask that they contain the Galego LGBTI Observatory against non-discrimination, because we have an observatory that had only two meetings: one to conform and one after this appearance, in commission, in July, if I am not mistaken. But, as the different associations and collectives report, they have no resources, no activity, no content, with which they are falling -- we insist -- this year at the state level, but also here we have seen it with this data, with this increase in aggression and inequality in our community. Therefore, the Galician Observatory would also be a good tool for having objective data, for marking lines of work. It is often necessary to use the Coruña Observatory — which is what works, what has a functioning — to provide us with this information. We therefore ask them to develop the Observatory. Give him content, give him resources. And you also talked about resources but you didn't give the figures for associations and LGBTI collectives. The truth — you have removed the subject — is quite ridiculous — not to use a worse qualification — to see that in that budget project — and we present an amendment in this respect — for LGBTI Galicia collectives, 21,000 euros, advisor. They accept the amendment presented by the Socialist Party, the PSdeG, to multiply by at least four that amount, the EUR 21,000 to the LGBTI collectives. That is the weight that has doubled and the sensitivity that we have at one time — as I said — in what we have to put all the meat in the roaster because both at the social and institutional level we are listening to speeches that are silent, which are being the broth of cultivation. They're putting LGBTI people's rights into question, and at this point they can't be more sorry that we have to be in this Parliament or on the street defending the rights of LGBTI people or that they have to go, as in Sara's case, to a court for them to recognize their rights; rights that are, in addition, contemplated and approved in that Greek Law of 2014. And to finish, this initiative had a very specific meaning, which was that you from the Galician Union encouraged these tables and that social dialogue with the unions themselves, that you are showing, after this study, besides, as UXT said, all of your disposition and that you are recognizing that there is a very large void, because in collective agreements it is where you have to start regulating and regulating so that in no company these people have to suffer. We remember that 94% believe in their condition, orientation or identity and 6 out of every 10 in Galicia suffered some kind of inequality, discrimination and even aggression because they were an LGBTI person. In addition to developing plans, let us put resources on the table and really make policies to set an example, because, as we said before and so believe, we are not on the way in which the People's Party is in the Madrid Assembly with that agreement with Vox. Of course, we're lucky that we don't have it here, but we also have a lot to do and a lot to improve the content -- I said -- without going further, that data and that UXT study for LGBTI workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u143	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u144	Thank you very much. As I told you, we are aware — exactly as you are — that we must continue to move forward in the fight against discrimination by gender identity or by sexual orientation. And that's why we make these collaboration agreements available to the collectives, these safe channels of periodic contact, and specific support to address needs and problems and to help everyone or any entity that needs to find effective solutions. The Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity is functioning; and indeed, at that meeting, at which I participated myself in the month of July, in addition to the joint institutional declaration that was made for non-discrimination against the LGBTI collective, if lines of work were marked. In particular, three working groups were set up at that meeting: one in the field of education; another in the field of sports; and another in order to meet the needs of vulnerable groups, such as older persons or persons with disabilities. These groups constituted the request of the entities and once they were dialogued within the Observatory on their creation. The next observatory meeting to further deepen the results of these working groups is planned in the first quarter of next year. So, if I think that in Galicia we have activated the Observatory and we have structures of dialogue with representatives of the LGTBI collective in Galicia; in fact, it is open, as I said, to all entities and associations that want to communicate to the Council that they want to participate in the Observatory. If I would also like to take this opportunity to point out the lines of action that we have planned for next year in relation to the forecast that can be made or the development of specific clauses of protection and combating discrimination against LGTBI people in the field of work within collective agreements. If we have to remember, on the one hand, that it is not the responsibility of the self-government to regulate the content of collective agreements. The preceptive content of collective agreements must regulate the State in the Staff Regulations of Workers. And, on the other hand, of course, the remaining clauses fall within the autonomy of the parties' will when they negotiate the conventions. What can we do as a government? Of course, to encourage and create a culture within the organizations, both business and trade unions, so that they actually negotiate that content that is a device in collective agreements today. And to that end, it's what we're working with, as I said, in that dual sense. On the one hand, by analysing in that report, in particular, the employment situation that exists right now and the specific problem that the LGTBI collective has in employment, so that it can put new measures in place and encourage or propose, through social dialogue, measures that can be incorporated into both the private enterprise and, of course, the public enterprise as well. And secondly, to incorporate into this equal training special attention into the collectives who are particularly vulnerable, within which LGTBI is found, because they are at greater risk of some kind of discrimination. For that reason, as I say, in this training that will be expanded, as you know, in 2022 and in the field of labour equality, we will devote a part, a day and a specific training to raising awareness and raising awareness about the situation, the daily problem, that these people and all the workers suffer, and, of course, those responsible for the human resources of companies and trade unions can be trained to prevent, prevent and know how to act in situations of discrimination and harassment around the workplace. As I say, it is important to say that both the conclusions of this report that are being drawn up from the Directorate-General and the content of this specific training will be addressed before, as we always do, in the Bureau on Equality that we have set up in the social dialogue. Then I would also like to point out that the General Secretariat of Equality is working on the preparation of the Report on the Development of the Greek Law LGTBI. We have already submitted other compliance and self-assessment documents in this House. And I want to make one last mention of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which I think is also important. They know that we in Galicia have a collaborative agreement to control compliance with labour standards and that the Labour Inspectorate is responsible for handling the sanctioning procedures which, if we are to say what we are talking about, could result in cases of harassment or discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. I also want to inform you that this body, prior to the pandemic, met with representatives of the LGTBI collective in Galicia, and committed itself to the immediate processing and with the greatest speed of any complaint that exists in the autonomous community because of discrimination on the grounds of identity or sexual orientation. So, of course, there are things left to do, there is still a way forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u146	Thank you, President. Of course there's still a way forward. Now even if I think that everything I've explained to you is good evidence that we're working on, that the Galician Union is working to fight against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity to ensure the fundamental rights of this collective and to raise awareness and raise awareness of professional, business and trade union organizations in that sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u147	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u149	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to point 7 of questions to the Government. Question by Mr Martín Seco García and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the situation of the car industry of Vigo due to the lack of supply of semiconductors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u150	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, second vice president. The car sector worldwide is suffering from a lack of semiconductor supply, a question which is affecting the different companies in the sector that has Vigo district, and specifically the Stellantis factory. According to this factory, there are 24 top-level suppliers affected by the global shortage of semiconductors, with at least 11 critical components, which forced the factory to suspend to date nearly 300 work shifts. Summary: Ballados has stopped manufacturing 110,000 vehicles due to lack of microchips. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe it is necessary for the German Government, of which you are a part, to act urgently, since it has competence in employment, training and industry. You lead a global plan for the sector that will minimize this negative impact that this situation is causing to maintain employment and its quality. The axes that must articulate this plan must be consistent with social agents, industry companies and trade unions. The axes are the training and the search for new industrial projects. Training is a mechanism that must be used to improve the competitiveness of workers in a sector that is undergoing a radical change in mobility, which will require a re-training of professionals working in it and combine preparation with an economic mitigation of the negative impact this situation is producing on wages, enabling the production capacity of the sector and decent jobs to be maintained. On the other hand, this situation is demonstrating the need to re-localize certain activities in Europe that have been relocated in its day. Therefore, the Galician Union must lead the active search for opportunities for the location of these new investments which are being discussed within the European Union and which will count on recovery funds. Galicia cannot afford the luxury of losing production capacity, as it would cause a significant loss of employment, and it would also be difficult to achieve that production again because the decisions of most multinationals take thousands of miles from here. One of the most important industrial sectors in the region of Vigo and the Galician region is also needed through locations of industries related to the new needs that the sector will demand in the short term. That's why, from our parliamentary group, we want to know what their government's initiatives are to tackle this semiconductor crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u153	...in the district of Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u154	Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Gallego, I would like to thank you for bringing to this Parliament the situation of the Galician motor vehicle so that you can continue to work in a strategic sector of our economy, which is actually going through for a moment of difficulty in dealing with the problems that are taking place in an international context, marked by the lack of microchips and semiconductors. But if you really wanted to make a rigorous and non-partisan diagnosis of the situation in the automotive sector, you should probably also reflect in your intervention the problems that are taking place in Spain, marked, in this case, by the instability that the Government itself generates. There are many open fronts, Mrs Gallego. You know that we are faced with uncontrolled inflation, with 5.6% in November, due in particular to electric prices, with a rise in taxes and taxes, including registration tax, which is seriously affecting the sector itself; with the demonisation that you, as a Socialist Party, are making diesel; with the delay in the execution of European funds itself - that, when you talk about the next generation funds, you should know that in terms of industrial policy, the Government has taken 100% of the funds and therefore the autonomous communities have no capacity to mobilize any kind of action linked to these funds - and also in view of this lack of agreement on the labour market. Having said this, Mrs Gallego, if you really want to make an assessment of the situation in the automotive sector, we continue to work, linking to the strategic plan of the cluster itself, so that the sector can anticipate and address the challenges of future mobility and so that you can really have that position. He knows that the Galician Union has invested more than two hundred million euros in these years so that the Galician automotive industry can be placed in the vanguard of the self-connected and eco-efficient vehicle, and we will continue to bet on training, as we did in the past, with the formation of more than 9,200 professionals, and of course also with that new agenda of capacities that is designing the Employment Council. Speaking of semiconductors, you know that we are facing a European plan, of the European Commission itself, of semiconductors. We have sent a letter to the President of the Government precisely to transfer to him that Galicia is looking for new opportunities in our territory to be able to respond to this European plan and to ask Spain to keep that active participation in the design of this initiative that seems absolutely relevant to the automotive sector. We hope to be able to work together, precisely from Galicia, with that plan, as I call it, European semiconductors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u156	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u157	Thank you, President. Today's news: "The European Commission gave green light yesterday to Spain's aid scheme to relaunch the automotive sector with EUR 3 billion". This is news today. The Government of Spain is in the car, Mr. Second Vice President. Stop blaming the central government. [[Applause]] That's good! I'm going back to saying, what solution do you have? What do you have to do with the microchips crisis? What's the solution? Look, all you said was Mr. Feijóo's statements, which, if I may, I'll read literally, "What we have to look for are formulas and solutions between us all to deal with the damage caused by the so-called microchips crisis in industry." Well, what formulas? What solutions, Mr. Second Vice President? What formulas and solutions? That we're talking about thousands of jobs in Vigo!, jobs!, jobs! This doesn't seem to go with you. Industrial policy doesn't seem to exist for you, seems to be missing. Really, where is... where is it? We can't really see the industrial policy of the PP. It's amazing! [[Laughter]] It's incredible! [[Murmurs.]] You, balloons out, balloons out all the time. It really doesn't matter what we're talking about, whether it's industry or what it's like, that you have nothing, nothing to do with it. And I also want to remind you that the Vigo Free Zone is carrying out several projects with the Next Generation funds, and all related to the automotive; that is, you could follow the steps of the Vigo Free Zone a little bit, because they are with projects that are susceptible to the Next Generation funds: with green hydrogen, photonic circuits and so on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u159	Where...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u160	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, I fully understand the difficulties that the Socialist Party of Galicia has in acting as spokesman for the Government of Pedro Sánchez, I understand it perfectly, and that is why I understand he gets nervous in his intervention. What I ask you is: why do you, the Socialist Party of Galicia, not defend the position of the Galician Union when you are claiming to the Government that the competences in industrial policy are of the Galician Union and that, therefore, the next generation funds linked to industrial policy should be managed by the autonomous communities? Why aren't we serious? What is this to say is that the powers are of the Galician Union and that the funds are managed by the Government of Spain? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Where are the competitions, then? Are you not realizing that your party is nullifying competition from autonomous industrial policy communities? Don't you realize? From there we can start talking. But what we expect is to see the small letter of this PERTE that is authorized by the European Commission, because we do not know the conditions of injury that this PERTE has, because the Government is hiding them. And what we expect is that, in fact, the Anchor project is fully in line with the criteria that the Government has defined. Because that's what you're defending the Unity of Galicia. He's defending a project, the Anchor, with 1.2 billion euros, defined by the sector itself, precisely to bet on the connected car, by the electric car in Galicia. And we wait, I say, to see that little letter and we hope you have that opportunity. And you tell me about the semiconductors. I have just transferred to you that the European Commission is developing a European semiconductor plan, with a public-private investment of EUR 40 billion in ten years. What we asked for and moved from Galicia to the Government of Spain, in writing to the President of the Government, is that Spain is positioned on that European plan and that we really have the capacity from the manufacturing centres of the automotive sector in Spain to position ourselves in order to locate investments linked to the production of semiconductors. I'll let you know that I hope the Government of Spain doesn't do the same thing you did with the batteries, that we lost the battery train just because we didn't make this bet. And I'm telling you it doesn't look good, it doesn't look good. Look, France, in this plan, already has EUR 6 billion to help the automotive sector in your country; Germany and Italy, EUR 3 billion; and Spain, only EUR 500 million linked to the next generation funds. Let us hope, Your Honor, that the Government, who has raised 100 percent of the European funds that corresponded to the autonomous communities, will act with responsibility in this area so important to the automotive sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u162	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the protection of the Groba greenhouse, of Mount O Galineiro and of Mount Aloia before the processing of the authorization of wind farms
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u163	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u164	Good morning, Mr. Count. Today we want to bring to this Parliament the voice of thousands of people, of dozens of associations of eight municipalities that are concerned and that are outraged by the threat that involves the processing of wind farms in the Galineiro mountains, the Groba in the Valga Mountains and also Mount Aloia. Today we bring here the social and institutional outcry against these projects of alteration and degradation of greenhouses that have an extraordinary beauty, wealth and interest and are unique in the world. Some questions or some questions should be asked, how do we ask ourselves: Why do 170 groups refuse these projects? Why did 100,000 signatures be submitted against these projects? and why are the eight municipalities of Lower Mine and Valminor, of all political colors - including the People's Party - rejecting these projects? You should think about it. Mr. Conde, something is wrong to put everyone against the policies of the People's Party. We have more questions for you: why do you want to destroy priority ecosystems and habitats that should be protected by the Natura Network? I'm going to tell you why: because they want to favor private interests, private companies, and put them above the interests of people, the environment and the country. And they want to go through spaces that are declared areas of priority interest. [[Applause]] Or do you want to convince us that windmills are elements of priority landscape interest? You want to destroy protected wetlands and habitats that are essential for the conservation of the mountain's Greek horse, which is a characteristic species of the Groba saw, the Galineiro, the Valga mountain; by the way, even today when a report from the University of Coruña alerts us that Galicia runs the risk of losing the wild hairs that take care of the mountain. That's how you look after the mountain, and the wild horses, Mr. Count. [[Applause]] Look, this picture corresponds to a great demonstration that took place last May 16 in Groba's greenhouse. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] He dares to look at it, Mr. Conde, he dares to look at the crowds that are protesting against the policies of the People's Party. You don't want to look at this picture. For these people did not manifest themselves against the wind projects, against the wind energy, against the renewable energies; this multitude manifested itself against the abuse, against the prepotence and against the imposition of the policies of the People's Party. And I told him clearly that they will not allow the destruction of their mountain, the destruction of their environment, the destruction of their ways of life. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, it's amazing that you want to move here legal, technical and environmental lessons about the wind sector. I remind you -- I have transferred it to his fellow parliamentary group -- that the wind decree of the Nationalist Block Galego had several resources; that three contests have been cancelled; that you have developed, Mr. Bará -- they have curriculum -- 36 wind projects between August 2005 and September 2008 with 863 megawatts of installed power; that you have authorized, Mr. Bará, six parks on the Natura Network and that your then president, Emilio Pérez Touriño, clearly transferred it as they did an wind competition that did not offer any kind of guarantees from the perspective of land management, environmental sustainability, the economic viability of the projects; and that they were therefore trying to allocate the parks to their friends. That's your resume, Mr. Bará. So, I'm so surprised that you're here trying to move the people that the Government is processing parks; that is, are you promoting parks the Government? What is this we want to destroy the wetlands? But what political barbarity is this! It's low-level politics, Mr Bará. The Government does what it does is to process the projects presented in its processing, the Government does what it does is to ensure that these projects comply with the regulations and the Government does what it does is to ensure that if they do not comply, they are not allowed. That's what a government does. [[Applause]] So, Mr Bará, it's good to try to deceive people. With regard to priority business initiatives, it does not mean that they will be authorized, Mr Bará, simply means that they are given priority and that the processing times are reduced. They have to meet exactly the same environmental standards as any other park. And all parks, Mr Bará, have to comply with an integrated environmental authorization, have to have a positive environmental impact statement. Why do you want to fool people? What is this government wants to destroy wetlands? But what a barbarity! It's a political irresponsibility, not to say anything else. In any case, I regret that you follow that confrontational attitude, because that's all they're doing is trying to scare people, and people don't deserve it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u167	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u168	Mr. Conde, don't come here to lie, because I have to tell you something to be clear once and for all: who prevented wind farms from being made on Natura Network was the government where BNG was at the Industry Council in 2008. And if the expansion of the Natura Network that was planned for that -- which you also started in 2012 -- were carried out, these parks we're talking about now would be stored in a drawer and they wouldn't be in processing. [[Applause]] So it's your responsibility to get these parks through. And look, if my arguments aren't worth it, I'll give you others. I'm going to read a quote to him: "If you ask me my opinion of singing mills in our saw, for I say you explore other alternatives. Even the mill saw doesn't seem the right thing to do." Cristina Correa, mayor of Oia of the People's Party, of the same council that presented 35 sheets of allegations, criticizing, questioning and rejecting these wind farms, like the other municipalities. [[Applause]] I've already told you eight town halls of all the political colors that have been opposed to these wind farms. And if you don't get the arguments from the associations, people -- that a part is represented here, in this Parliament -- if you don't get the arguments from the BNG, because I'm going to give you the arguments from the Board itself, specifically the arguments from the Institute of Territorial Studies, which made a report contrary to this Albarinho I wind park and which says it would have critical impacts, since it would alter the values of the affected landscape areas of interest. What else do you want, Counselor? They give them folders to these projects, protect the Groba saw, the Galineiro saw, the Valga mountain and the Oia coast, as planned and as provided for by the landscape areas of interest, and develop a sustainable, fair, respectful wind model with the environment and people and which favors the development of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u169	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, the language you use in Parliament is very curious about the wind sector. You're always trying to move these projects. Mr Bará, these projects are being processed, and you're telling me that prevarics; that, as an advisor, sign the cancellation of the processing of that file. No, Mr. Bará. We're in a state of law. I understand that the Galician Nationalist Block, as an independent party, understands that this rule of law does not apply to you, but does apply to Galicia, Spain, Mr Bará. [[Laughter]] We have a constitution, we have a statute, we have laws and we have regulations. And the obligation of any responsible public representative is to apply that rule. So we are going to continue to process the parks, and what I can transfer to all mayors and all citizens is that, indeed, we are going to ensure compliance with all these regulations, which environmentally protects any kind of impact that is not collected in it. Therefore, with regard to that report of the Institute for the Studies of the Territory, they have no doubt whatsoever that it will be analysed and resolved in accordance with their own regulations. What you can't come here is try to transfer that we're already approving that park. It must not, but do it, and it does it for a matter of political sectarianism, nothing else, but not because it really has any kind of political rationality. That's the way you're demonizing the wind sector. They're against the wind sector. What they should ask themselves is why. Why don't you defend an orderly planning? Why don't you defend a moratorium, which we're bringing to the Budget Law? Why don't you argue that you can actually increase the distances and that of the current 500 meters you can reach five times the height of the air conditioner? Why do you not argue that 77% of the territory in Galicia is shielded against wind farms? Nature Network. You approved the parks, it's in the administrative files, and you should know -- and I'm telling you more calmly -- that in Law 8/2009, the wind sector, it's exactly where the construction of our projects on Nature Network was prevented. This is the reality, and unfortunately you are still reluctant to use an economic sector as an element of political and social confrontation. That, essentially, is an absolutely regrettable issue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u171	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Alexandra Fernández Gómez and Maria do Carme González Iglesias, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece regarding the deficiencies in education in the locality of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u172	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u173	Thank you, President. Counsellor, here is a brief chronology of the sad reality of what is happening recently in public education in the city of Vigo. 1 October: The educational community of the Saladino Cortizo Special Education Centre focuses on Prince Street. They were forced to mobilize to denounce that the board decided to amortize the social worker's square after it retired, a figure that is most important in this type of center, and more so when 35% of the student, as happens in this case, are users of social services. That square they cut was vital to ensure an integral education for the student that addresses aspects that go far beyond the purely educational ones. October 13th: the ANPA of the Castile of Navia school focuses together with the student to demand more specialized professors to address the increase that is living in this centre of students with special educational needs, and they also denounce the lack of a department of guidance. I don't know if you know that in this center almost one out of three students needs that special attention and there are only two teachers to attend to them all. Counsellor, the mergers to denounce the lack of teachers do not cease to take place lately, to the point that the AnPA Olympic Federation coined the term "black youth" of education in Vigo. October 21, Black Thursday in the Paraixal center of Vigo: the educational community focuses on the courtyard and demands guidance, a specialist in hearing and language and another in therapeutic pedagogy. November 18, another black Thursday at the Santo Tomé Institute, which focuses on the institute door to denounce massification in the classrooms. The Union eliminated one of the first groups of the ESO and caused the thirty students to be overrun by class at this time; that is, they are failing to meet the limits legally established; and, in addition, they report that there is an guide for 817 pupils and students in that centre. Counsellor, this situation is widespread in the educational centers of the city of Vigo. But not because they're generalized, we're going to accept it as a rule, we're not going to normalize this situation, because they're having a tremendous negative impact on educational quality. First, for students, who need specialized care — they are the first to suffer from the consequences — but also for the rest of the student, who sees the quality of education diminish, because the teacher is overpassed and because they have to attend massive classes. And finally, the professor himself is also affected, which is making him burn with these systematic cuts. Counsellor, the black youth of the educational community are a constant call for attention to this situation before you have to do something, once and for all. If you continue with this situation of infringing on teachers, we're going to have the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u175	Simply end the question:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u176	Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u177	What are you going to do...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u178	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, the truth is, after listening to you, I was very concerned. Any citizen who listens to you with that -- let's say -- such a tragic stance on education would be worried. Anyone who only listens to today's speech you made would say that in Galicia we are in an absolutely disproportionate and abusive regime of the education system. The truth is, fortunately, we can confront with all democratic legitimacy this so alarmistic stance with what is reality, and the reality is that you absolutely reject the speech so tragic and catastrophic that you pose here. Galicia is the autonomous community that has a higher number of teachers in relation to the number of students, has a higher ratio, in Vigo and in any city. Galicia is the autonomous community that has not only lowered quality in recent years but has improved absolutely all the qualitative and quantitative variables that measure the health of an educational system. Galicia is the autonomous community that devotes more resources per student from Spain to the educational system per student. Galicia has many indicators that place us at the head of Spain, in results, in equity, in equal opportunities, in value formation. However, listening to you, it seems that we are almost in a regime of the previous century, practically. I think it is good, Madam, that, in addition to your legitimate ideas, if you consult, if you approve, if you confront the actual data. And you're telling us here, after a very alarming vision, that in Vigo we practically have no teachers or we've practically abandoned the educational community. In Vigo in recent years we have made tremendously powerful investments. You quoted Saladino Cortizo. You've already answered here. It has six teachers more than it corresponds to catalog, catalog, by the way, done at the time of the Bipartite; six more teachers. In this school itself was invested very recently 1.6 million. Rodríguez Castelao de Navia was also mentioned, where it invested very little 3.2 million euros ago. And the same could be said of the Holy Irene, with more than 1 million; of the Virgin of the Rock, 2 million and peak; that is, investments that are undoubtedly significant. And they're also significant teacher templates, because, of course, all the necessary teachers who set up the Educational Inspection are in the centers, and there's a figure higher than those of years before the pandemic. As for integration, Galicia is Spain's most inclusive, no doubt. In Vigo, in particular this year, we doubled the number of preferred care units and we have eight caregivers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u181	...more than in the past course. It's obvious there's always needs and shortages, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u182	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much, then you have another shift, Counselor, then you have another turn. [[Applause]] Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u183	Counsellor, you want to confront democratically with data. We are going to confront, because you have a lot of words — I would say — and you have very general data, but very little specific data on the situation. [[Applause]] Spanish College: it needs more teachers specialists in therapeutic teaching, hearing and language, and an educational assistant. College Masters Goldar: requires a full-time AL guide. Paraixal schools, Valadares Sopraira and Josefa Alonso need more hours of PT, AL and orientation. Collegiate Sculptor Acuña: the Board has suppressed the place of specialist in AL, with promise of recovering it; they are still waiting. College Six of Christmas and Castro Institute: there's a missing guide. Instituto de Santo Tomé: they have saturated classes, with thirty-three students per class, failing the maximum ratios set, and they also need an advisor. College Celso Emilio Ferreiro: they need another specialist from PT and another from AL. And you could go on, Counselor, you could go on. These are data. And it could also go on with many other issues that affect not only the teacher, but the infrastructure problems, the poor food that is given in the Vigo dining rooms by the board or the need for more public centers, because they are massive, like the so-called Navia institute, that another year, unfortunately, in the budgets of the board because it is relegated again. [[Applause]] This is what's really happening. They are concrete demands that accumulate year after year and that it had to be the ANPA Federation of Vigo itself that made the X-ray center by center of what was happening. They're up there, if you want to know what's going on, meet them and talk to them. If their problem is that they lack dialogue in San Caetano and they don't know, they talk to them. [[Applause]] But I don't think the problem with Joina is that they don't understand it, but they hear each other deafly, as they did at the Institute of Chapel, where he passed on the entire directive because of the lack of an advisor, and it's still today that they haven't even responded to the letter of resignation from the directive because of the lack of that guide. [[Applause]] Counselor, stop doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u184	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u185	...hearing deaf. What are you going to do to solve this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fernández. Your time is up. Thank you very much. The Minister for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor to reply to the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u187	Madam, I suppose you will assume that the decisions taken at the administrative level by the Education Council are based and based on inspection reports. I suppose this argument — as it is often said — will politically buy me. Because if you think that teacher's staffing decisions are arbitrary, that the counselor can decide them, that he can arbitrarily decide them because any collective or political party would actually be very wrong and it would be very worrying. But look, I'm going to tell you clearly that Vigo's educational centers have the teachers and the staff needed and necessary to be able to cope with your task. And finally the educational results are above the table, in Vigo and in the Galician set, and the teaching density is the same. And I've told you, we can be a disaster, we'll probably be terrible, but Galicia is the autonomous community that has a higher percentage of teachers in relation to students and Galicia is the state's most inclusive autonomous community about attention and diversity and about providing educational assistance to students who need it most. Obviously, we can generate the speech we want, and -- let's say -- the demands in education or in health are infinite. Now, we have to adjust to resources and we have to adjust to what we see in this case the inspection reports. And you're talking about integration, and it's true -- I told you -- that in the templates we have the number of preferred care units that we have in Vigo have doubled this year. And to the situation of specific centers that you quote has already responded here, but she insists. Saladino Cortizo has six more teachers than he does by catalogue. It will be to some extent because the inspectors understand that if it is necessary and in this case it is given above the catalogue, a catalogue that they made, in this case, you, the Block and the PSOE, at the time of the Bipartite. Or we can talk about the Rodríguez Castelao center, what you're talking about. Resources are the ones that set in this case the specific guidance team, both in caregivers and teachers. We don't take arbitrary measures, we do what we need to do to ensure quality education, which, of course, in the last ten years I think it's fair to acknowledge the absolute qualitative and quantitative improvement in this area. And as for Navia, I think you, who talks about data, will have to look at some more data. There are 8 million for Navia in this budget, 8 million for Navia in the plan of pedagogical architecture. As soon as its partners, the Socialist Party, approve of Navia's urbanization project and can be executed, an educational centre will be built. You have to ask your partners, the Socialist Party, to hurry a little more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u188	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u189	...for the resolution of municipal licenses so that this institute can be held. 8 million euros in the Plan of Pedagogic Architecture of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u190	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you very much. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia, on the relationship of social entities benefiting from aid from 0.7% of the income tax for physical persons to promote equal opportunities for men and women and to fight against gender violence, as well as the type of actions subsidized
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u191	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u192	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor. From the People's Party, we always believe that the work of third sector entities is fundamental. We are great advocates of what is called pluralism of well-being, which implies that public policies are designed on the basis of a shared responsibility between the State, the market and the social initiative. In this model, the State is no longer the main instrument to provide a collective supply of welfare services, which is shared by the social initiative and the market. It is therefore about increasing the efficiency of services and the ability to choose users. Therefore, the role of civil society is increased. We in this area do not share the goals of the left in relation to these entities. We all remember that deputy who had arranged his money for them to use public money to create what they called popular institutions of resistance, that is, groups that were willing to speed up, when asked to, but also to put people when they were out of political office, because, as that left-wing deputy said, militancy does not only support the air; he also said that it is necessary to let popular institutions sit down to be sheltered when the government is an adversary; ultimately, a parallel administration that they use as a rotating port. But for the People's Party, the work of third sector entities is essential, especially in the current context of socio-health crisis caused by cowardly-19, to ensure the protection of the rights of people in a vulnerable situation. In this sense, instruments such as Law 3/2015, of 9 October, of the third sector of social action, or 0,7 % of the income tax on natural persons for the realization of programmes of general interest for social purposes, are becoming fundamental; instruments that enable the development of programmes and actions by social entities referring to our Community and for the benefit of people who need it most. Recognizing the need for the development of these tools, the Galician Union has just resolved the granting of grants to implement programmes of general interest for social purposes aimed at promoting equality between women and men and preventing the fight against gender violence from the tax allocation of 0.7% of the income tax for natural persons by 2020. And for this reason, Counsellor, we want to ask you: what are the social entities benefiting from the aid under 0.7% of the IRPF to promote equal opportunities between men and women and to fight against gender violence? And what kind of performances are subsidized with these aids? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u194	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Aid from 0.7% of the income tax for natural persons is effectively linked to government programmes to promote equal opportunities for women and men and the fight against gender violence, with the collaboration of non-profit entities in the third sector. You are asking, in particular, about the last resolution, which is the resolution of the year 2020, the latest call for an order which has made available to associations, foundations and other non-profit entities a total of EUR 640,000 to finance various types of actions and programmes of general interest and for social purposes. Applications are of a different kind. Fundamentally, four are added: information and training for women's empowerment and active participation, addressed to women in a situation of special vulnerability and object on many occasions of discrimination of different kinds; a second type of programmes, which promote entrepreneurship, self-employment and training and improve women's training, which are aimed at improving employability and employment; another type of education and promotion of comprehensive health of women; and a fourth programme, support and comprehensive treatment of gender violence, addressed to women victims, and with special attention to groups, such as girls and adolescents, women with disabilities, older women living in rural areas, migrant women and victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. These actions were carried out in particular by thirty entities in the third sector of social action in Galicia; thirty entities and each one with their ideas but with a common axis of action, which is to work in their respective areas in this fight against discrimination and gender-based violence. And the relationship of entities is starting to point out. Foron Cáritas Diocesan de Santiago, Cruz Roja, Federation of Associations of Peoples Days of Galicia, Association Española Against Cancer, Cogami, ACCEM, Southern Ecos, Doctors of the World, Fundación Ronsel, Fundación Anar, Fundación Secrétado Gitano, Association of Women in Equalty of Burella, Grouping of Rural Entities Terra and People, Fademur-Galicia, Patronato Conception Arenal, Action against Hunger, Radio ECCA, Red Española de Entidades por el Emplomento, Fundación Friends de Galicia, Fundación Amigo, Fundación Juan Soñador, Igaxes, Apetamcor, Association of Aid to Marine Mental Disease, Mixture, Arelas, Fundación Ergue-Integração, Down Vigo and Association Amicos. This order of help I am paying has been repeated again this year 2021, and if I would like to say that in this edition we currently have a budget of EUR 445,000 and it foresees an extension to an budget of EUR 742,000, which makes it that since the program was launched in 2018 we are destined for ninety programmes of this kind EUR 1.6 million. At the moment, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u195	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Prado del Río has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 8 March 2018 we met a report from Georgetown University and the Oslo Peace Research Institute that placed Spain as the fifth country in women's welfare. It's about the global index of women's peace and security, a study that compares eleven indicators related to inclusion, justice and security and analyzes the years of schooling, financial inclusion, female employment, mobile use or gender violence. In June 2018 — three or four months later he began to rule in Spain the Socialist Party and Podemos — after three years of this government, the last Global Index of Peace and Security Report places Spain in item 15, ten places below the previous edition, in which Spain, with a Government of the People's Party, presided over by so-called Mariano Rajoy, held the fifth place, only behind Iceland, Norway, Switzerland or Slovenia; yes, without exclusive ministry of equality. So what's the Ministry of Equality for? Well, for a little bit more than putting in friends, friends and friends. In fact, the most growing budget match for the year 2022 is staff, yes, 4 million euros more, twice as much as in 2021. It increases the share of high office, increases by 23 people. And Mrs. Irene Montero now has 88 people in charge, hires as advisors convicted of assaulting police, charged like Sánchez Mato or Celia Mayer for wrongdoing. And with these members, what are you going to do with those 500 million euros they have for the Ministry of Equality? We can't wait. Nothing, they did nothing in indispensable legislative amendments, neither in the Criminal Code nor in the Law of Trafficking, nor in the integral of gender-based violence; nothing in compliance with the State Covenant. And, therefore, we are no longer left, Counsellor, than to congratulate the Government of Greece on the work they are doing for equality in collaboration and in coordination with the entities of the third sector, which are the closest to women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u198	Thank you. These grants which are intended to finance programmes under 0.7 % of the IRPF are one of the various programmes carried out by the Employment and Equality Council working with third sector entities. If I would like to point out that we have been funded since recently, since 2018, which has started, these ninety programs. It's more than 1.6 million euros managed in collaboration with the entities. And also highlight this year's call, which is going to reach these 742,000 euros, which makes it the most credible call since the same began. But, as I say, there are other programmes that we carry out in collaboration with these entities, and to highlight above all the subsidies given to social initiative entities for programmes directed to women who are particularly vulnerable. This year it is planned to take out another grant order with 1.4 million euros to fund specific resources of personalized and specialized care for women victims of gender violence, sexual exploitation, refugees, ex-prisoners, etc.; with which in 2021 they received aid already 80 social initiative entities, since 2009 they have been more than 762 programmes. And, as I say, we continue with these aids for next year. And all these projects are carried out thanks to the involvement of those non-profit organizations and, of course, of all the people who make up the associative fabric in Galicia and who work with the most vulnerable women within the autonomous community, with a clear commitment — that we have to thank, of course, the Government — for human rights, for the values of solidarity and equality of opportunity, for inclusion, for participation, for a commitment that, of course, we share in the German Government and that we are expanding every year. And I use it to point out that in 2022 we spent 18 million euros exclusively to continue fighting against gender violence, we spent 2 million euros to promote labour equality and more than 13 million euros to continue working on the promotion of equality, putting particular emphasis on promoting female business leadership and also supporting reconciliation. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u199	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María González Albert and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the coverage of all radiodiagnosis and Traumatology specialists squares of the Valdeorras Public Hospital
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u200	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u201	President. Good morning, Counselor. Last Sunday more than four thousand and five hundred people from Valdeorras' health district spoke out in defense of their hospital and their health services. They fight for a basic right, the basic right to public health, before which is a premeditated, systematic and planned abandonment by the Galician Union of what was a leading health area in many respects at the time. Today we've been dealing with a specific issue here, which is the lack of traumatologists and radiologists at the Valdeorras Public Hospital. But we do so without losing sight, Counselor, the structural problem facing public health in the district. Services that were settled today directly don't exist: we don't have a heart surgeon, we don't have a urologist, we don't have rehabilitation doctors, we have a dermatologist, we're missing matrons, we're missing gynecologists, we don't have a 061 base, we don't have a medical ambulance, and now we have an internal medicine service that's 50% of your resources. Look where you look, therefore, it's a disgraceful dismantling, which the Union has denied by active and passive, waiting for propaganda to be imposed on reality, as it happens on other occasions, and for the vexorresian citizenship to live — we live — day by day. But it's very difficult, Counselor, to impose advertising when it's the health of the people you're affected to. Today there is no one in the whole region — except perhaps the Mayor of the Street — who denies the evidence of this dismantling. It's more, you yourself had to travel to the county three days before this mobilization, and after months and months denying the biggest one assumed for the first time the existence of a problem — point, yes, said. That day you did two things, Counselor: on one side, you first changed your negationist speech — which was already unsustainable before the evidence — and on the other hand you tried to paralyze that mobilization, and you did it in addition to the worst possible way, which was insulting citizenship. You said, "What is done in the street is to destabilize or help destabilize the health system." I suppose, Counselor, that some mayors of their party who manifested themselves with their neighbours also desisted public health. Let me tell you that whoever defies the health system is the one who consciously disarms and disarms it, leaving more than 30,000 citizens deprived of the basic right to health. It was good for him to correct his words and assume his responsibilities on the matter. You came to Valdeorras and all of a sudden it was as if the Santa Claus had arrived, everything was present. We've had no trouble having a new gynecologist -- although it was a lie, because when you announced it you already knew that another was walking in its place -- a new echocardiologist and a new traumatologist, one of them in concert with Leon's private. It was, of course, the opportunity fair. Would you have gone to Valdeorras — and, by the way, could you bring Sergas' manager, who doesn't know the hospital yet — if there wasn't that strong citizen reaction? I'll bet you don't. Would you have offered to hire traumatologists? No, no, no, no. A year ago, in December of the year, I asked him right here, in this parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u202	Thank you very much. Time's up. You have another shift later. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u203	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Albert, you have no doubt that we always respect people who are free and peacefully manifested. I'm going to read a sentence to him: "This demonstration is nothing new. They are always the same, with the same slogans and arguments, namely opposition and related sectors. They're still with the same canteen." Maybe this government said it about Valdeorras' demonstration, but no, this sentence is from the mayor of the Pontevedra Town Hall, the BNG, about a neighbouring protest directly accusing the platform calling for a career for municipal elections. That's not what you heard from me, Mrs. Albert. [[Murmurs.]] That sectarianism is more like you. I respect all the dissenting opinions, of course, about the management of the Valdeorras Hospital, and about the people who came in good faith to that protest, concerned about the future of your hospital; of course about it. But I've already warned that this demonstration would be used partisanly to discourage public health, and now you're here giving me the reason. It has been said that in the text of your question you point out that the weekly concentrations in Valdeorras began a week before the debate on the state of Autonomy, what a chance!, don't you think? We, regardless of the protests, know the situations and act. Look, I haven't been to Valdeorras three days earlier, I've been a month earlier — if perhaps your colleagues at the union that's in front of the commission of center — have not told you. And we knew the critical situation in which the Traumatology Service was located from the hospital, with only a professional, and we acted. [[Murmurs.]] As I say, we've been acting in November. And you know what we did? What no one had done, Mrs. Albert: put the whole structure of Sergas -- I repeat, not three days before, but more than a month before -- at the service of the Valdeorras Hospital. And that's why, as long as we don't permanently cover those squares that we have of Traumatology, all the health areas in Galicia are going to rotate and ensure the health coverage of this neighborhood. That's what we moved to the representatives of the hospital staff and the council representatives on the 25th, that there were solutions, that there was a desire to put them on the move and work done to throw them off the road from January 1st. Moreover, we also announced that two days after December 1st, a traumatologist had already begun working and that since November 5th, a traumatologist had been conducting consultations, with nearly 400 patients seen in that period; solutions that — I repeat — are novices and that involved talking to the Traumatology services of all areas of the Greek health and telling them that priority number one of the Welsh Health Service at that time was the coverage of the Traumatology of the Valdeorras Hospital. These are the managements we've done and the ones you ask me about. By the way, one day after that announcement, political representatives went on to say that they kept the demonstration because the problem of the Traumatology Service had not yet been solved, that problem that although it had been solved was not the main one, that the main one was others. Well, look what happens, the Traumatology Service is solved, and that's why you're asking me right now. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u204	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. González Albert has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u205	I don't know, Counselor, if you can look back a moment. I'm teaching you a first appointment from Trauma to December 2022, an appointment that was issued two months ago. [[Mrs. González Albert shows a document.]] The problem of Traumatology is not solved, and the people at Staff Board told him the right thing; it's not the biggest problem, unfortunately, that we have in the boat. [[Applause]] Bringing a Lion traumatologist to make a few queries, Tuesday and Thursday afternoon, will you solve the problem? Do you think that solves the problem? I remind you that in this way they are also covering the vacations of the only traumatologist left on the boat, who is today enjoying their vacation days. The two traumatologists who announce for January will come — in case they arrive, we will see them — to make guards and some consultation. You also said so on your visit to Valdeorras. Does this guarantee for you the health service in our district? The Barco Hospital is an hour and a half from Ourense. Since April 2021 — since April this year — more than a thousand transfers have been made, nineties a month — according to their own words as well — with only one unit of mobile UVI that we have available in Valdeorras. This is the reality. And the reality is that you don't have the absolute political will to solve the health problem in Valdeorras. Because, if they wanted to, they wouldn't offer a square in Ourense to a radiologist who was going to Monforte, having this problem we have in our neighborhood; they would offer the boat first. They'd make Valdeorras' squares more attractive. [[Applause]] You say, among other things, that Valdeorras has the younger Sergas waiting lists. And, in fact, that's right: there are no waiting lists, because we no longer have services to manage those lists. [[Applause]] The problems in the health district of Valdeorras are — I repeat — absolutely structural and will only be solved if we restore the health area. They do the work that the citizenry has given them. Stop hiding, really, in the professionals and in a rule that you yourself have tailored to, and guarantee the right to public health in the district and district of Valdeorras. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. González Albert. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u207	Thank you, President. Mrs. Albert, I know perfectly well the situation and the other problems we have in Valdeorras. And I insist again that the main problem the Hospital de Valdeorras has is Traumatology; I have no doubt about it -- and so did the commission of the center. And I know him because we keep track of each and every one of these problems. You know perfectly well that the two radiology squares were deserted in the transfer contest and that it was not possible to cover them because the recruitment lists of these specialties are exhausted. If we did it in 2018 when there were four radiologists at Valdeorras Hospital, and three traumatologists, by the way. But, as you know, he also knows that coverage is done from Ourense, reporting radiology telematically, without any kind of impact on the quality of care. By the way, just as it was done when there were four radiologists in Valdeorras and they reported radiology for Ourense from there. He also knows — as we have told the unions and the mayors — that this month the work of reform of the pharmacy, day hospital and major outpatient surgery begins, and that the reform of external consultations begins. In total, an investment of 1.6 million euros to expand this hospital. Nobody invests 2 million euros in a center that wants to dismantle, as you say, Mrs. Albert. And if we wanted to dismantle Valdeorras, we wouldn't have the market for a new radiosurgery team that implanted this summer, nor did we incorporate the two ultrasounds — that you don't deserve any kind of attention that are incorporated there — and that had invested between 2020 and 2022 1.5 million euros in reinforcement equipment for this hospital; for example, the 106 new beds contract that we're going to put in the hospital. So we act on every front: improvement of staff coverage, improvement of infrastructure and improvement of equipment. We are awarding professional training in hospitals like Valdeorras, since professionals who opt to work in these centres will have more scores for job offers, recruitment lists and careers. And we demand that the central government legislate by fulfilling the agreement envisaged in 2018 to expand the possibilities of incentives for these difficult-to-cover squares. So we know about problems and we work on solutions, but we also know what problems we don't have. For example, we do not have the problem of having to suspend the surgical interventions of the hospital because of the lack of anesthetists; this was passed to the hospital in 2006, with another government, which allegedly defended the comarcal hospitals. We don't even have any care problems arising from the fusion of health areas; on the contrary, this merger is allowing a coverage of many specialities that would be impossible today in Valdeorras if it hadn't been done, as some asked, and among them you. I'm talking about, for example, medical oncology. When did you get the Valdeorras Hospital medical oncology? Any time in your story? You know, since you've been in the opposition, because you sure once when you were there, they didn't know anything else. And let me quote the provincial director of Sergas in 2006: "There's a project to create unique management areas, but it won't affect when you create the care issue, but only the management." Just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u208	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the 20 measures submitted by the Galician Council to the Ministry of Health to improve and facilitate the accreditation system for health training squares
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u209	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u210	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, in recent months since the Government of Greece has repeatedly expressed the need to expand the number of health professionals in order to address the deficit of primary care. We know that this is not an exclusive problem of our Autonomous Community, but that this deficiency is common in all the health systems of the Spanish state as a whole. From Galicia, from this very chamber, we even express and agree that one of the fundamental issues to be able to address this problem was to simplify the accreditation system of the new MIR squares. This would make it possible to train more professionals, who, after the end of their years of residence, can opt and join the Greek health system. This question — I insist — has been asked and neglected on several occasions, both in committee and in plenary. We know that this solution is essential to provide coverage for the need that we have of specialists; there is no other way. Following the Monographic Meeting of the International Council on Primary Care, the Ministry of Health asked Galicia and other autonomous communities to submit the proposals they considered so as to improve and simplify this system, and Galicia complied. Galicia has referred twenty proposals to the ministry and has made firm commitments, initiating a new management decree for the specialized health training system, which aims precisely to increase the number of professionals who can cooperate with training, among other issues. Counselor, we're facing a big problem. And we know and we're told that since the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the Council of Health, which you manage and manage, you're working around and constructively to offer solutions to the reality of lack of professionals. That is why from the People's Group's bench today we have formulated and we are interested in clarifying here in plenary session that these twenty measures sent by the Galician Union to the Ministry of Health are being implemented. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u212	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. As you said, Mrs. Friend, in order to address this shortage of squares common to the Spanish national health system, from Galicia we have made different proposals to the Ministry of Health. Indeed, one of the issues that we consider essential is the convening of these extraordinary squares in the MIR system that enables us to move forward towards a solution to the shortage of staff. That is why we have transferred to the Government of Spain the agreement taken in this parliament — as you referred to — with this extraordinary measure at a time that also requires a singular approach. In addition, we continue to reiterate the need for the creation of the Emergency Specialty, which the professionals claim and on which this parliament was also pronounced earlier. We know that this is one of the issues that govern not only the specific and homogeneous training of these professionals but also that these services cease to be the final destination of the residents of family medicine who complete their training. Galicia had also requested in June the holding of a monographic interterritorial council on primary care, which finally took place at the end of September and in which the improvement and flexibility of the conditions that facilitate the creation of training squares were sought. Thus, in October the Government published a public consultation on the speciality training programme, in this case of Community family medicine, and the criteria for the evaluation of specialists and the accreditation requirements of teaching units. From Galicia we have indeed submitted a total of 20 proposals, which have been prepared with the collaboration of the heads of specialized training in the health areas. Regarding the primary care training program, we understand that it is essential to incorporate tools or knowledge of active aging and chronicity, as well as telemedicine or digital health, to continue working on remote processes through the implementation of systems such as Telea. Also, of course, attention to chronicity. On the other hand, if we want professionals to stay after their primary education has been completed, in addition to other reasons, we believe that it is necessary for time to increase at the educational stage in health centres. In addition, we suggest modifying issues related to certain too restrictive requirements which exclude smaller health centres, such as those in rural areas, and which prevent the accreditation of others. This would increase the chances of accreditation to more centers and allow more patient- and community-related training. It is also necessary for residents to be given greater autonomy and to be able to attend a consultation without the presence of their tutor, and to do this for longer, until now limited to two months. As far as accreditation issues are concerned, we also ask for the system to be open permanently, or to relax the tutor's connection to the device, which is causing us a lot of trouble in believing in all the new centers. Galicia has also made an important effort to renew its centres, and we believe that there must be no minimum operating time to believe that centre. We also believe that a minimum of professionals should not be established to have an accredited centre, not to harm communities like ours, which has the population so scattered. And, of course, removing relationships with the number of beds, the dimensions of the health center itself in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u213	Thank you very much, Counselor. To reply you have the word to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u214	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. It's a fact that we all know that health is a priority for the People's Party Government. For years now he's been working, once he's diagnosed the problems, and, detected how these can be corrected, put all the necessary means to make his solution possible. And we know that this call for MIR squares is fundamental, to make an extraordinary MIR. Also the creation of this emergency medicine specialty. A widely debated issue, and even the three groups of the House agreed and we reached agreement on it. But both questions depend on the Government of Spain, the same thing that seems to be making deaf ears to this demand so far. We think training is essential, and you talked about training. Without training it is not possible to move forward and we know that Galicia has been a pioneer in technological progress for years. To continue to advance in telemedicine and digital health, as well as in related matters, such as active aging and chronicity, are fundamental to our Community. In fact, those improvements that I was talking about improving the accreditation system, the training system, that residents can have greater autonomy, because they are essential for continuing to retain talent in our Community. We know what efforts are being made from the consulting department in improving health services and we've seen it now, so you've just explained to us and those measures that have moved you to the Government of Spain, a government that has so far failed to comply with. But that's not an obstacle for the Galician Union to continue putting everything on its side within the scope of its competences to be able to count more professionally and equip them with more stability. Further progress in primary reform is essential to provide the necessary professional system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u216	On the second shift...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u217	Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, Mr. García Comesaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u218	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. It is clear that the goal of all is to continue to advance in this reform of primary education and to provide the necessary professional system. That is why we have made proposals at the state level — as we have just commented — and we have taken the necessary measures within the field of our competences. In order to be able to count on more professionals and endow them with stability, we have already adopted in 2019 the implementation of the continuity contract, which, despite the fact that you very little like the opposition, has allowed to consolidate in 2022 86 squares for those professionals who have been engaged in this contract for more than three years. By the year 2022 we also included the proposal to develop the functions of health technicians, who could perform primary support functions, such as IT management. We also created the category of optional primary care specialist, which will facilitate access to the most professional system and will also allow to complete ordinary activity through a mixed service with attention at the continued attention points. Even so, in the field of training, at the end of November, we published in the Transparency Portal the draft decree on the management of the health training system specialized in our community, which aims to establish the measures, mechanisms and teaching structures needed for the training of specialists within the competences of the autonomic field. The text aims to regulate and homogenize the teaching work of the training of medical specialists. Even so, this norm also consolidates something that, since the Council, we have been talking for a long time: the need to recognize the work of tutors and teachers for the purposes of professional career, transfer contests or similar procedures. With regard to doctors in training, as I have already said in this Parliament, Galicia sent all the documentation to the Ministry of Health to believe 64 new training places for primary care, thus passing from 142 to 206 — which means an increase of 45% — and we call for them to be incorporated into this call. It is an important effort, as we must remember that all these squares are financed solely from the budgets of the Autonomous Community. The Ministry only regulates, as can be seen in the first part of this question, how the communities, who do so and where. But I repeat that all the budgetary burden lies with the Community. That is why we believe that the Ministry should respond to the requests — in this case Galicia — that, apart from the constraints to apply for its own MIR, they want to improve and facilitate the training of the whole system — especially the linked to primary care — towards the common goal of having a stronger and more staffed health system. To achieve this goal, we need to act urgently. We have already done so by asking the Central Government to have the same sensitivity to the problem, because we are at risk of having an unsustainable deficit of primary care staff in the coming years; which is why we hope that this issue will be dealt with at the next meeting of presidents, as Galicia has already requested. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u219	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and D. Martín Seco García, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in the face of the severe loss of chestnut production in the campaign of 2021 in Ourense and Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u220	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u221	Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, as you know, chestnut production is currently a fundamental activity for the economy of different regions of the Ourense mountain and Lugo mountain, as it generates vital incomes for the socio-economic dynamization of these areas. These municipalities had an excellent harvest this year 2021, but from the summer onwards the situation changed for various reasons — among other things, for a leafy disease that caused the loss of fruit. In Rios, Viana do Bolo, Gudina, Vilarino or Mosquita, the sick chestnuts were detected. Cumulative effects caused by ink, hemp, pineapple, climatological reasons, etc. were also noted. In this situation there is a loss of production of between 70% and 80%. These ugly circumstances for this year's harvest are not left in the report, Counselor. The disease that attacks the chestnuts not only implies the loss of production this year, with which it means itself, but also centenary bumps are drying from the top and they may die if they don't find a suitable solution. The president of the Protected Geographical Indication of Castaña explained that he had to refuse a lot of goods because half of it had to be thrown away, estimating a different incidence across the Greek territory but to a greater extent in the high areas. This serious problem is affecting a chain made up of producers, warehousekeepers, distributors, marketers and processors. We found ourselves, Counselor, with empty warehouses and processing industries without raw materials. Another problem that directly affects the sector is the failure of generational relief, as a result of the depopulation that is suffering from areas within the province of Ourense and Lugo, of which this parliamentary group was already counting on yesterday morning's appearance. We would like to know, Counsellor, that he explained to us why the last forest council, held on 8 November, amended the Order of 2 August 2017 establishing the Castaine Bureau, and that the most remarkable changes were to reduce the number of annual meetings and also suppress the chestnut as a forest product. We must also point out, Counselor, that we have not found in the Council's website the strategic criteria and indicators for follow-up that should be part of this. This parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to enable strategic aid to the chestnut sector through Igape. A technology transfer is required between the R & D system and the producers, and you have not accepted it. And we are wondering what immediate measures the Government intends to take in the face of the severe loss of chestnut production in the 2021 campaign in Ourense and Lugo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In several of the issues you are commenting on, we agree; for example, that it is obvious that in the mountains of Lugo and Ourense the chestnut is a sector of great importance. And I would like, first of all, to talk about, indeed, the disease that has affected this year in a special way. It's a fungus. We did what we did, as soon as we had the slightest knowledge of this possibility, was to activate the corresponding alarms — as it cannot be otherwise. We took samples of leaves, hedgehogs and chestnuts, as well as wood, up to six municipalities affected — some of which you mentioned —: Viana do Bolo, Castrelo de Val, La Mosquita, Vilardevos, La Gudigna and Riós. These samples have been sent to the Areeiro for analysis. And here we have confirmed the existence of several fungal complexes and insect miners of the chestnut. The most important, without any doubt, is nomonosis, with such important consequences as the defoliation of the chestnut tree, the appearance of the dry fruits and the premature fall of them. Regarding this fungus, it should be noted that it was first detected in our community last year 2020, but given the weather conditions of 2021, it has increased its presence with the consequent condition. After establishing the diagnosis, we activate the network of phytosanitary warnings by publishing — as I said — and spreading the corresponding alert. Here's what it's all about to keep forestry and landowners informed. And what we did was we moved a series of strategic initiatives that allow us to minimize the damage caused by the fungus, such as the removal of the remains of chestnuts falling on the ground and, in particular, the removal of damaged bears. But in addition, towards next year, we're going to increase the control plots, distributed in Galicia's biggest interest jumps. Finally, we are talking about a total of 41 plots that will be located in the trunks with a view to assessing the health situation on the ground. It is true that the chestnut has an important condition of hemp, ink, pineapple and now also of these fungi. But, Your Honor, I want to transfer you that only this year 2021 were destined about 2.6 million euros the health and health of Galician trouts. And I'd like to say on this shift -- and on the next one, too -- that the strategy bet by the Rural Councillors' Office in relation to the chestnut stock is taken into account in the strategic plan that you remembered. He was presented to the Forest Council for his contributions, in order to put him into effect in the same year 2022. And I've already come forward that one of the fundamental objectives of the strategy plan of the chestnut tree is precisely the recovery of traditional bumps, so you say and we share: the concern about the need for their recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u224	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u225	Well, until now the data indicate that the strategic plan still remains in a mere statement of intent, because, from the creation of the IXP of the Galician chestnut, Counsellor, less than 3% of the total of the area of Greece with plantations of chestnut trees collected on the forest map is welcomed to these acronyms; symptom, we understand, of the difficulties existing to raise awareness of them and to raise awareness of the productive part of the advantages and importance that production is certified under the stamp of the IXP. And with regard to the processing industry there is also a certain stagnation in the number of companies participating in the market, no doubt conditioned by the difficulties of finding guarantees of supply of chestnuts on the market without depending on imported raw materials. Thus, only ten first-processing and marketing companies and six processing companies based on chestnut-based products are currently registered — values that remain constant in recent years. The statistics speak for themselves, production of certified chestnuts in 2011: 68,000 kilograms, production of certified chestnuts in 2020, 24.961. The reduction is drastic. The chestnut sector does not have help from Joining for entrepreneurs, new incorporations, improvements, etc. You can't turn your back on this sector, Counselor. We are pleased that this strategic plan is being developed and implemented, but they urgently need concrete measures, an accurate diagnosis of causes. You said there were some studies, but the training courses for producers are very scarce. And we also have to tell you that if you're betting on this sector, you had to pass the amendment, because it was an amendment that gave you two and a half million, specifically, this strategic plan for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. Thanks a lot, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u227	...increase an R & D in this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u228	For the Government's reply, Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, with all due respect, Your Honor, believe that getting a strategic sector as important as it is in the chestnut will not depend on an amendment, or on the approval of an amendment. In what I fully agree with you — and I am convinced, in addition, is the importance of the chestnut sector in certain parts of the Greek territory. So we have to work among all -- as you also say -- so that we can actually make sure of more brown in the protected geographical indication and, above all, that we can develop this sector in the most professional way, with knowledge and training of our forestry workers. You were talking about the Chestnut Bureau, which is precisely a body about which we intend to reactivate, to put it into operation — which has already been held — with the idea that we can collaborate in that public-private area on the development of the sector. But while we've been working on the strategic plan, we've done more. We have created, as far as the General Directorate for Planning and Forest Management is concerned, the Castaña Unit, which will have extensions in the territory, in the Lugo mountain and in the Ourense mountain — specifically in Riós in the case of Ourense. And we're including, within the strategic initiatives of the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act, new plantations of chestnut trees. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that, within the sector, there are different sensibilities, the Conseilerie du Medio Rural, the Junta de Galicia, will bet on the plantations of new bumps but also on the recovery of traditional bumps. As I say, this is taken up in the strategic plan that was sent to the Forest Council and is waiting for contributions from the sector. But besides, he's also been anticipating what is the selection of those municipalities that have those traditional bumps. And so we have a first priority, which has already been taken to the Council of the Union, up to 45 municipalities, which will take the recovery of traditional consignments on a total of 2,000 hectares before 2025. We have taken into account a number of criteria, such as, of course, the existing surface of these traditional leaps, but others such as the degree of depopulation of the municipalities in question, and the existence of applications for the planting of chestnut trees and the use of such seedlings in the manifestation of interest published by the Conseilería do Medio Rural or the existence of associations itself. I'm going to tell you that, for me, one of the fundamental objectives of the Recovery Law is to implement the joint management groupings, i.e. the possible recovery of the totality of soot in those traditional bumps. Let's hope, once the Forest Council makes its contribution to the Strategic Plan, we can put it into effect as soon as possible. Because, as Abel Buhier said, chestnut bumps are one of the most important elements of the Greek landscape. You don't have to come outside to tell us that, but we agreed and we all agree that it's a very important part of that rural Galicia that I'm sure we all want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u230	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Dr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding compliance with the current legislation on mexilla extraction
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u231	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u232	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. The problem of the mussel conflict is generating an hardly bearable tension between drummers and fellows. But drummers and fellows have been living in the sea for more than sixty years, in the rocks, without any problems until this government has arrived. Basically until this government intends to throw one on top of the other to throw them into the sea. They have no fault of you or others that you're trying to manipulate them, use them, to try to solve problems that are your management. We are concerned, firstly, because we don't understand that counseling promotes confrontation and, secondly, because we want and we must ask them, really, to stop this confrontation, that you work to solve it. Because people who work at risk, threatened, who see the danger and uncertainty of what might happen to their work, can take unnecessary risk situations, can live under a tension that leads them at a given time to be wrong. Something may happen and this is not desirable for anyone. You are, however, dividing to win. They feed this conflict. Why? This is the question we ask ourselves. The cheekbone lives in the rocks where it also comes out, and hence the drummers go to the cheekbone and the fellows perceive it. Why is a conflict now fueled? Why is there any illegality with the collected? There is no complaint, no complaint. Is it because you hurt or you get it? No way. Technicians constantly warn that the problem is in balance management, how much product can be extracted each year to manage it well. And the reports say there's nothing wrong with that. You won't find anyone who says it's the drummer's problem. If you mismanaged that balance, it's your responsibility. Don't put it on others. There's probably a hidden reason. There's got to be a revenge, because you don't forgive the drummers who stopped the Aquaculture Law, and that's the question. You still have that nightmare there. This government does not forgive the people who show themselves to it and stop its laws. And therefore they're returning them. How? Infringing on legislation. There is a regulation of the year 2000 that is being breached. They're not allowing drummers to do the work they have to do to get us the best mussel in the world. And they're doing it without being able to justify their failure to comply with the law. They show up without dialogue, they want to blame each other... and they go to the fellows and they hurt the drummers, and the drummers hurt the fellows. What are the consequences? Sea workers at risk because they can't keep working. But not only they, too debuggers, cooks... the Mexican stamp of Galicia — which is very important for this autonomous community — have just been unable to aspire to a European quality and guarantee stamp because you do not intervene in resolving the conflict. They left us with the Prestige, they wanted to sell us with the Aquaculture Law, and now they want to take them out of the sea to the edge of the mussel conflict. And the question, Counselor, is: Why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. To answer, you have the floor of the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u234	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all. Mr. Torado, the truth is, I'm not going to let you make a statement as short as you just did, saying that we're facing two sectors and saying you're breaking the law. Look, here I believe, on the one hand, that the Council of Galicia is fully aware that both the decree and the order governing the extraction of the cheek are being complied with. And I can also say with tremendous roundabout that the vast majority of professionals, both in the specific resources sector and in the battery sector, are complying with the law. You can't tell me that I have a vendetta against anyone, or that I speak ill of one or another, when you know that we've been trying to reach an agreement for a sustainable exploitation of all resources. Look, our position has always been very clear. We must comply with the regulations coming from the European Union. We have to give credit to say that we are making sustainable exploitation in Galicia both in the environment and in the social and economic fields. And so we're doing it, and so we believe it. At this very moment, there is a motion for a resolution establishing a series of closed areas for the extraction of the mussel to protect the resource of the perception. We're talking about 17% of the closed coast for the realization and 83% of the coast at the disposal of the shipowners so they can pick up their seed. We've been working since minute one so this conflict doesn't exist, so they can live together in both sectors. I'm a very worried person because I understand it's a strategic sector for Galicia, as is the sector of understanding, or as are all those who work in the different sectors and subsectors of fishing, seafood and aquaculture. In this case, that resolution has a time limit for allegations. I'm asking all the drummers to provide documentation, to present me with allegations. My dialogue table is always open, and my hand is set to improve the production of the mussel as well. I've made many offers: the possibility of having the cheekbone open all year long, the possibility of increasing the number of collecting strings in the bats that can be used to capture more seed, increase the number of collecting strings, increase in the squares that are vacant collector strings so that you can get that increase of seed. And don't blame me for not getting MSC certification. What they said was that we have to believe that the exploitation of the mussel is sustainable, and on that line we're working on. And on that line I'm going to keep working because I'm perfectly convinced that the exploitation of the mussel is compatible with the rational exploitation of resources and it's a sustainable exploitation. But we have to believe it in front of those certification entities so they can give us that quality creto. My hand is stretched out, nothing's closed. I offer myself to dialogue and that's why I'm waiting for the battery sector and the different associations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u235	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u236	... submit the allegations they consider appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u237	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, we have a concept other than dialogue, because there is no regulation to be submitted to you to make any claims as to whether it is legally settled. Dialogue is a question of attitude, not of final outcome. Don't worry about the allegations. There will be. They buy big boxes because there's gonna be a lot of them. Get the boxes! If it's okay! There will be allegations. But then nothing is solved. You talk about dialogue, you make proposals. Look, a proposal that has no other solution is not a proposal, it's an imposition. And it's such a clear imposition that — let me not value it myself — I'll give you two data. There is a letter from Mexican Galicia that says: "Today we watch with concern the changes that are being proposed in the management of the mussel; changes that, if carried out, would seriously condition the viability of the sector"—Mexillion of Galicia—. You might think this is things that need not be taken into account. These were statements, but I'm going to give you a fact: it's the first time in history that all the Mexillon Bureau members leave you. If you think you're talking and you've all been released for the first time in history, maybe you have to change the concept of dialogue, Counselor. Maybe you need to change the concept of dialogue. Because, look, you defend, "No, we allow them a little percent..." It's not just about how much they allow them to cost, because they can't give them shore spaces where there's no cheek — ports, beaches... Or do you go to the Lance and see your cheeks thrown in the sand? I don't think so. You have to work so that you can extract where you can extract, where there is. Because the product is where it is. By the way, I'm going back to the beginning, it's not that there's a problem now because each other is responsible. They've been living together for sixty years until this regulation has come.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u240	Mr. Torado, look, I'm not going to let you say nonsense. From here I can assure you that, if you check the plans, on that 83% of the coast to which I mean no beach is contemplated, there are areas where there is a cheek. [[Murmurs.]] Do the favor and check the plans. I'm not crazy. I don't do things to do. All that's done is done with a series of biological reports. You can see if some of the areas can be reduced or increased. We are open to that possibility, we are open to being justified by the need and dependence of certain areas to catch a mussel. Nothing's closed. The only thing you can't do is say one thing in Salnes, say another in Baiona or say another on the Death Coast. This government and this advisor will never make partisan politics with the fishing sector. We defend the interests of absolutely all sectors, because they all have to live together. And, Mr. Torrado, at least you're going to teach us lessons that you're working for by-farming. I'm going to remind you that when we got to the government in 2009, you were going to take out all the drummer concessions, and we put the counters to zero. And we, although we haven't even come to appreciate the possibility of making the Aquaculture Law, at the first opportunity we had in the Accompanying Law we made an amendment so that the concessions would become a maximum of fifty years, not of thirty, as they had before. We worked so that, instead of building a sports port on the island, the shipowners had a port where they could dock their boats. We're also working to get 75% of the aid from aquaculture to go to the battery sector, so I'm not going to get any lesson from you about defending the battery sector. I'll defend the battery sector. [[Applause]] We must do things strictly. And in that line, what I'm telling the drummer sector is that I feel very good, very democratic, to make a demonstration, of course, but that, in addition to making the demonstration, I ask them to give us arguments, to present allegations, to study. And that we are going to look with biologists to make the best possible and sustainable exploitation, both for the coastal sector and for the specific resource sector, which is also an important sector for Galicia. I will always defend the same position in Salnès, Baiona, Guarda, Costa da Morte or where necessary, because my interests are to defend all and each of the people who work in any of the subsectors of fishing, seafood or aquaculture. So, on that line, all I ask of the sector is to come and meet with me. I just sent them a summons. On Wednesday, as soon as I arrive from Brussels, I will sit with them the hours that are needed, because it is necessary to achieve a harmonious exploitation of all resources without harming each other. And the truth is that — you know it well — we've been convening meetings for a year so that we can all agree on the best possible exploitation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-10-DSPG061.u241	Thank you very much, Counselor. End of business, we're taking the meeting.
