ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. There was no justification for inattentiveness and, therefore, we are already on the agenda, the first point is that of legislating texts. Debates and takes account of the Proposal for a Law, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, an organic to present before the Congress of Deputies, supplementary transfers to Galicia in the area of traffic, vehicle traffic and road safety.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u2	For the introduction of the bill, Mr Bará has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u3	Good morning. We are bringing back to this Parliament the proposal for a law on the transfer of traffic, road traffic and safety powers. And to understand this proposal and this debate, we have to make some history, which more than history we can say is a memorial of aggravation. A long story that should shame some groups for their acts, for their votes in the past; and a story in which we have to speak first of the twelve years of self-government paralysis during the presidency of Nuñez Fexóo. And, in fact, it wasn't twelve years of paralysis; in practice it was twelve years of stagnation and backwardness. Because Galicia has lost positions in these twelve years while other communities, while other nations have advanced by expanding self-government, and we have many examples that demonstrate this. And besides, it's not only been twelve years of retrogression, it's also been twelve years of recentralization in many areas, both in the previous and the present crisis, because we know at this point, we know it from now on, so that we try to use the crises. They're trying to use to concentrate wealth more and to centralize decision-making more. And it has also been twelve years of non-compliance, of non-compliances in the first place with parliamentary agreements taken in this House. The first of these is the agreement of the 70 powers of the year 2006, a unanimous agreement of the three political forces present today in this plenary session, which has been boycotted systematically by governments -- it must be said -- the Socialist Party and the People's Party. Failure also to comply with the election promises of the People's Party. And I want to remind you that in 2009 you presented yourself to the elections promising that they would manage transfers such as that of public maritime-terrestrial domain, ports of general interest, airports, highways, nautical-fishing titrations, meteorology or watersheds. And you have already come to breach the agreements adopted at the Council of the Union, such as that agreement of 8 October 2009 -- and you, Mr. Rueda, have addressed me to you -- because you took a report there to manage 17 competencies that were left behind. You left them on the way. And I remind you, in addition, that already at the height of his hypocrisy Mr. Faixóo introduced himself after that Board of Trustees, I remind him on 8 October 2009, saying that bubbling phrase that has already remained for history. As well as that of Ence in Pontevedra: "We will start the greatest self-government phase of Galician history." Those were to be recorded, so they were engraved on the walls of the Union. "We will begin the greater self-government phase of Galicia's history." You sent a letter at that time to the vice president of the Central Government and you didn't know any more. They did, didn't they? They put their heads down and they said, "Yes, baboon" and "if I've seen you, I don't remember." Why, what happened after that year 2009? What is the balance of Mr. Fexóo's governments? The government is zero, zero potato. That's the balance, nothing, the empty, the desert, the political irrelevance. Instead of competences, we would have to speak here of incompetence, of the incompetence of the People's Party's Government of the People's Party chaired by Mr. Fexóo and Vice-President of Mr. Rueda, who is responsible in addition to this matter. [[Applause]] We'll have a chance tomorrow at the interpellation of talking with a greater extent and in more detail about this whole process, but the reality is that it's the worst stage in the history of autonomy, which has never happened before, of four legislatures without any transfer. Nothing like this has ever happened. And that's in his own place. It's a real shame because you've also had a Government in Madrid this time presided over by Mr. Rajoy and in that six-year term there were 16 transfers to seven communities, and Galicia zero, zero balance. Do you know how many communities between 2008 and 2021 received no transfers? Only two, the ones in the tail positions, the ones that are closing in on this classification. I think they're in preferred region for you. I'm Murcia and Galicia. Murcia and Galicia, the only two communities that have not received any transfer in this period. The reality is that the People's Party has done a gigantic exercise of cynicism and hypocrisy by voting here in this Parliament for transfers and then vetoing them in Madrid. And we have the example that's close to AP-9. As you have been reluctant to vote in favour of this Parliament three times and systematically veto the admission of this initiative in the State Parliament three times with the negative reports of Mr Rajoy's Government and the veto of Mrs Pastor, President of the House. That's your balance, your existence. But you must recognize that since 2019 you have removed the mask and discovered the real face of the People's Party, the most centralist face, the oldest, the oldest, the most pro-Wally face of the People's Party. [[Applause]] We thank them for not concealing and the truth is that in 2019 you have made public vows of obedience to Madrid without any dissimulation and produced that genuinely bochurnous spectacle, a true black page in the history of the Self-Government and the Government of Galician Union, which the President of the Union has suspended his institutional agenda in the United States to come to an ultra-right demonstration in the Colon Square, because he called it the chapter of the president of the People's Party, Mr. Casado. And this can't be agreed, we're going to report it as often as we need it. The institutional agenda of the Presidency of the Union cannot be suspended by a call to the Churubío of the President of the People's Party. And we've seen what happened after. Who sows winds collects storms. And if there were any doubts about this, you made it clear in the election program of 2019. Put it in writing, it's there. Say: "We will approve a moratorium which will paralyze the transfer of competences to the autonomous communities. Moratoria, paralysing competences to autonomous communities." This is the current program of this legislation of the People's Party in the State. That you also subscribe, because you're the People's Party. They embraced the agenda further, the Madrid agenda, the Madrid agenda, and the Galician agenda. And the People's Party of Galicia is the People's Party of Madrid, they are the same thing, you defend the interests of Madrid, which is the great aspirator of our resources, of our wealth, of our savings, of our rights, of our energy, of our taxes and of the state's investments. At this point, you have an opportunity to rectify and we want to present to you, give you an opportunity to rectify this proposed law for the transfer of traffic, which, as we know, is a competition which the Constitution confers on the State and which can only be transferred through this procedure provided for in Article 150 of the Constitution, by means of a proposal for organic law adopted in Congress. And that's why we bring this proposal here. A proposal which, as I said at the outset, has a long history behind it, because this same proposal, exactly the same one, repeating every word and every comma, has already been adopted by this Parliament on 8 April 2008, with the votes in favour of the three parties present here in this House. What happened after this unanimous support for the procedure and the vote in this Parliament? That she was taken two years later to Congress in Madrid and we saw what happened. And it turns out that this initiative on behalf of this Parliament was defended by Mr. Quintana for the BNG, Mr. Leicega for the Socialist Party and Mr. Puy -- who is not here today -- for the People's Party. And what have these parties voted for this initiative here? The Socialist Party voted against; the People's Party abstained, but that abstention put down this initiative, so the Socialist Party and the People's Party are responsible for not succeeding, because if the People's Party voted in favour, as it put in its electoral programme, the transfer of traffic, this proposal would go ahead. And that's why he went down. And who voted the same here and in Madrid? For who voted the same thing was the BNG, as always, who voted the same thing in Galicia and Madrid. He doesn't betray the interests of this country. [[Applause]] And, in any case, this story serves to learn what the function is, how important it is that it has its own political forces that defend the Greek interests in Madrid, and not those that sell to its Madrid leadership, as we have seen systematically over these years. It's not necessary because it's still known to explain what the content of this bill, which is very simple, very synthetic, has only three articles. But I think it's important to explain what their values and their functions are, which I would summarize, on the one hand, in the practical functions, because we're talking about a very sensitive area and we're talking about that Galicia has a singularity, has a differential fact about this matter too; because we have a different reality in the road network; we have a different reality also in territorial dispersion and population; we have different realities in the climate and the orography that also influence the movement of vehicles; in the mobile park, which is the oldest in the state. And we also have a number of elements that explain the continuing high inequality in Galicia at this point, which is above the state average, and we have here the data of 2020, which is a typical year, which has been, are very worrying data. And besides this initiative also has symbolic values that are very important because it's a key piece, it wouldn't be necessary, but it's a key piece for the creation of a true integral Welsh police. By the way, there is also a law passed by this Parliament in 2007 which was boycotted by the People's Party's Union Government that is waiting for its compliance. And it could be created just like the Welsh police and not that successor that you created of the UPA, of the Undersigned Police Unit, which is not a Welsh police force itself. Well, with this transfer it could be developed in all its fullness the integral Welsh police and, therefore, we would also be talking about a full match in this matter of Galicia with Euskadi, with Catalonia or also with Nafarroa. That's why this high symbolic value that this transfer has, because we know that the police are one of the fundamental instruments for the self-government of a country. Finally, I conclude by saying that in the past legislative process, this same proposal that BNG had originally submitted in 2008, which was admitted to the proceedings with the abstention of the People's Party. They pressed the yellow button, they didn't give them any nerves, they pressed the yellow button, they let it go, but then they let it decay because they didn't allow the processing to be completed and it ended up falling down when the legislation was over. Now we are at a different moment, we believe that we are at a more favourable moment, more favourable to the events that have occurred in the state by the investment agreement signed by the BNG, which has set a path, let's say that you opened the door to convene this Joint Transfer Commission and open that negotiation. There have also been agreements in the Congress of Members, there have already been agreements in this Parliament recently to process, defend and demand a number of competences, including those related to the back, the coast, also the oceanographic research centres, also the scholarships. Finally, there are many agreements on this issue and we think it is time to take this step, to take as a starting point the document of the 70 powers of the year 2006. And now the People's Party has a test ahead, it has to decide which side it's on; it has to decide whether it's on the German side or again on the side of Madrid. And this is an important moment, it's a great opportunity to take a step in self-government, we've already told you that it does not fill our aspirations that go much further, but, in any case, it opens the way for further progress, for more achievements, to assume more competences, to have more self-government, that is to have more well-being and have more country. We didn't close the doors, we opened them up with this admission agreement for a fairer country, a freer country, for a better country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u4	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this House is the highest representation of democracy in Galicia and that is why I must begin by expressing the firmest rejection of Baltar and Feijóo's anti-democratic attempt to silence and expel Jacome from politics who was the most voted candidate in the municipalities of Ourense, Rafa Villarino. [[Applause]] And I have to say that what's going on in Ourense is part of a dangerous fascist broth, it's more of a sample than Vox is in Galician PP. You don't have any kind of legitimacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u6	Mr. Orange, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u7	...to ask an unpopular politician like Rafa Villarino, who has also won the elections, to silence his voice and withdraw from politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u8	Mr. Orange, on the matter, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u9	Getting into the field, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bará, we do not accept any kind of lessons from the Greek nationalism in this matter, insofar as we ourselves, on February 26, 2019, the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, presented in this House a proposal for a transfer law to Galicia in the area of traffic and traffic and road safety. A proposal that has been admitted to the proceedings, but which has declined and has not finally benefited from the change of legislation. In that sense, the debate we are starting or doing here today has already been held two years and two months ago at the PSdeG's instance and initiative, so there will be anyone who thinks we could save this debate, but the case is that the world has certainly changed substantially in these two years and two months. And in any case, we understand that it is still appropriate to debate about Galician self-government and that this proposal made by BNG today, as we did two years ago, is still relevant. First of all, because it contributes to the proximity of Galicia's powers to those of Catalonia and Basque Country, a condition which generally seems positive to us. But besides, because it can be useful for citizenship, as I will have the opportunity to expand. That is, it not only satisfies the general condition of getting closer to communities with a higher level of self-government, but in this particular case it is positive to bring this competition to the territory in order to try to develop our public policies in this area more effectively. We know that Galicia traditionally maintains a road sinisterity higher than the state average, which has come down in recent times too, and I refer especially to before the pandemic, because obviously 2020 is not a standard year or it can serve as a representation of this reality. But the fact is that in Galicia, sinequality continues to be comparatively higher than the state average for different reasons. We have a very scattered population, with half of Spain's population nuclei around, when we don't reach 6% of the population, which affects many aspects. For example, the spread of the virus by providing Galicia with an advantage compared to stopping the spread, but it also involves a large number of secondary roads that generate daily displacements for labor or leisure reasons, or doctors, or any other type of road. On roads that are normally and statistically less safe than other main roads, or let's not say that highways. Besides that public transport is insufficient and tends to be less, because we already know that the rural legislation that Mr. Feijóo promised remained on more than so many unmet promises. And rural is still seeing how their services go back, including public transport, which strengthens the movement through these secondary roads, which favors the fallacy. Besides, we have as we know, an aging population, with the worst demographic data in Spain, which means that more and more older people are living alone and moving alone, which also contributes to more displacement. We also have a mobile park that's a little older than the state average, which also causes more accidents because it correlates with sinisterity. And we have a country with a very complicated geography, as we know, full of ups and downs and half mountain, as was the case of that Lugo-A-A-Fonsgrad road which had 65 kilometers 365 curves, which gave you the most erotic road title of Galicia, an erotic that I think is going to mitigate with time, but which is inherent to Galicia's orography. A country with variable weather that doesn't help to reduce sinisterity either. All these factors are hardly changeable and will not be altered by transfer, although some may think, but they can be taken into account in a more effective way if traffic and road safety policies approach the territory. And this would be important because every life on the roads is a life that is absurdly lost and lost when that loss could be avoided. And our particular youth has one of the main causes of death in traffic accidents. In 2019 Galicia had 127 dead on the road, in front of 159 Madrid, 65 Basque Country or 304 Catalonia. Galicia with 47 deaths per million inhabitants, Madrid 23.9 deaths per million, 30 deaths per million in the Basque Country, Asturias 31 deaths per million, to put just four examples. Trying to reduce that distance with regard to the state average by adapting our public policies in this matter is not an ideological matter, but an eminently practical one, and it seems also a perfectly legitimate goal beyond the consideration that Catalonia and Basque Country have been managing this competition for about three decades. He said two years ago Xaquín Fernández Leiceaga in the debate of this same bill that, as I say, has already been discussed two years and two months ago, promoted by the PSdEG, that the autonomic model moved between two dangers: the School of Centralism and the Caribdis of independence. In that sense, we bet on moving forward in the autonomic model, a model that we claim, while we believe in its perfection, because any system is likely to be perfected. And federalism, in which we also believe, is not something static, but dynamic, and we believe in federalism, and we believe that there is no need for problems because it advances in the transfer of competences, as we will later have an opportunity to defend in this very plenary as we present a non-legislative proposal for the transfer of 30 competences to Galicia, obviously a much more ambitious approach than we are currently involved in. After twelve years of Mr. Feijóo's government, in which there was not a single new transfer to Galicia, the PSdEG proposes to move forward not on the path of the independent delirium which leads not to anything but to reform, to continuous progress, to the adaptation of a statute that dates back to 1981 and reflects a world that has changed greatly. We propose that each state instance do what best it can do, and we consider that traffic management and road safety in Galicia can do better in Galicia, and that is why we are going to support this proposal, by federalist conviction, by coherence with our own position two years ago, and already in 2008, and because we believe that in the face of paralysis and immobility we must try to move forward in all areas. Also rejecting the fascist broth of cultivation, which forms part of the anti-democratic performances of Baltar and Feijóo in Ourense. Faced with the blackmail of Feijóo and Baltar, democracy. Rectify now, Mr. Feijó. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u10	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me respond to Mr. Bará and Mr. Aranguena Smith's speeches, which I have to admit to you that no one has done more than you by promoting Vox in this House, absolutely no one. That's a merit that no one can argue with you anymore. But, of course, saying that the request to separate a public office from a given responsibility is fascism, finally, for you to make an important expuration in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Among other things, it was you who asked Mr. Baltar to withdraw. But how can you have such a tough face! Honestly. Look, let's talk about serious things, or at least try, right? Because after hearing what I heard, I think we have to make a couple of statements. The first: having completed 40 years of the approval of the Statute, I think we can affirm roundly that Galicia has reached the highest rates of self-government in its history. And, as there seems to be doubts, I want to make a second statement, with the same roundness: I say that this conquest of the self-government of Galicia would never have been achieved without the fundamental contest of the organization which has always been worthy of the majority confidence of the Greeks and the Greeks, the People's Party of Galicia. That's indisputable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Look, when you talk about commitment measured in transfers, I think you have to make some accounts. President Albor: around 75 transfers, some like teaching, fishing, agriculture, roads, the creation of CRTVG. President Fraga: 52 transfers, some as important as health, when we assume the competences of Health. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. My question is, was President Touriño less autonomous than President Fraga? Or was Fraga less autonomist than Albor or that González Laxe? We simply believe that no, that each of them is the son of his own time and the reality that touched him to live. And it seems quite obvious, it seems quite evident that the more developed our self-government, the less margin exists for new transfers. And, of course, Galicia is the third most transferable community, the third of all that make up that country called Spain. According to Professor Santiago Lago in his book presentation last week, one of the five most decentralized countries in the world, one of the five most decentralized countries in the world. The commitment to self-government, ladies and gentlemen, is not measured by the number of competences transferred, but by the firmness shown in the defence of Galician interests and institutions, because no transfer process, and I believe that in this we will agree, can be infinite or unlimited, but the defence of self-government has no more limit than commitment to Galicia. And in the defence of autonomy, President Feijóo's government always showed that his priority was Galicia, above all words, above parties, above all interests. When with a Government of the People's Party the CORA report recommended the elimination of statutory organs, the Government of Feijóo has reinforced them, and we have given it powers in the area of the prevention of corruption to the Board of Auditors, we have established the possibility of consultations with local authorities in the Consultative Council, and we have almost turned it into a household organ of the local authorities in Greece, and the People's Valedor has assigned it to control the transparency of public administrations. When in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis on the left and nationalists recommended that we give up autonomy in exchange for obtaining a credit from the State to low types of interest, we chose that Galicia be the owner of its decisions while other communities were intervened by the State. Five years have passed by some community intervened, like Catalan, and very recently that financial intervention has been lifted. When historical institutions of Galician civil law are challenged and the successor pacts are eliminated, it was this party that defended the normative capacities that would recognize us in the Spanish Statute and Constitution. When the Galician Parliament adopted an essential health standard to manage the pandemic and the post-pandamy which has been denied us by the state despite compromising its approval, it was this party that decided to defend the health of the Greeks and the regulatory capacity of this House. And we do not deny the Government's ability to act on its prerogatives, but it seems to me that it is no way of doing so by failing to do so in this regard and without prior dialogue and without any previous conversation with the legitimate representatives of Galicia. And who defended him was the People's Party of Galicia. When a call from the Conference of Presidents is requested to address this uncertain post-pandemic which we have at the moment once the alarming State is closed on May 9, we are defending it is self-government, co-government, the participation of Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities in the decisions to be taken in the State. But, of course, we co-governance understand that this is the capacity of self-governance taken into account by a government that coordinates us all. Others understand that co-governance is kind of a ridiculer behind what to hide when things get tough. Who's defending the Welsh industry when he's punished? Who's defending Galicia when we get discriminated against on a budget basis? Who's the one who raises the voice? Because, ladies and gentlemen, today, this morning, we know the Supreme Court ruling that fails in favour of the Castilla and León Board, and condemns the state to pay this community 182 million of the liquidation of the 2017 VAT. I hope that sooner or later there will be a decision in that direction in favour of this autonomous community. Who raised the voice to defend it? And who shut up? And who hasn't been by this party to defend Galician interests? Because I have to say it, ladies and gentlemen, on every occasion, on every occasion when the legitimate rights of the Greeks and the Greeks were questioned, this Government always gave the same answer: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia and ever more Galicia. That's what PPdEG always said! [[Applause]] Mr. Bará, Mr. Bará, you used to say "more Galicia or more Madrid"; we're always Galician. Those who share a parliamentary group with More Madrid, those are you, you'll know who their bandmates are. You'll know who they're sitting with! [[Laughter]] Of course, each one chooses his friends, those of More Madrid, that's part of his group of friends. Then everyone will know where he is. The reality, reality, gentlemen -- don't get nervous -- is, in a context of strong territorial tensions that we've been living in the last decade, this party defended the majority ideals that defend the Greeks. And that's how it is. Ideals that are very far away from recentralizing temptations -- that there were -- and independentist deviations -- that there are still -- and when these tensions occurred, we said: more Spanish Constitution, more Statute, more State of autonomy. When the context changed and placed us in a pandemic, we chose to defend the interests of the royal Galician, the royal Galician, not the invented Galician that others come to tell us here. We have chosen more health, more social protection and more economic impulse, because these are the priorities of the Greeks and the Greeks right now: health, social protection and economic impulse. But let's be clear, we're not going to be an obstacle to claiming a competition, in this case that of trafficking, which we believe this community is perfectly prepared to assume. The same way we didn't stop him during the past legislation, even if it didn't come true. We didn't stop him in 2010, because whoever listened to you, Mr Bará, seems to have the responsibility of not approving Congress this was who it turned out to be abstinent, and we have to know the intrahistories, to know why he abstained and who asked him to abstain. In any case, those who voted against, who have directly attacked, according to you, the competences of Galicia and its self-government are the same party that you agree and govern in every and every institution in which they have opportunity. Man, a little decorum, I'm telling you too. I, at any rate, have to tell you that Galicia is not going to give up the greater shares of self-government and exercise it, from loyalty to institutions, to Greeks and to Spaniards. And I hope that from now on we will find the loyal attitude that has been lacking, for example, during the investment when it has not hesitated to trade between parties what they should only and could agree to institutions. Because, Mr Bará, you come here today, if you'll excuse me, you said you opened the way to the BNG. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have here the PSOE-BNG deal, the PSOE-BNG deal, I don't know if you remember the first point. You want to know? Can I tell you? - I read it in Spanish because it was like that, uh --. "Strengthening the capacity for decision-making of the Galician self-government through a proposal to convene the Joint Committee on State-Unit Transfers of Galicia. First quarter of 2020." I don't know if the vice president got any calls. I don't know if I had to call Mrs. Llastra or Mrs. Pontón. I don't know if you have any information about this, I don't know what pantomime comes into your hands when you come here saying that you've opened up... in a paper that leaves black on white that you've been tricked into, they've got their hair and they've done it the same as those who rule in every and every one of the institutions in which they have a chance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u13	...so, Mr Bará, Mr Bará, I already warn you and I already announce that we will always be next to whoever asks for more self-government to Galicia while doing so in a sensible manner, and I am convinced or at least hope that we will receive the loyalty that we have not received so far, and that the same ones who have taken hair in a fragrance way to the BNG do not intend to take the hair now to the legitimate representatives of all the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, author group of the bill, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u15	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Aranguena, I explained it to you in the previous intervention, but you didn't want to listen, so you can see. You guys have a problem with selective memory. You stayed in 2019, but I've already told you that, if we're debating this here, it's not what happened in 2019, that's why it happened in 2010 when you saw the approval of this bill in the Central Parliament. [[Applause]] We could have spent 10 years with this transfer if the Socialist Party, which I suppose is its party, did not veto it in Madrid. It's just that history hasn't started since 2019, it starts to begin to count before, all the background that has this bill, because what you presented in 2019 is letter by letter, word by word as in 2008 that BNG had presented. What are we talking about! What are we talking about! Look, Mr Pazos, the problem is that for you the Statute is a roof and for the BNG it is a floor; for you it is a point of arrival and for us in any case it is a starting point. And you say that thanks to the 1981 Statute, we enjoy the highest level of self-government in all history. And you know why that is? Do you know why that is? That's because in 1936 there was a coup d'état that annihilated the most important, grander generation in the history of this country, and that coup d'état, which we already know who gave it, prevented the processing and development of the Statute and self-government, and that's why there was 40 years of terrorist dictatorship in this country. [[Applause]] And the BNG picks up that seed, because as Castelao said they didn't bury corpses, they buried seeds, and we kept defending those ideals. And that is why we also tell you here in this Parliament, because there are several members of the Government, who are already acting to avoid a new looting in Meirás. You can't let the Francos steal back what is public heritage, and they have instruments. The Galician Union of course, the state too, but the Galician Union of competences in historical heritage and because you will be a BIC, to prevent this looting. Because the BIC protects the whole set, not just the stones, not just the buildings. And, look, of course, we have differences in the Statute, there is no need to reopen this debate, but in any case the BNG does not renounce its legitimate aspirations. That Statute is not enough for us, which has been made like a suit since it was small in 1981. Because they've changed a lot, because there's a majority of this country that couldn't participate or vote in that Statute, more than 1.5 million people couldn't vote that Statute. And because there are also rights that we must exercise, which we can exercise because they are rights that people have and are rights that are collected in international treaties, and we are not going to renounce them. But now we're talking about taking concrete steps, taking steps forward, improving, expanding self-government, reaching the competitive ceiling, matching Catalonia and Euskadi, which is exactly what the agreement we made here on January 23, 2019, which you then disavowed from it, so that Galicia would achieve all the competences that had already taken on other territories, other communities, and also the Government agreement, Mr Pazos. Indeed, progress in strengthening the capacity for decision-making of the Italian self-government by proposing the convening of the Joint Commission on United States Transfers of Galicia in the first quarter of 2020. In fact, there was a pandemic, I don't have to explain to you, to schedule during this legislation -- that's important and you haven't read it -- the activation of the transfer of all the pending competences collected in the Galician Autonomy Statute, as well as the competences that were the subject of consensus in the Greek Parliament. This is the deal. This is the deal. And, if you like, we have to call the Joint Commission, but why are you in the Government? [[Murmurs.]] You ask for the summons You may have asked for it a long time ago, you have been asked for it now, the other day, the other day, you have been asked for it now, after twelve years, Mr. Rueda, who have been ruling for twelve years and have not asked for it, have not asked for any competition. [[Applause]] So... yes, you, yes, they didn't ask for it. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, defend here... they're telling me what a face, and face, hard face have others. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u16	We do not enter into improper exchanges of Parliament. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u17	That's the way it is, you didn't ask for a summons. We put it in the tray, we centred the ball on them, they were already in front of the door, they just had to finish and they're not able to. What do you want? What do we call them? What do we go? If they can't rule, let's go, we rule, but not like that. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, now you've taken the lead of Navarre, you're already negotiating the transfer of traffic, you've got your own police. [[Nafarroa]] And we don't have it because you and the Socialist Party agreed at your time to ban this transfer in 2010. But we think that now there are new circumstances, which is the moment of Galicia. We hope that today's agreement will be the starting point for real progress, for that competitive ceiling, and for continuing, from then on, for Galicia to have everything it deserves as a nation that is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u18	Thank you, Mr Bará. We are voting on the proposal for an organic law, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, before the Congress of Deputies, from supplementary transfers to Galicia in the area of traffic, vehicle traffic and road safety. Voting of taking into consideration the proposal for organic law Voting of the proposal for an organic law, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, before the Congress of Deputies, from supplementary transfers to Galicia in the area of traffic, vehicle traffic and road safety. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; abstentions, 40. The result of the vote is positive, which is why it is taken into account and will continue its parliamentary process. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u19	And now I'm going to read them an institutional statement that brings me to the groups, which reached an agreement yesterday afternoon, and which says the following -- it's about the death of Diego Bello, a corrupt citizen in the Philippines -- : "Last January 8, 2020, young man Diego Bello Lafuente died on the Philippine island of Siargao because of the shooting that took place against the members of the Philippine National Police, the security body of the Republic of the Philippines. Diego had been living in Siargao for two years, a time when he began a business experience that began with a backpacker pension and continued with the opening of a clothing shop and later a Spanish food restaurant, all of them businesses assembled by Diego in association with Filipino citizens, as required by law in that country, and also with several Spanish partners. According to the official version of the Philippine Police, Diego was one of the biggest drug traffickers in the region, and the police killed him after trying to stop him in front of his house at 1 a.m. when he was back in business. The police wanted to stop him after the peasant agents tried to buy him a small amount of drugs. According to the police version, Diego drew a gun when he realized that they were cops and the police were forced to defend themselves, ending up with Diego's life. This police account is the only information that has come to know about the incident, since no court has intervened in the operation, nor was there any administrative record that lacks faith in the police claim. The Spanish Government asked the Philippines to investigate the circumstances and information given by the Chief of Police who authorized the operation, but after more than a year, the Philippine Government continued to refuse to carry out such an investigation even though it had agreed at first to carry out the searches from both judicial and governmental bodies. The only body that carried out a report on Diego's death was the Human Rights Commission of the Philippines, a constitutional body in the Philippines, that in August last year and then to travel to the scene of the facts and interview police, witnesses and partners and workers of Diego, concludes that Diego's death by the police was a murder and that the excuse for the self-defence that the police claims is delegitimized by the results of the autopsies practiced by Diego both in Manila and in Madrid, and by the graphic evidence and the testimony of the witnesses, also highlighting that the police were unable to present a single proof of Diego's relationship with drug trafficking. In November 2020 the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Congress of Members of Spain unanimously adopted a Non-Legal Proposal by all the participating groups asking the Spanish Government to request the Philippine authorities to carry out the investigations necessary to determine the success and to prevent the escape of perpetrators of Diego's death. To date, Spanish petitions have been ignored by the Philippine Government. A Government that has been denounced by both the UN and the European Union for having carried out more than 20,000 extrajudicial executions in the last five years on the pretext of the war on drugs and which is being used to eliminate both political enemies and human rights defenders in the Philippines. The plenary session of the Galician Parliament unanimously adopted the following institutional statement: 1. To express his rejection for the murder of Diego Bello and his solidarity and support for the family. 2. To ask the Government of the State to exercise as many political, diplomatic and judicial actions as are necessary to demand the full clarification of the facts surrounding Diego's death, and the purification up to the last consequences of how many responsibilities there have been and also the restoration of the right to honour Diego Bello. 3. To transfer this agreement to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Spain and also to the Embassy of the Philippines in Spain." Thank you very much. This is the statement. [[Applause]] [[Adopted by consent.]] We're still on the agenda. Point 2, it's appearances. Mr Advocate General F.G. Jacobs delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 13 February 2000.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u20	Wait, let's calm this down. [[Pause.]] To make this appearance, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today, on my own request, to inform the House of progress in the outcome of the 2020 closure of the expenditure caused by the pandemic in that exercise. At a time of pandemics where there are uncertainties, I think it's good to report on it and its budgetary impact in a responsible exercise of our management as a Government for the utility of citizenship. And the first thing we have to consider is that the year 2020 was an exceptional year, precisely because of the pandemic, which forced us to take exceptional budgetary measures. I'll explain first of all how we react from the budgetary point of view in order to deal with such an exceptional situation and then how we close the exercise. Ladies and gentlemen, as the German Government from the very first moment we had made it clear that priority would be threefold: health, economic and social. Obviously, the first priority was health, but within our possibilities we wanted to react budgetily to the economic and social needs of the pandemic as well. What was the first thing we did from the budgetary point of view? You will remember -- because I had the opportunity to comment on it in this same plenary one year ago -- that immediately, when we had the health emergency, in March, we approved a treasury plan, endowed with 1,800 million euros, to provide liquidity in order to help the Greek families and companies at a time when they suffered an abrupt drop in their income. That's why we set up a specific plan to provide cash to Treasury to speed up bill payments to all suppliers working with the Welsh Administration. The priority was to ensure payments for extraordinary operating costs and arising from the actions against cod. In this liquidity plan, as Administration we want to set an example and for this we propose a very ambitious goal, immediately reduce the average payment time around 15 days, and we achieve it, as by March 2020 the average payment time to suppliers has been reduced to 14.5 days. And, as we'll see later, we've kept Galicia in the head of agility in payment all year round. We also immediately decided to suspend the deadlines for the self-liquidation of property transmission taxes and documented legal acts, succession taxes and prayers, and the taxation of the game. We think with such an extraordinary drop of income, as we had the responsibility -- I would say to the obligation -- to provide the citizen with facilities to meet his obligations, and we chose to defer the tax payments. At first we held this suspension until June 30; and then we decided to extend it until November 1st. I think it was a necessary measure and it was well received by the taxpayers, as I will also detail. In addition, we have created a cover fund with own funds in order to be able to finance the first additional expenses linked to the pandemic in the Galician Health Service and social services. How do we act budgetly to get this yellow copper fund? Reprogramming expenditure for EUR 100 million from sections II and IV of the current budget for the lowest expenditure incurred in certain sections due to the health crisis. We also reactivated immediately, already in the first week of April, the works being carried out suspended by the first state of alarm, considering as essential more than 100 works in the tendering process, in addition to giving continuity to the procedures for contracting services and subsidies previously convened. Ladies and gentlemen, once you have responded with agility and put on the necessary budgetary measures, we are working on a broader plan of reactivation and dynamisation and on the line recommended by the Committee of Economic Experts, to whom I would like to thank your work again. This plan allowed more than 3,000 million euros to be mobilized. Of them, more than 1,700 million were public resources and something more than 1,300, resource mobilization, especially private. Who guided the design of all these immediate actions? Close liquidity, pay agilely, create a specific fund, reactivate economic activity, suspend tax deadlines or approve the mobilisation plan of these EUR 3,000 million. All these measures had a common link, the strong decision of the Government of Greece at all times to take on the expenditure needed to respond to three priorities: fighting the pandemic, meeting the needs of families and pemes, and re-enacting the economy as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, to this day a brief summary of the main budgetary measures that we had to take in an agile and coordinated manner to face an exceptional exercise. Let us now see what was the result of this budgetary policy in the closure of the exercise and what expenditure caused the pandemic. Once the budget year 2020 was closed, the main conclusion is that the extraordinary expenditure of the Galician Union due to the pandemic was EUR 629 million. A very important expense for the autonomous administration, because the German Government had to make an additional effort of 90 million euros. An additional effort that had to be made ultimately all the Greeks and all the Greeks, because we had to spend 90 million euros over the resources received. And we had to make this extra effort because, as soon as I hope to be able to expose, the resources that the central government distributed were insufficient for the expenses we had to face. Since then Galicia has unfortunately been penalized in most divisions. By focusing on the EUR 629 million of expenditure that originated the pandemic in 2020, most of which, in particular, EUR 270.3 million, we gave them health care. An amount that's also very important, 111.8 million euros, education. Other EUR 70.2 million to social policies and EUR 53.7 million to employment. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia made an exceptional effort in an extraordinary year. And since the German Government we have done everything possible to ensure that this collective effort, with our stability and exercising our self-government, had the greatest benefits for citizens. And what was the result? That Galicia in an exceptional year kept its usual strengths. Let's go one at a time. A very important point, because it was an exceptional year in which there were many needs and, therefore, many expenses to be able to attend them, was that we could maintain the highest quality expenditure and, above all, in creating wealth, that is, investment. Galicia in 2020 led the investor effort throughout Spain; we therefore lead the spending that creates wealth. We went to the community with greater investment in total non-financial expenditure, with 13.5%, almost twice as much as the average, which was at 7.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been among the first communities in investment effort for many years, but in a year as complicated as last Galicia managed to get to Spain's head. We invested something more than 1,400 million euros, 18% more than the previous year, and 655 million euros more if we did it in the same percentage as the average of the autonomous communities. Reiterate, leading the investor effort in the year of the pandemic is to generate wealth for companies and for the Greek families. Besides, as I said, not only did we invest as much as possible, but we paid as soon as possible. In fact, the Galician Union was also in 2020, one more year, Spain's most agile autonomic administration in payment to its suppliers. In 2020 Galicia paid an average of 18.7 days to its more than 14,800 suppliers. It's 16.8 days less than the average of Spain, or what's the same, Galicia paid half its bills in half the time that the whole of the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, paying agilely is always very important, but much more in a year as it was 2020, with many liquidity difficulties for companies. I think, by citing specific data, it's better understood. Last year, as I said, it was more than 14,800 providers who received payments from the Board. Of them, 4,956 were autonomous; 6,898, limited liability companies; 1,189, limited liability companies; 717, associations; 350 UTE; and 4 schools of pharmacists that group more than 1,300 offices. The amount paid has reached 3,380 million euros in a total of 606,827 invoices. What are these figures translated into? In which the Galician Union is the largest buyer of goods and services and, at the same time, Galician's largest customer. And since the German Government, we have a commitment to be the best customer among the Spanish administrations. And what's the best customer? What he pays before. Why is this so important? Because in this way we don't penalize families and businesses and, by paying them first, we allow them to keep working. Ladies and gentlemen, in such an exceptional year as 2020 since the Galician Summit we would like to strengthen the usefulness of having a budget in force since the first day of the year, because we are strengthening our useful policy. I have often talked about the importance of stability so that I can make decisions in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks and fully exercise our self-government. This stability is that it has allowed us, investing everything we can and paying before anyone else, to spend everything needed to control the deficit and the debt. Starting with the public deficit, I would like to point out that by 2020, when fiscal rules were suspended, Galicia closed the year with a deficit of 0.1 % of GDP. And the reason for presenting this budget result lies in the fact that the German Government chose to be responsible. We spent everything we needed to deal with the whole pandemic without giving up a euro available and that's why Galicia had no surplus, as if they had 8 autonomous communities. And at the same time, we control the deficit as if the tax rules are not suspended, because by controlling the deficit, we control the debt, which, we must not forget, generates the financial costs that must be returned. The most important thing is that, by maintaining a public deficit of 0.1%, Galicia closed 2020 with a debt differential of 7.2 % with respect to GDP, the maximum of the historical series according to the data published by the Banco de España. Galicia is the third autonomous community of common regime with lower indebtedness across Spain, 19.9 % of the debt ratio GDP, by 27.1 % of the autonomous average. The data from the Banco de España indicate that Galician debt is 3.8% of the total, obviously well below the percentage of GDP as well as population. In fact, Galicia is the autonomous community with a smaller increase in debt volume since 2008. And this translates into benefits for citizens, as each Welshman and every Welshman owes 2,160 euros less than the average citizen of the rest of autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Government we think debt is not the solution, because yesterday's solutions are the problems today, and today's solutions are the problems tomorrow, citing Peter Drucker. And that's why this responsible debt policy is very useful for the Greeks and the Greeks. And on this occasion with a plugin: the reduction of the debt ratio carried out in recent years places Galicia at a better financial position to respond to the economic demands derived from the negative effects of the coronavirus and, consequently, to be able to continue to combat the health effects of the pandemic, to promote economic reactivation and to meet the needs of both families, pemmes and autonomous. Before completing this balance sheet, I would also like to mention the results obtained by suspending the payment of autonomous taxes, which, as I said, was in force from March 14 to November 1, 2020. And I modestly reiterate that it was a good decision, because the figures show that 1 out of 5 contributors benefited from this deferral according to the data provided by the Tax Agency in Galicia. In particular, 43.125 families benefited. In addition, Atriga granted a total of 2,033 awards last year amounting to 12,9 million euros. Together with the facilities to pay taxes up to 2020 more than 580,000 Greek families have benefited from tax reductions applied by this Government since 2016. In addition, we wanted, to the extent that we allowed the pandemic to do so, to provide the best service to citizens and, once the confinement of last spring was lifted, from Atriga we made an effort to be able also to receive present and with all kinds of guarantees the people who needed it and demanded it. We've scheduled more than 54,000 presence dates from May 18 to December 31st. Compatible with this face-to-face effort is the increase in the activity year-to-year of the Virtual Office, as evidenced by the fact that the telematic payment of tax obligations is gaining weight. In 2020, 72,1 % of vehicle declarations were telematics, 40,2 % of transmission tax declarations; and, in the case of successions and prayers, 19,2 % and 14,7 % respectively, which, if they appear to be low percentages, almost multiply by 6 and 4 in relation to those held in the previous year. On the other hand, I want to highlight the collaboration and responsibility of citizens. 96% of the self-liquidations of succession tax and grants were correct, 93% of the self-liquidation of property transmission tax were correct; 98.1% of the Greeks and the Greeks correctly applied tax benefits. And the Atriga gave its compliance to 7 out of every 10 of the more than 592,000 ratings of property presented last year. The Greeks, therefore, are responsible and we fulfill our obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for Galicia that in the most difficult year in decades the autonomous community leads the investor effort, the payment to suppliers, controls the deficit and maintains the greatest differential in history in the debt-to-GDP ratio, while the payment of autonomous taxes was suspended until the first of November. We are therefore faced with a serious, solvent and rigorous budgetary exercise closure. I want to inform you that the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority, AIReF, has just done a study for the first time on budgetary transparency, which was made public last week, and that I want to show satisfaction at the fact that Galicia is leading it. This recognition is good news for Galicia. In this sense, he points out that Galicia presents the budget to legislative power two months before the start of the next exercise and approves and publishes before it starts. It also stresses that the timetable for the preparation and approval of the budget is clearly defined in budgetary legislation; the main content requirements are laid down; both the structure and the documentation attached to agents included therein are specified; and the powers of the legislative power are regulated in order to carry out budget amendments. Stability therefore favours good budgetary discipline. Another aspect that assesses AIREF is that budget projections are based on comprehensive macroeconomic prognoses, which are disseminated and explained. Furthermore, it emphasizes that one of the points that distinguishes Galicia from the other autonomous communities is the measurement of the results achieved in the budgeted targets, which allows us to obtain very valuable information to know the achievements. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very important time, in which we will still have to fight the pandemic, but in which we are also obliged to reactivate the economy and protect businesses and families. A key piece will be the resources coming from the European Union, which is an opportunity if the central government really counts on the autonomous communities and allows them to have equal access to them. So far, we're having everything but co-governance. The Government of Spain, which is responsible for the distribution of these resources, is acting as if the autonomous communities were a branch, subcontract or state-owned medium. In this sense, I regret that the Central Government has been harming Galicia for many months in the distribution of how many funds are authorized for the fight against the pandemic. Therefore, we would not like the Government of Spain to have had the same discretion as the allocation of funds from the National Plan of Recovery, Transition and Resilience that it has since the beginning of the pandemic. But unfortunately we cannot be optimistic about what we observed at the first meetings. There is a need for a cohesive exit from this crisis, both from people and from territories, and unfortunately today it is not appreciated either in the criteria for distribution or in the prioritization of spending policies, as this cohesive output will be conquered. I think with an example you'll understand me better. Today, we still have no three-year programming for resource spending policies that are expected to be allocated to the management of autonomous communities. And this situation has consequences, because uncertainty about the annualized resources and the allocation criteria prevent programming by the autonomous communities. What no one can discuss at this point is that the pandemic is having a very important impact on the finances of all autonomous communities, but not all autonomous communities are being treated the same. We are all aware that autonomous communities receive the bulk of their income from the system of self-financing. Because of the pandemic, the central government complements this funding with a series of extraordinary funds to compensate for the extraordinary expenses and the reduction of income. We have been complaining for months that in the allocation of these resources the Central Government is using changing criteria and increasingly remote from those referred to in the system of self-financing itself. The result of the last few months, as well as the financing of the autonomous communities associated with covid, is characterized by successive rounds of financing which are substanceed without debate in the Tax and Financial Policy Council. Meetings which do not explain why the accounts are distributed and which are held without a priori estimate are the additional global amount required and, in addition, with changing criteria not always fair. Why can't we accept this discrimination from Galicia? Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia cannot accept these discretionary allocations, because the importance of the distribution of new funds lies in that by this year 2021 exceeds 17% of total resources via non-financial income to autonomous communities. The result of this erratic proceeding is that extraordinary resources are changing the ordinaryity that designs the system of autonomous financing, based on criteria consistent with the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. And they're replacing themselves with others discreetly defined by the General Administration of the State without any possibility of claim. For this reason, they are getting more resources from those autonomous communities that have the highest per capita income, and less from those that have a lower per capita income, unlike the criteria that are followed in the European Union. So, not only from the point of view of the coherence of the existing financing system, but from the distribution it is supposed, we believe that the result does not favor a coherent recovery of the pandemic shock. On the contrary, it will increase the gap between the most dynamic and the convergent regions. And in the case of our autonomous community, this discrimination has a figure, because if we applied the criteria linked to the system of self-financing, Galicia would have to have received today 660 million more than we have perceived with the different and changing criteria assigned. There are multiple examples of penalization in Galicia, but some go to the extremes. Do you think it is reasonable that Galicia receives only 2.5 % of the total resources allocated to the Water Sanitation and Purging Plan? Do you think it is reasonable that Galicia receives only 3.6% of the resources provided for housing rehabilitation? Ladies and gentlemen, this discretion cannot continue, and I call for the support of all parliamentary groups in the House to demand that the resources linked to the National Plan of Recovery, Transition and Resilience be corrected for this discrimination with Galicia. Therefore, and summarizing, the Galician Union in an exceptional year by the pandemic, as it was in 2020, took exceptional and immediate measures, a treasury plan to bring liquidity, a strategy to speed up payments to suppliers, a cover-19 fund and a Plan to reactivate and economic dynamize to mobilise EUR 3,000 million. In an exceptional year and full of needs, the extraordinary expenditure was EUR 629 million, with an additional effort of EUR 90 million. In Galicia we lead the investor effort, in Galicia we pay before any other autonomous community and in half time than the average. In Galicia we spent everything we needed to meet the pandemic without giving up a single euro. Therefore, in an exceptional year, Galicia chose not to have surpluses, as they had eight autonomous communities, and kept its controlled deficit at 0.1%, which allows us to maintain the greatest differential in GDP debt in the historical series. And in an exceptional year, one in five of the Greek homes, more than 43,000, benefited from the suspension of autonomous taxes until the first of November. A close exercise of an exceptional year in which Galicia maintained its usual strengths, to be available this year 2021 to continue fighting the pandemic, to promote economic reactivation and to care for both families and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u22	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the part of the parliamentary groups, we started with Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo in the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Counsellor. I want to begin by expressing our total rejection of the anti-democratic behaviour of the People's Party, which wants to expel the candidate who won the municipal elections in Ourense, Rafael Villarino from politics. Faced with the blackmail of Feijóo and Baltar, out of caciquism and respect for democracy. [[Applause]] I would also like to recall today in this speech the 2,384 people who died in Galicia as a result of the cowardice. To transfer them to their families and to all the people who have suffered and are suffering from this disease our most sincere affection. Today, Counsellor, you come here to this plenary session of the Galician Parliament to boast of the wonderfully good that the Greek Government has managed the 19th-caliber pandemic during 2020. Here comes a report on the closure of the exercise and the extraordinary expenditure caused by the cover-19 in 2020. A report of what the opposition parliamentary groups know only through that information that hangs on the website, which is entitled "Reporting the Media" after the end of the Council of Galicia. And it also refers to Atriga's data, from which opposition groups have no knowledge, or at least from now on on the Atriga website, the annual activity report for the year 2020 is not attached. The truth is, it seems to us at least curious. But once again, Mr. Counsellor, advertising and propaganda and the lack of transparency are the two most outstanding features of how to rule the Galician Union of President Feijóo and his Government team. What are the reasons why we are not approached by this report to parliamentary groups in order to be able to debate with all the data? It seems to the socialists that this is not serious, Counselor. You don't rule your home, not even your business, this isn't a community of owners. You're a government of an autonomous community and you have to live up to your responsibilities. So this isn't serious, come here without having those reports, just a press release. [[Applause]] You come here today to tell us how wonderful they are, to tell us a story about those who have us used to this government. He comes to tell us that the German Government has spent everything necessary to meet all the pandemic issues, while at the same time controlling the deficit and the debt. Well, look, Counselor, I'm going to show you once again that the Galician Board has not been up to the situation, that you have, as always, been more concerned about comparing accounts than about caring for people, and I'm going to deny you with data those statements. Mr. Martínez, in that note in the phantom report which only meets the Council of the Union, which does not exist for citizenship and for parliamentary groups, at least the opposition groups -- I don't know if the groups that support the Government have that report -- because you say that the Council of Galicia has had an extraordinary expense caused by the 19th century of EUR 629 million. And it also breaks down: 270.3 million in health care, 111.8 million in education, 70.2 in strengthening social policies and 53.7 million in employment. Well, the first of my questions is, what about the other 119 million euros that they spent on? Because if you do the bills, if you add up and stay, of course what you're talking about doesn't amount to 629 million euros. I don't know why he laughs, maybe if we had the report, I wouldn't laugh either, but so what he gives me is... well, I'll keep it, at last. You come here today to explain to us that the Galician Union has spent these 629 million euros, but the truth is that in its little intervention it has adapted to the source of these resources. And the socialists are going to refresh your memory a little bit, Counselor. You know that these resources came because the Government of the State, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, released immediately after the declaration of the state of alarm a number of measures so that autonomous communities could meet the extraordinary health and education costs, and also to provide direct assistance to businesses and self-employed people most affected by the crisis. That Government of the State, to which you have been dedicated to criticizing throughout the pandemic, even here you have a moment in your intervention, which, instead of standing by your side to sum up efforts and fight all of you against this pandemic, the Government of Greece, you, have decided to join efforts with other governments of their own color and sneeze, to paralyze and criticize in the face of such a grave situation as never known, never known, Counselor! [[Applause]] Because, look, Counselor, you're so concerned about matching your accounts, it seems that in this case you don't want to stop doing them, you don't care, or it's one more example of this opacity of this German Government. Because you know perfectly well that in order to be able to spend more, you have to have more income, and those incomes to meet all the pandemic and at the same time control the deficit and the public debt because they came through transfers from the state of Spain to the Union of Galicia. See, on 16 June 2020, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, approved the Covid-19 Fund, which has a total of €16 billion. I don't know what you're laughing at, Counselor, I think the debate we're having is quite serious, I don't think it's to laugh. But, well. So that autonomous communities could finance Mr. Counselor, I'm in the use of the word, I know you're counsellor and I'm not but I suppose we'll have the same rights. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[The Counselor utters words that are not perceived.]] For on 16 June 2020, the Government of Pedro Sánchez approved the Covid-19 Fund, with EUR 16 billion, so that the autonomous communities could finance the costs of the pandemic, a non-refundable fund that would not generate more debt and no interest, of which Galicia accounted for EUR 735 million: EUR 418 million for health care, 93 for education and 224 for the reduction of economic activity. So, if we do the math, just look at it like this, 735 is more than 629, Counsellor, specifically 106 million euros more. That's right, isn't it? Now you don't laugh. Good. And besides, if we do it strictly and we take only what it says in that phantom report or in that phantom note we still don't know, because you say that in health and education they spent 386.1 million euros. But they got 511, so there's still EUR 124.9 million left that came from the state and that you didn't tell us what they spent on here. On his second turn, I hope you can make it clear. [[Applause]] And besides, look, I'm going to make it easier for you to do the job and I'm going to do the math for you. Look, in health care, you know that the initial health budget in 2020 increased over the year by 451 million euros. But if we take into account the recognized obligations, i.e. the committed expenditure, and we remain to the initial credit contained in those budgets, we have a difference of 422 million euros, 400 million euros, of which 418 were approached by the state. Well, we would have that Junta, at most, would have an effort of 4 million euros, far away from that investment effort of 90 million euros that you were talking about and which appears in that press release of that ghost report to which I refer. In addition, if we are going to how those resources were spent in 2020, because we have to bet on a quality public job at the Galician Union instead of paying for public employment, these amounts continue to be used for potential staff, a potential staff to which they allocate EUR 500 million per year in Sergas. 500 million euros a year in Sergas! And that's probably more, because the Board of Auditors itself says that Sergas' budget is opaque, and it presents itself in a complex way, so it's impossible to make a proper control of its games. A sample of that opacity that this Greek Government has in managing it. Also in 2020 the Galician Union continues to provide primary care, continues to receive fewer resources than it received in 2009, and we are talking about more than 100 million euros less than it received in 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u25	...to pay attention to quality, because there are fewer resources and things today cost more. I'm done, Mr. President. The state funds for extraordinary expenditure cover health, 418 million euros have been used largely not to increase the stakes, not to manage better, not to strengthen the health system, but to withdraw from them the own funds devoted to the Union of Galicia. There's nothing else on this shift and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr Counsellor, as an initial question, I wanted to make it clear that the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group seems very important to us to analyse the impact of the public expenditure on the public spending. It is necessary not only to monitor past decisions, which you have also taken in an important period of time in addition to an interim situation, but also, above all, to debate future decisions and to act on the weaknesses that the pandemic has shown, because there are and there must be action on them. But because of that importance precisely, among other initiatives, from this group we have moved, in the light of the relationship with the Board of Auditors, that this body should report specific; you know that some of them will see light in the year 2022, it is clear that there are debates and reflections that cannot wait until then, so I say that we share the background of the appearance, the importance of the matter, but not of the form, allow me to tell it. He's been out here in this debate. I say it's not the way because beyond the initial part of jaja vu of issues we've already discussed, the truth is, if at the Board of Directors last April 15 you've allegedly passed two reports from your board, one on tax actions in 2020 and one on the closure of the exercise, because it's surprising at least that there are clandestine reports. The next day from that note from the Board of Trustees this group has registered control initiatives, requested a copy of these reports, and you want me to tell you! It's great that he comes to like it, but for such an important matter, he wouldn't be disappointed either, considering that this isn't a conference room or a class, because we had a minimum of unbundled information beyond those two paragraphs that go on the press report on the impact of spending on public buildings. Because the truth is that it's not even good the sum, that it's passed to them already in the 12 initial leaves of the Next Generation that sent us Mr. Count, for it can happen to any one; that already the other day Mr. Feijóo had trachole, we're going to think that innocently, those numbers of vaccinated in Galicia with a dose and vaccinated in the state with two doses, because we're going to think innocently. But now that you come here to give some data and that you also repeat your data and that in yours there are still 119 million missing for the self-denominated Government of rigor, I don't know if they're awake or what happens to them, but it's at least surprising. [[Applause]] Single players, it doesn't seem serious, Mr. Martínez, and notes that the Government's intention with this appearance is somewhat the same as with the budgetary debate, as with European projects. Come here, boast of yourself and don't answer the slightest explanation, need for control, assume the slightest criticism or suggestion from the opposition. But anyway, we'll try. And, look, Mr. Martínez, you came here to offer an account of an ideal management as impossible, because there's an unprecedented pandemic and you tried to sell us here that it's possible to mix water and oil into a kind of miracle. They say they've spent everything they need and at the same time say they've been the most accomplished with the framework of deficit and stability, and even at a time when it's suspended. And the two things are not possible at the same time, not because all that is necessary is subjective, but because I am convinced that even if you do an internal analysis, there must have been moments in this pandemic where you would have spent more if you could; for example, when there were no protective mechanisms because there was simply no access to the market and you couldn't buy them. Or probably at other times they could spend and they didn't want to do it because of political ideology. And I'm setting an example, direct help to self-government and self-government. You took eight months to enable them, eight months while other autonomous communities did. And they didn't because they waited at the last moment when they couldn't stand social pressure anymore, and they could have rearranged the expense before, and they could have helped a lot of people before because for many people that didn't come in time. Therefore, a little, as a synthesis of his appearance, we can say that there is an extraordinary crisis, but that the measures taken by Junta are not as extraordinary as he says. Because I don't want to lose value and importance to matters like paying the suppliers in time and in form, which is important, but it's something the community was doing and that could continue to do so. And so it's not something to give them a Nobel Prize either. The same with regard to suspensions of certain taxes. It is, of course, that while you as a Government are demanding councils and states to exempt virtually any tax, the only thing that you basically did -- except for a small exception -- were aggravations; and that doesn't solve the situation for those who can't afford it. So these strengths of those who boast because we think they're not so many, every time you've shown yourself in any case to be a rather unusual administration; for example, in relation to the municipalities, that you've incurred extraordinary expenses and that you haven't collaborated or collaborated economically with them. But I also have to say that we have a discrepancy in the analysis of the context that you do, because they paint a pre- pandemic reality and a macroeconomic picture with a triumphalist ABC and as ideal as unreal. You don't know that before the pandemic arrived we had indicators that already talked about slowdown, you don't know that our GDP actually falls less than in the state, but we know that this slower fall is also followed by a slower recovery, and that is mainly given by the weight of sectors such as housing or tourism. And, therefore, it clings to that little data to disguise a reality as more positive than it is. But in any case, I'd like us to go a little to the numbers, to which the pandemic numbers give us. The fact is that 2020 is an unprecedented year and budget comparisons cannot be a normal year, we are aware, but still, by analyzing budget execution, by analyzing budgetary changes, what we see are the usual errors of the autonomous community. We see that there are aspects that you haven't made an effort to correct. For example, less-executed chapters are still those devoted to investment: capital transfers, real investments. How can you come here to say they haven't left -- as strongly as you like -- investing not a single euro available if they have millions of euros without running? It's not serious, Mr. Martínez, it's doing budgetary filibusterism here to support an unsupported account. Just like sections and programmes with a lower level of execution because they are such important areas as employment, industry, the rural environment and the sea, which have a lot of needs. So it's a little surreal that comes here to give large numbers to those who measure the cost of the pandemic, I insist, in those figures that are consistent with the press note there are 119 million left, which I would like you to clarify to where they were, I suppose it will be a problem, as always, of the cognitive capacity of the opposition, but it seems rather that you want to create a mirrorism already to advance future measures and of course, it cannot be possible. But I would also like to stop on a matter that I think is important. You spoke here of a criminalized Galician, welcome; if, indeed, there is discrimination against this country, it does not come in addition to the cowardice, but we are now seeing it as we will see in the major debates as European funds are. But, of course, the question is, indeed, I agree with one part of its report, we receive less than the percentage of the population or the percentage of GDP, no longer entering the additional costs that it has the provision of certain services and that in many cases are ignored. But, of course, the question is, yes, the State acts as if Galicia were a branch, we're concerned. But we're also concerned that you act the same way, act as if we were a branch and don't act like a country government, and that's one of the main problems we have, Mr. Martínez. [[Applause]] Because you guys, besides coming here to cry, they don't do anything, they don't do anything, they didn't make a single proposal for measure to respond firmly to this discrimination that it's not abstractly asking for support. [[Applause]] Do you want BNG's support? You know he's got it! Let's sit down, discuss whether it's 660 million or if it's more or if it's less. Let's discuss it and make a front to defend it. But the question is that after you, Mr. Feijó will meet with Mr. Sánchez, and that's one aspect that they don't even collect in the press release, that's the importance of the policy they give him. They must not be allowed to claim this question beyond Padornello. Of course, it doesn't seem to us that they go seriously, and it doesn't look like us, but the government of Sanchez does not take us seriously. [[Applause]] It's just that it doesn't take us seriously, that's the problem we have later. In any case, we'll be there, but I also want to ask you again for something in return; because, of course, that lack of transparency, darkness, dialogue and negotiation that the Government of Sanchez has in European funds -- that I agree -- is the same thing that you have here in Galicia with the economic, social sectors and with this opposition; it's exactly the same. And just as it is from the banana republic that today the Government of the State is going to approve the orientation of tax, labour and economic reforms, and that neither the state parliament nor anyone knows anything and is clandestine, just as this is the property of a banana republic, it is the property of a banana republic that you intend to do in Galicia. So preach with the example, and if you correct, we'll be there. In any case, one last question about the accounts you put us here and I'd like you to break down, because it's frankly mysterious to know where those numbers come from. From the budget data, it's obvious there's something more to talk about than 629 million. For example, the initial appropriations when the 2020 budgets were approved were 11,000 and I peaked at EUR 31 December, the neighbours have an increase of almost 3,000 million; of course we have to analyze more than EUR 620 million. But I want to put a couple of examples, very briefly, that accounts don't give and even in such important aspects as health care. I insist, once again every year, the Board of Auditors always tells us that there is more expenditure than the Galician Board expects; it is unheard that they want to convince us that even, with a change of more than EUR 400 million, there is already a change of more than EUR 270 million in this pandemic arrived at Health. Because then, one out of two, or you didn't spend everything you needed, or you just froze down some very important health issues that weren't strictly related to the pandemic -- from primary care to other specialized issues -- to extract resources from there and make this self-comprehensive story. Because, indeed, they are more attentive to compliance with the deficit rules, even in such an extraordinary context as this one, than to provide public services. But the question is, what is that cost for the Greeks and the Greeks? It's tremendous in terms of public health and it's tremendous in terms of social rights. We therefore deny the greatest, we think that they could otherwise have met the health, economic and social priorities of this crisis; those that have decided the People's Party are not, of course, those that we defend from the Nationalist Block of Galicia. And the conclusion that we draw a little bit from this appearance, if we ask ourselves what is the conclusion that we draw from this pandemic, from the corrections that should be made, it is obvious that they are totally different. We understand that it has certified the weakness we had in public services, many weaknesses also in the productive system, and it has also confirmed that, although this limited self-government has many seams, it is better when we exercise them and therefore the exit has to be more public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u29	...reorientation of the economic model and more self-government exercise. The next time you have an opportunity to give us a proposal instead of continuing to navigate in self-comprehensiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u31	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. I begin by thanking the counsellor for his presence. It is an appearance requested by the Government, which comes up with its own request to explain the closure of the exercise in an indeed extraordinary year, to take account of the financial decisions taken, of the expenditure executed and also to advance the prospects for the future. And certainly mere appearance is an exercise of transparency and today we hear criticisms of the lack of transparency of the Government of the Union, especially in financial matters, and I think they chose a bad day. For the first time AIREF -- the independent body of the tax authority -- has produced a report on transparency in public accounts, which is, by the way, very much worth the action and the rules for the processing of budgets in this House. The summary that AIREF makes is that the transparency ranking is led by Andalusia, Galicia and Navarra; curiously the last two in the ranking are two socialist communities, Asturias and Castile-A Mancha. But it is difficult with reports from independent authorities that positively assess the transparency of the Government in financial matters today to return to the discourse of the lack of transparency. Well, indeed, the year 2020 was a pandemic year and it was also an election year. And today I felt certain nostalgia that when we had debates on the execution of spending after autonomous elections, we were told that we had made an extraordinary effort solely for electoral reasons. We haven't heard of this today, even if we've heard of the opposite, that not only by the pandemic and not even by the elections, the Government has been able to spend when the data that today's advisor has denied that statement at the outset. The fact is that the pandemic completely crippled activity or, more specifically, the measures taken by the Government, essentially confinement, completely crippled economic activity, and it was necessary, and therefore -- except for the essential -- there was an entirely unknown stoppage in modern economies in its history. And that total stop in the economy has, as we already know, caused a fall in GDP from all Western countries, but especially from Galicia, no less than 8.9 %, a recession in every rule; and, inter-annually, a fall of 8.9 %. Well, the pandemic certainly interrupted an important stage of growth in Galicia; until that moment, the German business fabric consolidated business figures never before reached by the Greek companies, there is the Ardán Report, which is also independent, which makes this manifest. And that stage of growth was interrupted by a pandemic that, despite all, proved that the Greek economy resisted better or endured less badly than the average of the Spanish economy. GDP has dropped one less point, the industrial production index -- and I'm talking about the aggregate data of the year 20 -- has dropped 4.2 points, sales of retail trade have dropped 2.9 points less. We are the fourth autonomous community with the highest drop in unemployment and in which social security affiliations increased further after the pandemic. And the households with all their assets occupied the number is 6 points above the Spanish average. Well, all these results -- which are dramatic as a result of the pandemic, but which are better than those in the average of Spain -- have some explanations. Why do some economies fall and others fall less when the pandemic has affected us all practically the same? Well, first of all, by the country's productive structure, because it's true that Galicia has no dependence on tourism that has other communities -- Balearics and Canary Islands -- but it's also true that the rest of the productive sectors have been through the rebalanced recovery with a greater weight in the primary sector, with a rather significant endurance above the average of the Spanish ensemble than the industrial sector; with a resizing to a more reasonable number of figures in the construction sector; and an increase in the service sector that, despite crises such as the one experienced in the pandemic, are already experiencing structurally some important services, such as that of the bank, for they have endured better among other things by that structure. Secondly, of course, because health measures and levels of restriction imposed by the autonomous authorities in most of the year have conditioned economic growth. It is true that the communities that best defended their populations had the opportunity to release some of the health restrictions imposed by the pandemic, of movements, of activities and therefore had a better ability to react. Obviously, this has to do with the fact that Galicia has overcome the narrow health pandemic felt better than the rest of the autonomous communities, better than the average, which has also allowed the economy to be better. And thirdly, strictly economic measures, and here we judge governments. Well, first of all, what became clear about the crisis is that the pre-accounting situation had a great impact on the ability of governments to react. So economies like German, which were in a balance situation, even with surpluses, had much more reaction capacity to support the productive sectors than economies that did not have that margin; among them, for example, Spain. That's why ceteris parbus was also in better conditions Galicia to react than other autonomous communities that drag a heavy debt, such as Catalonia or Valencia. Secondly, the reaction capacity, when it didn't depend on the state itself, depended on the European Union. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo recalled that the State actually provided funds for the autonomous communities and said that a kind of selective memory was being practised. She also forgot something, that all this additional funding comes from Europe. For example, all REACT funds have been used to maintain ERTE, that thing that was in the work reform that the PP had introduced, and that of so long served to alleviate the crisis at this time. And, therefore, there was an important European reaction; firstly, with the suspension of budgetary rules; secondly, with a monetary policy that allows the Spanish authorities to owe themselves at the very low cost, which they could not do without the intervention of the European Central Bank; and, finally, with the contribution of funds that the State receives on the basis of a principle of cohesion and that it distributes in this way among the autonomous communities, as the councillor also said. Secondly, also the reaction of the Government of Spain; I will not criticize some of the things that the Government of Spain has done. I think it was very intelligent, like the ERTEs, it was very clever to supply the low income of the autonomous communities in the short term with a hidden fund, but also with a fund that compensated for the declines in taxes owned by the autonomous communities. That was a positive decision for the whole, what happens is that we also have to see how these decisions are translated that affect the whole in each of the autonomous communities. And thirdly, because, indeed, the Board itself had room for manoeuvre because it had the ability to make an internal budgetary effort, capacity for economic and also political maneuvers, because it was a cohesive Government in which a health emergency does not prevent you from advising that they have other activities from reducing spending and making a credit transfer to those who need to make the spending more perennial. Well, we believe that the Board has acted very well, modified cretans, increased the spending of money, contributed 100 million euros of own resources. The advisor provided liquidity with a treasury plan of 1,800 million euros. The payment to the suppliers kept the liquidity of the companies supplying the Union. We're talking about a difference from 18.7 days on average to 35.5 days on average in the whole autonomous communities. Self-liquidation periods were suspended. It's said they're on hold. Well, we're talking about taxes like succession. Succession tax may be a liquidity problem to pay it and it's well overdue, but that doesn't mean there isn't a significant increase in the economic capacity of the subjects to pay a succession tax that, as you know, in Galicia has 99% discounts for transmissions from parents to children. So it seems reasonable to postpone it and not suppress it, which is what the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block seems to have said. And finally invested 1,400 million euros. The result is that, in fact, Junta receives, according to the accounts that have been made public, around 734 million for all government concepts of transfers by the vault, but the fact is that, if we add together the 195 tax revenues, which are partly offset by these incomes that the Board has no longer received, plus the 629 receipts, which has spent too much on health, education, social policy and other issues that the advisor now explains, the result is that we have received 90 million euros less than the Board has spent exclusively on the reason of the covid. And to say and come back here today with this argument, I would like the Socialist Party to reflect on this issue. All the figures for all the transfers that are being made in Galicia are very significantly below what Galicia is corresponding to for any fund it corresponds to for the autonomic financing system. We didn't even get close. From there comes the 660 million that the councillor said. And above all, the Socialist Party's argument is that we took advantage of the crisis to reduce expenses on other sides and save money on other ways because we don't want to spend, when this administration went through a deficit of 0.1 and there were eight autonomous communities that had passed over, we must also remember that. Well, this argument is not received and less for a Greek party, especially when it's true, it's unquestionable because it's a question of percentages, to see that Galicia would correspond much more to it by applying the system of autonomous financing, and the advisor gave some very significant figures, such as the sanitation of laughter or transport, as in Galicia there is no transport, because 3% tones in the transport fund, and so on. That a party in this House takes a speech that not only tells us we don't miss, but rather we don't spend what we get, I think it's dangerous and counterproductive entry to the autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u33	...from now on, the European funds will be distributed on a large scale. I think the Socialist Party should rectify, not always follow up on what the Socialist Party says in Madrid, which addresses other interests and we all think and we know that they are better political in order to ensure the stability of the Government of Spain. But that's not Galician war, the Galician war is to obtain what is fair to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u34	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, councillor and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u35	Thank you again, Mr. President. With greater intensity the representative of the Socialist Party than with the representative -- at other times they have also branded me and branded us --, as is the subject, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, of advertising and propaganda, right? Let me stop myself for a moment in this because I think it's totally the opposite, neither of my forms nor of it. By the way, I'm surprised that with the mask that I had you able to know if I'm laughing or crying, but, well, it's going to benefit from inventory because it really means I have very expressive eyes, right? I deduce from your consideration. I think not, I think the result in that extraordinary year that was the year 2020, I think it's a closure, as I told them -- always the repeat -- but I think it's a serious, solvent and rigorous closure. I'll go from words to arguments and to a certain point to metrics. I think what I said here today, as has been normal and usual, is using contrasted data sources. If we're talking about debt, we're talking about the Banco de España; if we're talking about closure of exercise, execution data that, in their case, have already passed through the tamiz as well of the General Intervention of the State. When we talk about period and means of payment, it's the same methodology in all autonomous communities, also for the central government, also for local corporations. That's what I mean. I'm using official data, as is normal. Well, what are we at the head of the middle pay period is bad? I think it's not bad. In a year of so many difficulties, it's always good to pay as soon as possible, but for the whole, as I told you, of the thousands of autonomouss who interact with the Galician Union, small and medium-sized companies, the UTEs, the large companies, the pharmacy offices through their schools, is it bad for all of that set that we pay under 15 days in the period from March to the end of the year? I think not, I think it's a very healthy thing for any business and for the public business that represents us, especially for what we move to the civil domain, it's very important. It's very important that when we're treated as untransparent by one or another group, more intensively today for its part, and then comes the contrast of AIREF, the first time this study is done in Spain for the autonomous communities, and only three autonomous communities: Andalusia, Galicia and Navarre are approved. For, by the way, there is no kind of allocation to what the State Administration is, but I'm sure there was a number, you who today acted here, Mrs. Rumbo, of union liaison of the Government here too -- it must be the new government sub-delegated in Galicia -- let me tell you that the state would be suspended. When a detailed analysis of the report by AIRF, 8 of the 36 items to the Autonomous Community of Galicia presents a better result than the State Administration. The opposite sense, in four, the central government of the state presents a better result than the autonomous community. We don't have to be either, nor do we know a lot of math, if we pull out a 1.58 over three and we get a lot to improve, but we approve, but we approve, other governments so dear to you don't even get to the pass. You also think it's advertising the data published by the Ministry of Finance on budget execution and maintaining and being leaders in the investor effort. Now I will also refer to a question which has also been put forward by Mrs Presas in relation to chapters VI and VII, for which it is good to contextualize and put it in a position what it means for our economy and what it means to what is the behavior of our equal and similar. Or you think that it's also advertising the data offered by the Banco de España, which tells us that, increasing our debt, in a much lower sense than any other autonomous community, since 2008 and in the last year, the differential is already at 7.2% of GDP and, above all, also what that means to our citizens, the Greeks and the Greeks. That's what I'll mention in a moment, too, to the subject of debt. I think it's good that all these bodies, let me tell you, I don't think we have an excessive influence either on the Ministry of Finance or on the Bank of Spain, nor on General Intervention, nor on the Independent Authority of Tax Responsibility, give us the four or five elements with which complex institutions are looking at in the public domain. There are some other criteria, I volunteer to compare myself with anyone else; bring them here and let's compare them. I think it's not wrong for Galicia to be first in all these items. As I think it's not bad that in a year as difficult as last year was the set of acts developed by the Union at the end present a slight deficit of 0.1%, not as well as other autonomous communities that presented a surplus. Imagine what we would be hearing in this Parliament if the Galician Union in such a difficult year for families, for businesses, in general for all, presented a surplus on what was last year. So I think it's good figures for the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but the most important thing is not to be first in a ranking, or second, the most important thing is what everything and each of these items means. When we talked about debt we were, as I told you, not covering with artificial solutions, which is what is happening in the Kingdom of Spain in 2020 and in 2021. And now I'll also refer to your intervention, because we're covering up and giving solutions to the present that will be problems for the future, everything is not so much of the magnitude, but the intensity with which we're using certain policies. Theme number one, therefore, the subject of advertising and propaganda, which I think is somehow something that we should congratulate all of us on. We've seen him for a long time, and I think they've recognized him. There's another question you've been referring to now that it's a good time for us to stop a little bit, which is the source of the funds. The source of the funds, here I have a very large savanna, little by little we're going to complete it, we're going to complete it because you don't stop getting scared, but also the torts that don't take you -- and I say autonomous community -- I think they're making us stronger. When one analyzes all and each of the extraordinary funds that were distributed from March of the year 20, it proves that, until the sectoral aid is reached -- and then I'll also refer a little bit to them if I have time, I think yes, which is free today -- it turns out that we have 39 different items, and we're talking about social services in the extraordinary background, we're talking about the first extraordinary approach to health, of the state housing plan that was later, of the covered fund in its different four subtrails, of what you want. In the end, what we're talking about is autonomous competences. This is called in financial terms an autonomous financing system, which has its current rules, in the part that affects us as a common regime community and which, while not altering, the central government is quietly altering the ordinality derived from the current system of self-financing. With that criterion, all the distributions made up to this day... not today, but until about a month ago, they give this community a disaster of 666.35 million euros, not even the 660 we had until a moment ago, not so much. Is it such a hard thing to understand that the rules that we have given ourselves among all is not a gift from the Government or the Kingdom of Spain? Keep in mind, too, that most of these extraordinary funds have a European origin. It is the rest that is not European origin, it is due, only to look at the result presented by the Central Administration of the strict state sensu in 2020. But the debt is everyone's debt and each of the Spanish and Spanish. And then we're bonding. We, the autonomous community, are coming less than what is ours, and yet we have a debt just like the citizen of any other territory. So let me tell you to give to the central government, not the first, not the first. But what is more, when we focus on the famous bottom covered in the four subtrails, on the four subtrails that we're talking about, we're talking about health, there were two, and I'm going to focus on health, because with the same variables that the state used, with the same variables that the Ministry of Finance used when the first line was divided, and the second narrowly sanitary cover, with data, with the same data that they used, not the own ones of the financing system, with the very data that the Ministry of Finance used at that time, which were not others that protected population, curiously in the second stretch, they realized that they were hand in the first one and they corrected something, but they didn't... they were going to say noses, but for it doesn't stay, I mean they didn't have to repair that situation. Theme number one, because here what comes to you are protected people, which means that the age structure has a very important conditioner. On the other hand, they were handy on the subject of ICUs, because what was an affidavit in principle when you look at it in annual terms, all the autonomous communities made an additional effort to have ICUs both in the human resource, which is the most important, and in the resource of health equipment, that many of us had to complete, but everywhere was the same. As was also measured, apart from ICUs, people who were in hospital beds; everywhere the hospital beds were used according to the magnitude they had and were completed in some cases, in all autonomous communities. With the same criteria, with data on 31 December 20, it turns out that the Autonomous Community of Galicia, with the criteria used by the Administration, the Ministry of Finance, would have to have received 62 million more. Let me tell him I can't agree. But this procedure is happening to everyone and everyone. They heard me when it was also, and we discussed the budget for this year, the fund for this year, and what we know of the autonomous communities, today, and that the transfer that will come from the central government of the state, that so progressive administration, it turns out that it will come according to the GDP per capita of people; that is, those that we have a GDP below average are going to receive less to care for our health, our education, our social services than other parts that have a GDP above average. You'll understand that's Robin Hood's reverse theory. And there's another more recent example, apart from the bleeding I was commenting on a moment ago on other subjects. The last example given by Royal Decree Law 5 this year, the famous corporate aid decree. Yes, it's default who can receive and who can't, based on an income drop. Yes, it's default for the period you can pay, and how you have to justify, and how you have to keep the job for some years. Yeah, we have the CNAEs, which shouldn't be, because if you have a drop of income and it's objective, this comes from the CNAEs and so on. This is an invention taken out of the hand by some intelligent individuals in the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance to make this kind of cafradas with a territorial breakdown. Because, what I'm telling you, if it's default, what criteria are granted, who you are given, which is what you have to do with this, there's a logical sequence, which has to do with territorialization, which has to do with whether a business or an autonomous is in the Community of Murcia or in the Community of Galicia, in the Community of La Rioja or in the Community of Andalusia. We have examples and it will happen the same thing that happened with the covered fund last year, where some territories will go out in positive and other territories in negative. That's so clear. And this does nothing to personal cohesion or territorial cohesion, and we're always losing them. I will also refer to this, Mrs. Presas, within a moment. But we have reached the limit when we even distribute quantitatively not very large funds, as is happening at this time, for certain municipalities, which has to do with the Sectoral Energy Conference, where what is intended is energy rehabilitation in buildings, certain unique projects and sustainable local development public initiatives, for municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, the criterion is the number of local corporations with less than 5,000 inhabitants, amazing! I think we're reaching limits that already rub the absurd, for being moderately educated, the absurd. It will not be the variable population that lives in those municipalities from less than 5,000 inhabitants to variables that would make sense. It's not people who at the same time have businesses who can make a policy of decentizing their homes, their buildings, their businesses. How hard is it to understand? So we proposed to the Sectoral Conference; on the one hand he went in, on the other hand he went out. The conclusion is that Galicia, representing more than 10% of the population living in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, as our municipal plant is of certain municipalities, not that they have in Aragon or Castela-Leon, turns out that it does not touch us as much as three percent. That's what's happening for everything. Not at all, I'm going through, too; there are sectoral conferences that aren't doing anything wrong, too, but at the end we're always doing the same. So he can't be. The source, therefore, Mrs Rumbo, of funds that have a European origin in large part and those that do not have European origin are debt, debt that it is mutualized, and from which it is receiving this autonomous community out of the ordinaryity that is designed in the system of autonomous financing. I don't know why they're afraid of you in the central government summoning the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council a little more fluid, but I'll explain why. I'll also make reference within a moment, to some details that are happening. There are days when it's good to get out of bed, it's not bad today, by the way, not for me, but for the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Let's hope it's what it's for. You also made a reference to Sergas temporality. Let's just go, I don't explain that everyone talks to their parish and I understand that there are certain organizations that are very interested in bottlenecking the field. This has an easy solution. We've been proposing this for years, the last less than two months in the field of the Ministry of Territorial Policy, which has to do with the Basic Statute of the Public Employee. They eliminate the restorative rate and there will be no problem of temporality; if not, it is virtually impossible to recover in all public employment, especially in health, temporality rates below 7% that we all try to give. Today, there's a very specific news that the President of the Valencian Community is asking for. I'm going one step further, and I've also said it at parliamentary headquarters, if the replacement rate is eliminated, we'll have a problem solved on a time horizon of two or three years with regard to general temporality. And in the future there's a way to fix it, and so we proposed, in writing, as it should be, which is: anyone happens to him that for the coming year, about, there will be a volume of people who retire, some unfortunately leaving us as a public employee in general, and that can be done as in Europe, in an early manner. To be prudent, instead of taking out a hundred percent of the estimated, we get 80 percent, and that's what it means, when we do selective processes, we have people with a priority in each of the categories that you can access when there's a vacancy, and the vacancies are there every day and every day of the year, so that you can, of course, incorporate as staff already done, with which we will be solving this situation in the future. So the replacement rate is eliminated and it goes to models compared to those in Europe, in which case almost everything is invented. Madam President, I think this Government has been agile to respond at sectoral level. There was an interview, and there's still an interview, with all the representatives we can in each and every one. I believe that our example of the first rescue plan to self-sustainment, micropemes and hospitality is an example at the national level, an example of agility and an example of approach to the sector, as an example is also being the second plan. Globally, along with other kinds of help, we're talking about more than 160 million euros today. I don't know any local or autonomic administration that as generally as it is happening in this case, where, even when I hadn't finished the possibility that people had made their request, they were already receiving the corresponding approaches and the facilities they're receiving. Therefore, example of execution, but the light years of any other. You were also talking about Chapters VI and VII, which is the opposite of the world, because you were talking about Chapter VI and VII to this community, which, as I was saying to you, has in recent years, in the last ten or twelve years, we are always first in what the investor effort is. But it's just that the investor effort is sometimes like a percentage because it masks a little bit of what the question is. The question is that the Autonomous Community of Galicia, Chapter VI and VII, in 2020, presents an obligation of EUR 1,402 million. That's what we have to look at, 1,402. But you, who are so nationalists, will give them another data, which I think is good for them to know. It's good to know that Catalonia, with its size, has spent 1,383, with its size! It's good that you know that the Basque Country has spent 905 million euros, it's good that they know that Navarra has spent 311, but it's the 12th in absolute importance and it's equal to the average of Spain, about 7.3. It's good to value what as an autonomous community we're doing. But we're doing this in what it means to be winning the future of our businesses and our civil society in general. It's good. As it's good, when you come to give some data, as it was the liquidation of last year, and the most outstanding data is the 629 million euros of spending associated with the cod. But in short, the budget, what it had, was 856.6 million euros more in non-financial expenditure; that is, it wasn't all the expenditure associated with the profit. There was already an approved budget in this Parliament, and that approved budget was what allowed, in addition to the vault, to have higher expenses, services, increased investments added to the previous 629, of EUR 245.7 million, in the most difficult year in the years that this autonomous community had at the financial level. By the way, when in the first intervention he was giving the data that was spent, obviously what they said were the four main items, the four main items, which were: health, 270.3 directly, but it is that in Health there were also a lot more things done, a lot more than the subject that is related to the cover; 111.8 in the Council of Culture, Education and University; 70.2 in Social Policy; 52.7 million euros in Employment and Equality; 36 million euros in Infrastructure and Mobility; 31.7 million euros in the Second Vice-Presidency, linked above all to IGAPE's performance; 18.6 million euros in the First Vice-Presidentship, Justice; and in Tourism above all, 18.6. And so on. There were also EUR 11.4 million in the Rural Media Council, linked to the productive sectors. This is what happens, and all of this adds up to 614.8, which, if we add to account 409, which are computational expenses in Sergas that do not have the reflection here and that is less and less, gives us a total of 629 million euros, of which we spend 169.3 million euros on staff; welcome, because they allowed to care for whom to attend and accompany whom to accompany. 231.8 million in spending on current goods and services because anyone happens that this especially on the health level was something else. 40.4 directly what it meant in real investments, which allowed mainly to complete the equipment in our hospitals, also in the primary part. Even the 3.8 which was spent in Chapter VIII of the Financial Assets. Everything has an explanation, everything can also be improved safely, but I think when we look around it's very different. Galicia penalized in European funds. That was his argument, though it is true that the tone which Mrs. Presas used was a little more comet than yesterday at least was published in Mrs. Pontón's media, when she spoke that we were even receiving less because it was Mr. Feijó's direct responsibility. It's amazing what you have to hear at this point! Because we all have a bit of history and we all know more or less, not all, it's true, the vast majority, at least in Galicia, we insinuated what Mr. Pedro Sánchez's government would do, except the BNG. Of course, because when we looked at a little bit, and I say, this is white and bottled, because when we looked at the behavior and decisions he was having with Galicia, we realized that he refused to pay the 170 million euros that we had for incentives of our fiscal compliance. They looked the other way, Mr. Pedro Sánchez's Government. When the issue of EVI also began, there is time, and the Greeks in 2017 did blow up their EVI, and for a system change it turns out they owe us to the autonomous community 204. Welcome today to the knowledge we had of the first sentence of Castile and León. Two weeks ago, Tuesday 13 -- I don't know who it will be for Tuesday 13, for us or for the State Administration -- was also seen in the Supreme Court the administrative dispute which, after exhausting all the routes, had been presented in August 2020 by this Government, curiously also in September 2020 was when the dispute had been presented by the Community of Castile and León. The important thing is that you have entered the bottom of the matter, the important thing is that, when you enter the bottom of the matter, this debate lasts little, it lasts little, as the Supreme Court has just demonstrated. I wish we could go that way, I think so, but we're careful enough to wait for the sentence. In any case, we will respect it, whatever the pronouncement is, obviously. But it all indicates that the 204 million euros that we speak so much in this Parliament, and there have been pronouncements here, will have to come to the autonomous community because they are from all the Greeks and all the Greeks. But, of course, with all these background, even the non-born government budget project, the state's general budgets, where there was already a historical downgrade to which investments were being made in our autonomous community by the central government, and it turns out that with these all the warnings we have on the table, it turns out that now the Block, the official version, says that we are receiving less from European funds because of Feijóo. I mean, wouldn't it be easier to realize that it's Mr. Sánchez's government, that you've made president of the government? It's as simple as that, they don't come to play with such a kind of argumentation of your own and sometimes with a low tone but always silk gloves in the hands of iron. I think it would be much easier to be consistent, because when the time came for what Mr Sánchez, a Member of the House of Deputies, did, he said, "Thank you very much." We have fallen to the lowest level in 15 years than the investments of the Galician Administration and, as I told you, today we have 666 million euros less than we are. From that point on, what we have to all agree that this has to stop. It's not a question of whether Feijóo pays attention or not, those who are not making cases to us are the Greeks. That's what we have to try to fix. And, Mrs. Presas, the same measuring stick, of course, woman. The same thing that we ask the State is the same thing we're trying to do here in Galicia; to show a button, we've spent four months in this House with a consensus fund of EUR 115 million on a committee that we have among us all, we also have to give their opinion on social dialogue, we also have to listen to what experts say, but first and especially the parliamentary groups that we make up this House, and it turns out that we don't agree on EUR 115 million. But what do we play? Why don't we agree that these EUR 115 million can be allocated? It's much easier, and it's also prudent enough that 30% of them are RACT funds that have a three-year execution that allows some policies and not others, and the others are own funds that have a vigil in principle in this exercise. I think we should. As is a good example others who have come to this House, who have already passed the second vice-president three times by committee giving sufficient explanation, and yet give him that I give you the lack of transparency. If every time anyone looks, and looks at us a little further away from Canda and Padarnelo, or from Pedraphyta, it turns out that we are against the white, almost transparent at all, in any item that we look at this Government is a true example. I didn't understand anything and I offer myself, because I don't know what it meant, too, when it said they didn't count, and that there were 119. It's just that I, really, if you introduce me, please, in writing, I honestly promise you that until my fist and letter I challenge you in less than twenty-four hours, but I don't want to be ready here either, because -- I repeat again -- everything and well nobody does, but against the good -- go ahead. They do have their bills, both in health care and in social services. I don't know if we're gonna be the most transparent of all, the best that do things, the ones that... but when I look around, and I finish this first intervention, yes I realize of one thing, at least we're the ones that say the least lies We're the ones that say the least lies of those who are there, of those who are there or others who look at us and so on. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much, and until very soon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u36	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I invite you at any time to argue with me when I tell you lies. I'll invite you, please. Look, Mr. Puy, and Mr. Counsellor, I, whenever you want in this House, can do the debate only on self-financing. Whenever you want! And at that moment we will debate and see what the position of this Socialist Parliamentary Group is. And in my intervention in no case did I assume or say that the resources were many, few or regular. I am simply referring to the resources that have come and come, and that I also do not deny that they come from Europe, indeed, of course, where they come from. We want them to apply to improve Galicia and to improve the quality of life of our country's men and women. We're not against that, much less. And, look, I'm also going to tell them, both to each other, that socialists always use official data, always. And in this case the data I've used here and those I'm going to continue to use in the part of my exhibition -- which is obviously going to be very tight, because the counsellor talks about many things of which, obviously, he has unlimited time and what we lack -- but in this case it's budget executional data that presents the Government of Greece and it's the one that delivers us. And so I understand that these are official data and that data I am sending. And, look, Counselor, I ask you, please, did you tell me: is it a transparency sample that we come here today without having that ghost report of which we only know a press release? Please tell me. And you've also told me: is it a transparency that the Atriga activity report for the year 2020 you refer to and the data you're talking about are not hanging on the website and that the opposition groups don't have them? Tell me, please! [[Applause]] Answer me! I don't care what AIREF says, he's talking about making budgets. [[Applause]] That doesn't mean you're transparent in everything else. And what we ask you to do is that when you come here we should have a rigorous and serious debate. And I've told you before, this isn't a community of owners, it's an autonomous community, and therefore they have an obligation to deliver to us the documents and reports on which we are going to discuss in this plenary session of this Parliament in Galicia. Well, following the data I was showing you before and I therefore contradicted -- unless that budget execution presented to us by the Greek Government is wrong or wrong, and I don't argue that I'm wrong and that, of course, there might be some mistake, I'm not arguing -- because I quite contradicted the statements you made here and the press notes of that, I insist, I report ghosts about what we know. And, look, I'm going to talk to you about education, because I'm going to break down the budgets in education too. The recognized obligations exceeded the appropriations originally set out in EUR 108.5 million, so in any case the effort of the Galician Union would be talking about 15 million, since EUR 93 million was already brought by the Government of the State. And if we add that difference of 4 million in health plus 15 million in education, because it gives us 19 million euros of additional effort from Galician Union. So where are the remaining 71 million to get to those 90 million euros, Counselor? And it is their budgetary execution, the execution that you present; and therefore where are they? Tell me. But, look, the Political Watch Foundation has released a report stating that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has been to which less money collected has been allocated for the recruitment of teachers, one of the most important issues in education in our autonomous community. Literally stating that Galicia was the lowest in all autonomous communities, in particular 29.79% of the fund covered, less than half of the state average. You too, Counsellor, point out in that note to the propaganda report of these EUR 629 million that allocated EUR 53.7 million to employment. But the truth is, I think you're hurting your accounts again because, look, the state transferred you to employment policies of EUR 167 million. And if we're going to see the obligations recognised with respect to the appropriations initially given, it turns out that you didn't even execute the whole, since you executed 2.5 million euros less, 2.5 million euros less. And of the total outstanding appropriations, which reached EUR 407 million, you left out of running EUR 135 million for employment policies by 2020, EUR 135 million, so don't tell us that the accounts you made a great effort. And besides, look, Counselor, the number of busy people in our country doesn't justify you leaving 135 million euros unexecuted. Because if we compare the data in the quarter of 2019 with 2009 -- and I'm talking about 2019 -- we're talking about that in Galicia there were 46,200 fewer busy, less! And if we talk about the fourth quarter of 2020, because there are 61,300 less busy, less! Therefore, you do not have any justification left without execution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u39	...135 million euros. And, look, as much as they like or are disgusted, and I think it's a great news that the government of Pedro Sanchez, the government of the state in 2020, had placed resources for nobody to stay behind. And also in Galicia, 7.095 million euros for self-employed people and companies affected by the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. More than 207,000 Welsh and Welsh were at some point under the protection of an ERTE in 2020, and we are talking about €570 million; €286.5 million in benefits for self-employed and 95,938 persons benefited.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u41	I'm done, Mr. President. E 23,775 minimum living income benefits until December 2020, 13,403 adults and 10,372 minors. I ask you again, Counselor, can you continue to say that the Galician Union has spent everything necessary to meet the whole pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u43	As soon as they helped the Town Councils, those who did have obligations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u45	...to prevent the crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u47	How soon did they help the self-employed and the companies that are worse off?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u48	Thank you, Rodríguez Rumbo. We're going to be very busy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u49	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u50	Thank you. Overwhelmed I mean we're going bad weather, not about time. No, no, I say we're bad weather. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't say anything... and then we'll see how the day goes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u51	Thank you, President. Well, I wanted to start, so they wouldn't say we don't appreciate it when the Government answers, thanking Mr. Valeriano Martínez for solving the mystery of his press release. The data I was referring to that they didn't account was that detail that appeared in his press release and that you also literally quoted here. Because it's an example, it's a symptom of the biggest problem, you understand that where we want to put the accent, it's not really serious to come up with a debate on these features with only reference to those four data from a press release that doesn't even add up. Now let's solve the mystery. But yet we understand that this must have a deeper debate, because it will agree with me that, if we go to the difference between the initial appropriations of budgets and the vigorants, there is a substantial difference. A difference that we understand, we're in an extraordinary context and in a context like this is the moment when a Government must derive from extraordinary and debt expenses. But the point is that it seems to us that the formulation that you make of the 629 million and that they don't explain exactly how they come to this conclusion is quite simplistic. As a matter of fact, then what happens is that the Socialist Party comes here and says, "Who has even been left with what the state has transferred?" So we would be grateful that the debate was a little deeper and that the report should be sent back to us in order to be able to do the control work because, indeed, it is said that they compete for the Economic Vice-Presidentship, for example, 11 million and peak, and then the rescue plans already have more than 100 million, because from then on there is a dissonance that we understand there are issues that we should be attributing as a cost-covid. Anyway, thank you for the answer. And to me, what the world seemed to me in reverse is precisely that the information is no longer detailed on a matter of respect for this Parliament. In any case, going to specific issues. You welcome us, Mr. Martínez, I don't know exactly what. Since the People's Party of Galicia ruled Pedro Sánchez he has discovered that this was a historic autonomous community that could get its chest out of self-government, and now I don't know very well what it's doing to this tirapux that doesn't make much sense. You set the example of IVE. Mr. Martínez, it was the BNG who had been insisting on active and passively to the Board that the way of negotiation with the State was nowhere, that they went to the courts. You had to convince them to go to the courts! Well, actually, it seems to me to be a positive news that in November -- as stated in the information they sent us from article 9 -- they finally filed that claim, and I hope it comes in favor of Galicia. But do you learn the lesson, is that where Mr. Sánchez was being trusted, were you, or was Mr. Casado not leaving them? We don't know very well which of them was the explanation; but, in any case, we understand that this was a step that had to have taken long ago. If they hadn't dealt with artificial notification to the State, they could have submitted it before the alarm status and probably as it was already resolved. So everyone, Mr. Martínez, hold on to your candle. I would also ask you to pay attention a little more when you hear Mrs. Pontón, that you bother to put your ear a little bit. I know they don't interiorize, that you have to deal with the opposition that he said here that he comes in through one ear and gets out of the other. But listen a little bit because you'll see that what the Galician Nationalist Block does is perfectly coherent, defending Galician interests in front of the state and criticizing the pen weight of the president of Galician Union, who is increasingly being verified. [[Applause]] There was this when you were ruling in the state, but, of course, the bottom line is that you get very brave with Mr. Sánchez, and we welcome him as soon as we see the Government of Greece standing in arrogance in the defence of the interests of this country. [[Applause]] But if you were ruling, you'd do the same thing or worse, that's the bottom line, because when Galicia goes wrong, it's when we depend on state forces. Then you come here again, because you have to fill up, from that bottom consensus that is neither consensus nor 115 million for the Commission, because you know that consensus fund has more agents in the middle. In any case, if there's no consensus there is because you don't want to, it's you who don't want to consensualize such important issues as a new model of residence. So there's the ball on your roof. Mr. Martínez, I know you like to create an archetype of unpromotive and undialogative opposition, but the ball is on your roof. Also, by adding some of the issues you put on the table, I haven't had time to talk about the debt on the previous shift. Look, the question is that since you've been in government, you've tripled the debt of this country, but in return, we've come to this pandemic with a lot of weaknesses in public services, and that's what we're criticizing about debt. Because the question is, at an extraordinary moment like this, because you probably have to subscribe more debt. But the question is why has the previously subscribed debt been used and that our finances have already been mortgaged? We therefore have the substantive debate on this issue. And, finally, because time is running out, Mr. Santalices has already repressed us a little preventively, in a way of conclusion, I sincerely, Mr. Martínez, thank you every time he comes to come. It seems to us that this is an important part of the Government, which sometimes goes unnoticed every day, but, frankly, we have the impression that there is no will to learn any lesson in the pandemic of the Welsh Government. We insist, we must go to a reorientation of how public resources are used in this country, we must reordinate public services and blisters, we must bet on that line to overcome the twelve years of Mr. Feijóo's Government and the impact of the previous crisis that is being noticed and much in this. We must go to a new economic model with regard to productive systems and we must also take a step forward in the self-government and financial sovereignty of this country. And that's not gonna come from artificial statements you make in this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u53	...but they take these negotiations seriously for a new financing system, which have a position on tax changes and also make a new fiscal framework within the issues that are within their competence. That'll be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u55	...how we can have more resources to face challenges that -- that we agreed -- do not end either by 2020 or by 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u57	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u59	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the debate is basically over. I think it was clear, above all not so much by the intervention of the adviser, but by the other two interventions of the opposition groups that it is clear that it is difficult to question an execution of the expense where Galicia is the most investor community, where Galicia is the fastest-paid community to the suppliers, where Galicia met the deficit but did not overcome by 0.1, and also made a good execution of the expenditure. And by the way, I want to because nobody said it, I want to ask the advisor to congratulate the public officials. It is because we are forgetting that the execution of the expenditure and all the administrative procedures of the expenditure have been made in a situation of confinement and with telework and in very difficult circumstances. And, therefore, it was an exemplary work not only of the political leadership of the council, but of the officers of the council. [[Applause]] What would be important in the way of conclusion is trying to reach some future conclusion, in the future because, first of all, I believe that what depends on Galicia after the counsellor's intervention allows us to be more optimistic. For example, the issue of debt is very important. It's no less than Galicia has a debt situation that is overcome only by the communities of the Basque Country in relation to GDP, the Basque Country, Madrid, the Canary Islands and Navarre, which is practically the same as us, which are the two outlying communities, which has a special regime, and Madrid, which obviously has a general income that allows you to have a different situation. But we are the autonomous community that therefore has more reaction capacity for the future. We did it without added tax pressure, no one talked about tax pressure. I would also like to congratulate the advisor not only on delays, but also on having a fiscal pressure that allows society to recover better by facilitating successions, heritage transmissions, rural investments. And for the future, on the other hand, where there is more risk, it's not strictly up to us. I think the advisor argues, he has already argued more often, that the allocation of funds is being regressive. I mean, it's more beneficial for communities that have the highest per capita income and it's detrimental to communities that have the lowest per capita income. And that generates the figure of EUR 660 million in relation to Galicia of the funds we already know in 2020 and 2021. I praised the ERTEs, I praised Europe because it allowed its funding, I commended the Government of Spain to make decisions on how to maintain the spending of autonomous communities. But I think, Mrs. Rumbo, Mrs. Martínez Rumbo, that if you saw that the ERTEs in Galicia pay 30% less than the rest of the country, just because they're ERTEs of Greek workers, would you say something? No, ERTS are usually divided depending on the situation of companies. However, with the funds, that's happening. It's happening that with some exception, as the counselor said, most people end up harming Galicia and end up harming Galicia besides having a per capita income lower than the average; that is, because they're working regressively. The second question, which has not been discussed and which I think also generates uncertainty for the future, is of the negative liquidations that will come within two years. Mrs. Presas said why we are now changing our attitude. Well, to start with, for example, negative liquidations, what left us PSOE was to return them in five years. Thanks to the government of the PP; no, they were less than 5, even, which then extended it to 5, to 10, and to 20 years, right? There was a good behaviour of the Government of Mariano Rajoy from the financial point of view with the negative liquidations. Now there will come huge negative liquidations. I trust there's sensitivity there just like the People's Party had. But it's just that the People's Party didn't take us off a monthly IVE, nor did it stop paying us compensation for having complied with the rules of spending, nor at any time did he do anything to harm Galicia, which here has happened. The problem is, therefore, that we are defending Galicia and I have to admit that at times we meet with the Block there, not with the Socialist Party. The advisor may not agree, but in 2019 we had a last debate on the State of Autonomy. And the People's Parliamentary Group has brought to the House for its debate and voting a proposal to return the VAT, along with the other figures that the Government of Spain owes to us. The result of the vote was that he voted in favour of the People's Party, who voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block, who voted in favour of what was the division of Podemos and the Tides in the Mixed Group, and who abstained from the Podemos Group and the Socialist Group. Well, this is the attitude we don't understand that it's from receipt, because we finally had to go to justice to give us the reason, because they'll probably give us the reason. You can't abstain from these issues, you have a huge responsibility because it's your government in Madrid. And surely we're going to practice dialogue, we're not going to the courts of the first, as Mrs. Bloc said, that's institutional loyalty. Request, make a request in writing and, when that requirement is refused, submit the resource. But they think that when the channels of communication and dialogue that are laid down in the rules fail, when institutional loyalty fails, the speech that will end up arresting is what a member of your group recently called delirium independenceists. I think it is worthwhile for you to change your attitude and assume that our main duty is to defend Galicia, and Galicia's defence in the financial field is to defend that Galicia is given what it is in European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u60	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closing shift of this appearance, the Town Councillor and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u61	Thank you again, Mr. President. As well as trying to be agile, although it's good that we also devote time to tax and financial matters in the House, so they mean not so much because they're first, second, third, in a ranking. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I think this government, as I told you, is always against the white in terms of transparency. Theme number 2: When you talk about certain reports of the recruitment of teachers in Galicia, is it not that it has grown less because it turns out that it was the one that was less bad before? For many years our teaching staff in general is in the first places in Galicia. The same goes for health care when you criticize one side and the other. For twelve years it has been much what this Government has done in public services despite the catastrophic messages which, in many phases, both one group and another have done in this House and in the media and which, however, did not reach the Greeks and the Greeks. Because if they have been aware of the quality of public services that we have to settle, first and foremost, in the human resources we have, human resources; people who work, public employees with different statutes, well officials, statutaries, labor, but who work in the competences of the autonomous community, who are the real support of an advanced society in public services, we have, and that it is always possible to improve. That's why some ratios say we're the ones we're the least grown because we've done it before. The same happened in health expenditure, for example, I collect and social last year when you compare it and look at the side of other autonomous communities where to spend it. In the field of employment. In terms of employment, it was a classic and I was missing, because I have here to review and when, look at the criticism of the execution of the employment budget. I'll give you only three brushes. Look, the comparison with the rest of the autonomous communities. Galicia was the first autonomous community in number of aid published, 82, followed by Castela-León, 60, and Madrid, 54. In terms of budgeting applied in 2020 employment aid in Galicia was the third place, with 2.05 %, only behind Extreme 3.14 and Basque Country 2.09. And the Junta has reached the third place by investment by population average stop between January and October, with a per person stop investment of 1,346.47 euros, only behind Euskadi, 1,822, and Extremeura, 1,554. From there put her second name, third or fourth. Just one question, Mrs. Presas, that was very constructive and if so, as sometimes the Block is, the bad thing is that then they forget from week to week, in that aspect they are very constant in their origins but in some matters then they weaken a little. What if I miss you is in your mouth, because if I get to use it I'd already, well, uf! Call President Feijóo pen weight. I'm not doing a trial of value, I say the criterion of this boxing, because if Feijóo is a weight pen, the Block, let's go, no fly. No fly, no fly. [[Laughter]] It must not be such a lynx either. [[Applause]] If Feijó is a feather weight, the Block neither flies, nor flies, nor flies. By the way, in the matter of European funds, it would be good if we agreed to try to reach the autonomous community, which is good enough for you, because they will perhaps be the main conditioner of what society we could be in the next decade, at least in the next decade, would be good. But in essence it would also be good that certain origins and veheties that up to today have in their parliamentary group were left apart. Because the maximum of your group as far as I know is that Europe that, let's go, that of Europe nothing. For if you have nothing in Europe, you will already come to tell me certain questions. And it's good to remember what the Block meant in these 40 or 50 years about that point, like others, like the one about the coupon too, when you talk about the financing system and everything else, but, well, we'll keep talking about everything you want. We just discussed the closure of the most complicated exercise -- believe me -- of the history of autonomy. Since a few months from the beginning of the year, in March, we were forced to reorient it to, on the one hand, fight the pandemic and, on the other, -- parallelly --, empower and expedite budgetary mechanisms to help both families and businesses. And with all the difficulties I think the closure finds two very important points. First of all, the German Government has spent everything it needs to meet extraordinary needs, 629 million euros with an additional effort from the autonomous community, see where you look, of 90 million euros. And he did so by maintaining his usual strengths, leading the investor effort in Spain, paying more than anyone to guarantee the liquidity of our suppliers, controlling the deficit and debt in a responsible way and expediting the payment of autonomous tax obligations. Once the year 2020 is closed, the immediate challenge is to finish controlling the pandemic, but already with an increasingly open economy to bring us closer to the highest normality possible. And with support in economic and social development to recover the productive tissue and to meet the needs that, as I said, deserve both our families and businesses. For that, I think we have a fundamental tool, which is the budget in force, designed as a matter of priority for these challenges. However, I reiterate that in order to ensure a cohesive exit from this crisis, it must change the attitude of the central government. Firstly, because their distributions are having discretionary and changing criteria and are becoming more and more distant from the system of self-financing. That they are seriously harming Galicia because it received 666 million euros less than it would meet the criteria agreed on in the Tax and Financial Policy Council. And secondly, because we fear that the Government of Spain intends to repeat this same discretion with the allocation of funds from the National Plan of Recovery, Transition and Resilience, which is what it has done since the beginning of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that with the support of all parliamentary groups we can show the central government that it must change its position to have real co-governance. We're not part of the central government. We must avoid discrimination between autonomous communities and, as an autonomous community, we should be able to access all the resources made available by the European Union on equal terms. We're not asking anymore, after we've been penalized in those 666 million euros. Let us be practical and useful, let us agree on what we can agree on, starting with the committee that we have set up in this Parliament and make us strong because, if not, difficult times come for the next decade and not for what we are doing about theirs. Let us be careful about the year ahead of that settlement that is missing, the 2020 settlement, which will be effective in 2022, within a year, but also what may be settlement number 23. We know how to share what we have in common, because we will be grateful who has to thank us, who are the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u62	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with the third point of the agenda, motions. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María González Albert, on the performances that must be carried out by the German Government in connection with the new eucalyptus plantations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u63	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Martín Seco García, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this motion:Amendment of amendmentProposed a new wording for point 4 of the resolution of the initiative."14. Prioritize the development and implementation of the PRFs (Forest Resources Management Plans) of all forest districts in this legislation, with the following criteria:a. Real sustainable forest management, which establishes forest management models throughout the territory. Even so, the development of forest management tools for each owner or manager in which production, social and environmental criteria are combined, so that all owners carry out a true sustainable forest management.b. Integration of forest activity with the rest of rural activities, eliminating cross-sectoral confrontations and where forest is the basis for the development of livestock and agriculture.c. Territorial balance, to establish the plantations of species throughout the territory of Galicia, breaking the monoculture of certain species in some districts and the impossibility of planting these same species in others."]] To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. I wanted to talk to you today about a man, a psychiatrist, an Austrian psychiatrist and neurologist Viktor Frankl. This man who survived the Nazi concentration camps developed, or rather defined, a technique, the conductist technique called reverse psychology. And what does this technique consist of, because in modifying a person's conduct to change his position, making him think he believes something he doesn't really need. I mean, and reducing it to very basic, if we want someone to do action A, we're going to tell them to do B to finally do A, that it'll always be much better justified than B. The basis of this question is the use of reactance, that motivational psychological principle that naturally makes us seek to defend our freedom and, therefore, to reveal ourselves against the norms that suppress us. And this, brought to our attention, is so simple, so simple, as the councillor of the Middle Rural makes public statements announcing and repeating for two months that he will ban the new eucalyptus plantations in order to make all the owners of the mountain irremediable and urgently to plant this species. As I say, reverse psychology and, in addition, linked to the principle of prohibition. So, ever since the counsellor's mouth came out the word moratorium, he started a career in this country, a background race by eucalyptus plantation on every square metre of surface suitable for that, and I'm made to say that I'm fit, that I'm not legal. And here's everything, cutting down pine trees that didn't fit the crop shift, continuing to plant as it was already being done in eminently agricultural areas, in areas that up to today were quite flat, in areas of Natura Network, everywhere. It is all worth, I say, in view of the promise of the economic profitability of the eucalyptus and the wish that any other kind of land use is doomed to economic loss and scarce return. And this race without brakes for new eucalyptus plantations of this effect we have been warning the BNG for over a month, but not only at the BNG, as I said the other day: media, trade unions, logging groups, ecological associations, forest technicians, living technicians, and even now you have just added the large multinationals of the sector that have been alerted and noticed this eucalyptizing boom that is so huge that even Galician Television itself has been forced to echo itself, that is, in a telexornal, it wasn't just that there was some call for repression. And what do you do while you counsel her? Counsellors continue to deny the major and look to the other side. In the words of the counselor, the other day "there is no tangible evidence of an effect called." I don't know what else to talk about on behalf of the People's Party, I don't know if they're going to come out with this argumentative line, which to us is absolutely indecent, or if they're going to respect a little bit the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks. At the BNG we don't say that eucalyptus is bad in itself, there are no good or bad forest species, and this species, of course, has an important role in the forest development of our country. What there is is a good or bad forest management, and here is what there is, what there is in this country is a bad forest management that basically consists of the total absence of management. And let it go for the rest of your life, you do, that so good political proceeds have given this country to the People's Party and that so devastating has been for Galicia's future hopes. [[Applause]] The problem is that forest management cannot be a short-term issue, decisions made in the forest world, as you know, are future decisions that have long-term effects. We're here today talking about a moratorium, we've been doing it for several months, when we all know that this moratorium doesn't really exist. You underestimate this country again and despise your ability to interpret reality. They think that with a press headline people are going to close their eyes to a situation of uncontrolledness that with the conceptiveness and guidance, as I said the other day, of Galician Union itself, if you're living. But we're going to talk a little bit about his publicity campaign, this eucalyptus moratorium, that moratorium they announced in the press, and which, they say, is planned to extend until December 2025. That moratorium that the counsellor had here the other day the boldness to say that the BNG voted against when the Forest Plan was debated, when it wasn't even voting; again causing confusion in the country. And I invite any of you, from all groups, to review the self-amendment made by the People's Party to the Land Recovery Act and to find there the word moratorium. I'm telling you, they're not going to locate her, because what does this approach really say about the People's Party? Well, he basically says three things: First, that the restockings with Eucalyptus species that are contemplated in the management plans, whether they are in force or if they are being processed, if they can continue to be done; that is, what makes this bad so-called moratorium is to legalize in practice all those eucalyptus plantations that have so far been illegally made, or at least irregularly, in agricultural lands, in gainful lands, in environmental protection figures, etc. Second, that in those parts of the mountain where the dominant species is the eucalyptus, the headlines can plant other forest species and move that same area of eucalyptal to another place on the mountain; that is, this evil word moratorium, as I say, does not reduce neither here the planting surface on the Greek mountain, but what it does is to change the eucalyptus plantations from place. And thirdly, in those mountains where the surface of eucalyptus exceeds 50%, the remaining forest species can be eliminated and the entire surface of eucalyptus can be reforested. So also this so-called moratorium is not that it eliminates or reduces the surface of eucalyptus, but what it does is to eliminate or reduce the surface of other forest species in favor of the latter. The current occupation of the Greek mountain by the species of eucalyptus, as planned in Galicia's First Forest Plan, which has now been replaced by this first revision, exceeds to today some 400,000 hectares what was planned according to the most conservative estimates, and what you are doing with this proposal and with the set of the Land Recovery Act is to give this quantity the letter of nature. The councilman said here the other day something that seemed tremendous to me, it seemed to me a boutade, he despised the figure of about 600,000 hectares that we gave and said, I'm going to quote, "that we could talk about 400,000 like talking about 600, 700,000 or a million because you already put the same." One thing that personally seems to me to be a frivolity, which is absolutely inappropriate for the highest responsibility for this country's forestry policy, and of which, in addition, you will certainly have to desiccate when you finally publish the continuous inventory of Greek. In the end for us, what is the important thing here, what are we debating in this motion? So we're debating whether the Galician mountain tends to be a space devoted almost exclusively to low-quality forest production or whether we consider that there are other uses that bring added value and social wealth. What's not to be received for us is that the official position of the Galician Union is the one reported here by the Middle Rural Counsellor at the last plenary session. And I quote again, "that the diagnosis of the mountain is consistent with the forest sector at the Galician Forest Council." And probably in this statement lies much of the evils of our mountain, because since the BNG we will not tire of pointing out that mountain politics in this country has to go far beyond forest policy. Forest politics is a part, an important part, yes, but it can't be the only face of mountain politics. The interests of the forest sector, important, I repeat, are not the only ones that must dominate, more when they fill their mouths with multifunctionality, biodiversity, sustainability; and we ask again how do these three nouns conjugate with the monoculture of eucalyptus? They can't. [[Applause]] In any case, we need long-term planning, which is part of society, and we also say this in the debate on the Forest Plan. There are not only forest uses on the mountain; there are agricultural uses; there are livestock uses; there are spaces that require environmental protection; there are important cultural and heritage values to preserve; there are mycotoxic uses; there are social uses, sports, educational activities; we could follow ad infinitum. All these interests must be placed on the table and valued on an equal footing so that our territory will recover wealth and gain in resilience, another word of which many like, but which then never intend to put into practice. We talked about fifteen days ago that we could already certify the increase in legal and illegal plantations in areas where eucalyptus could no longer be planted today, as in plots of leafy, in protected natural spaces, and even in agricultural lands, produced since the counsellor's announcement. We were also talking that in the opposite sense we had not detected parallelly an intensification of the control and follow-up tasks of these illegal plantations on the part of the Union, nor even a reinforcement of resources for this purpose, with the branch of enforcement and claiming a replacement of it on plots that were irregularly forested, which would be logical. And if that's what we said two weeks ago, you can imagine that at the moment the situation just made it worse. In any case, we've already checked it the other day in our appeal to the advisor, and that the Galician Union is going to make deaf ears to any kind of argument related to conservationism, environmental protection, biodiversity, multifunctionality or directly to legality. So I'm going to try to prove with another argument that you usually seem to understand better, which is that of economic profitability. Because I wanted to ask them why they resign themselves to low-quality forest production, why do they conform to not generating added value here, don't you think we have to change course so there's a correspondence between the millions of tons that we cut each year in our country and the turnover that the sector has in our gross domestic product? Don't you have any repairs to the possibility of a crack in the sector? In the face of this chronicle of an announced death that is alerting us from different areas? And I'm not going to have an impact on what I said the other day, because it's still known. There are no plants in the nursery; Finsa has even acknowledged an exponential increase in the entrance of pine trees of a smaller caliber; environmental associations continue to receive dozens of complaints; the wood cluster certifys the trend, forest associations speak of an indiscriminate size of pine trees and even there are those who, El Progreso de Lugo the other day, marked this holder because he said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u66	... -- I'm gonna finish -- "They're tearing us to pieces." It was a literal phrase of a Mondoñedo vivarist. We in this motion propose four points in agreement: to put in place extraordinary mechanisms of precise control at this moment of called effect; to take necessary means to protect surfaces that do not have to be forested; also to establish the necessary measures to paralyze illegal plantations and restore legality; and to develop a law of management of eucalyptus masses that, among other things and as a starting point, integrates the removal of eucalyptus masses into agricultural areas, environmental protection and coastal forests; removal of eucalyptus from mixed forest surfaces and management and management, management and management of eucalyptal farms ensuring sustainable management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u67	Thank you, Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u68	This proposal -- I'm finished now -- sets out basic issues that for us, I repeat, must be a starting point to put an end to this absolute lack of control and lay the foundations for a genuine regulation of the eucalyptus in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u69	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u70	Thank you, President. I wanted to start with a reflection. Last Friday in an electoral debate on the radio we saw the hardest face of the extreme right of this country, unable to condemn the death threats received by the Minister of the Interior, the director of the Civil Guard and the candidate of the United Nations We can go to the presidency of the Madrid Community, questioning the truth of these threats and inviting the candidate to leave not only the debate, but also to leave politics and Madrid. I thought it was lucky that the far right had no representation in the Galician Parliament, what I didn't know was that he was still in the ranks of the People's Party, who asked the most elected candidate to the mayor of Ourense to abandon politics with tics proper to his own fascism, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u71	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u72	All my support to Rafa Villarino...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u73	To the point. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u74	...who has the only sin of being an honest and decent politician...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u75	Quiet, please! On this issue, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u76	Mr President, I ask for the same treatment you have given in the plenary before the members of the People's Party who have come here to talk about another question which is not the one I was debating. I'm asking for the same deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u77	And I've already given you a minute on a subject that has nothing to do with what you're debating. Now I beg you to go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u78	I hope you do it with the People's Party too when you do what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u79	I'm usually at that... thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u80	...I only ask you to face the blackmail of Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Baltar, democracy. Rectify now, gentlemen of the People's Party
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u81	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u82	Getting into the motion presented by the nationalist group on the moratorium of the eucalyptus and the problems that are causing the irresponsible announcement made by the adviser himself from this same stage, how is it possible to present an initiative of such importance and impact that thus contradicts the Forest Plan that they are presenting? Why do you treat the forest sector with such contempt, gentlemen of the People's Party? You who were angry that they had agreed to the forest plan with the sector, that they had taken into account the participation of all those involved, it turns out that it was so good, so good the forest plan that the first thing they do after approval is to throw it into a trash bin. Why? What's the reason for that? A new occurrence of the Middle Rural Council, with which it now presents itself as environmental defenders and biodiversity at the same time as the major defenders of forest owners and the large forest industry. Come on, the People's Party is like the balm of Fierabrás, the remedy for all evil. But once again its occurrences bring serious consequences to our forest. Let's go to which was the message of the People's Party's Government, especially that of Mr Feijóo, after the Board of Trustees. Tell us, "we announced the temporary suspension of eucalyptus plantations in Galicia, a decision planned, meditated and contrasted with the sector. A decision we make with different variables and different forecasts." Take it now! If you've been in agreement with the sector, tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why didn't it appear on the Galician Forest Plan, because they expected a 3% increase in the first five years. What are we left with? What was the consensus, the forest plan or the moratorium or are they taking the hair absolutely to everyone? [[Applause]] It says Feijóo that it is a thoughtful and pondered decision with different variables and predictions. But where are they? What were they waiting for? The message that the President of the Union gave was clear and clear. I tell the citizenry: what you have planted Eucalyptus will still be able to plant eucalyptus, and what not, what alternatives are offered to you, gentlemen of the People's Party? Nothing, absolutely nothing. The real abandonment. So what did the People's Party expect, that there was no reaction to the announcement. If the president sends a message to the citizenship saying now or never, transmitting that eucalyptus plantation is going to be banned, but they don't say when or how, what do they think would happen? Planned, thought and pondered, Feijóo said. The mayors of the counties of Castroverde and Friol, of different political signs but concerned about our rural areas, who don't know what kind of advisers you have in the government. The results there are, all a success the effect called. Great summons power of Mr. Feijóo, you must admit it. The president of the Union entering the homes of all the Greeks on prime time in the media, without interruptions or interpretations saying: "Quickly and plant already all the eucalyptus you wish, before we forbid it for those who have not been sighted and have done so in time." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there are the results that you try to hide, but that you only have to go out for a ride through our mountains, visit a nursery or talk to a carpenter; your ad in a different way, made the supplies of eucalyptus exhausted in the living Greeks, and that the Madeirans are unable to cut all the pines that offer the owners with the only condition of cutting it in the shortest possible time and consequently with a significant depreciation. The reforestation companies are overwhelmed, working day and night and being unable to meet the demand of the owners to plant, and with problems in order to get plant in the German nursery, having to resort to other regions without the appropriate guarantees. How can this type of intervention be done in such an important sector as that of wood, in a harsh moment of crisis, causing a strong depreciation of the pine tree when the owners need more than ever the resources from the mountain? Who is benefiting from these performances, People's Party gentlemen? What's the price you're paying the pine industry? They should answer this. It's not worth saying that according to your data nothing happens, as they said the other day. They have to be aware of their irresponsibility and uncontrollability to many people who are losing a lot because of their occurrences. From the Socialist Party we agree with the first three parts of the BNG motion, calling for a brake on this uncontrolled plantation, but we understand that the solution of the Greek mountain is not in a law on the masses of eucalyptus, which is already legislated. We propose to act on four axes. First, compliance with the law and planning. There are acts that are within the law that must be supported and empowered and others that are outside the law that must be watched and punished. If the People's Party had complied with and enforced the law, over the years leading up to the Government, we would not have come to this situation: a monoculture of eucalyptus, which accounts for 97% of the surface of the mountain in many municipalities of Galicia, due to its negligent performance for not putting measures to prevent it. When they presented the Galician Forest Plan, from the Socialist Party, we told them why it was not done well, voting already knew but gave them exactly the same. That's why they send it to the trash the next day. A realistic forest plan must be drawn up, established in the sector, in the territory and in society. To do this, you have to get to work, counting on everybody, thinking about everyone and not just a few, presenting a real plan that technically, economically, socially and environmentally is sustainable, and thought of for the future, not a sheet of distribution of public funds among a few privileged. Since 2003, with the State Mountain Law there is a normative figure called PORF, don't I know if it's alone? Do you know what it is, gentlemen of the People's Party? Apparently not, they're the forest resource management plans, I'm going to explain it very easily to those who don't know. Just as there are the PXOMs, the general urban management plans, they are the instrument that the municipalities have to regulate what can be done or can't be done in every plot of their municipality; for PORFs are the same but in the forest field. With the development and approval of the PORTs in each of the districts of Galicia, they could correct the outcome we have today and which will continue to increase if they continue on the same path. The second axis we present is sustainable forest management, not as an expression to appear in document titles or presentations. This implies a determined political action that poses a model based on reality, but with the commitment of the whole territory and the entire population in rights and obligations. In an area it cannot be allowed to concentrate all forest production, while in another large area it is subject to the obligation to provide natural values without any kind of economic compensation, to have as a result an average, and thus does not work. What do we propose? Parallel to the development of these PORFs that he said earlier, to set up individual forest management models or by forest manager. These are the real instruments in which the forest sector is established. This is a plan that regulates what a manager can or cannot do on all his parcels. The management unit may not be the plot, but must be the manager himself; and thus, the management unit will have to assign parcels to the production and parcels to the conservation. This is no less than to follow the same criteria that must be applied in agriculture and in the CAP. To do this would put us at the head of the European forest and as a true forest power, not the volume of eucalyptus that we produce every year, which better talks about us as if we were a colony of the 19th century. The third axis is what the mountain and the agriturismo have to look at and complement themselves, not be on the back and face, which is what the People's Party has achieved in these years. The mountain should serve as a basis for the development of the meat stock or certain activities linked to agriculture. And finally, the fourth axis, the territorial rebalancing. It must be broken by the three Forest Galicies, with a coastal strip with a monoculture serving an industrial oligopolie, another large area throughout the eastern and south-eastern desert mountain area, and the great central diagonal of Galicia, where the mountain is subjected to enormous conflict and insecurity, to establish the plantations of species throughout the territory of Greece, breaking the monoculture of certain species in some districts and the impossibility of planting these same species in others. I think the solution has to the People's Party simply by applying the law and making a sustainable forest management and forest management plans that are needed in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u83	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] I'm ordering a review, because sometimes in the debate one doesn't understand things as Members say. I'm ordering you to check if you've addressed this group by holding this group of fascists, because that... I'm asking you to review it, and if that's how you're paying attention to the dignity of this group and you're going to have to have it removed, and if you don't, you'd call the order. We're gonna be respectful of this, but first I'm gonna check it out, because I'm not sure, and when you're not sure what best you can do is test it. In any case, in this debate we will continue with that question, but that... No, I'm sorry, I'm gonna check, I haven't given you the floor yet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. Now I'm... I know what Mr. Orange said, now I'm at another point. That debate is closed. All right, now I'm on another question. And I didn't give you the word, you don't have it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We continue the debate. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u84	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. I cannot begin my intervention in any other way, recognizing the importance of the forest sector to our autonomous community, and in particular to the province I represent. I can't start otherwise without remembering that it represents nearly 2% of GDP, which creates more than 24,000 jobs, but I also want to address the more than 80,000 families that each year see how the eucalyptus generates more than 200 million euros, a supplement to their pensions, a complement to their family economies. We owe them all the important respect. I want to ask myself what they would think today when they heard some of the interventions that preceded me in the speech. One morning when we knew that the President of the Crown Parliament was jumping to the electoral scene to lead the Socialist Party, and, frankly, Mr. Seco, that I always tell you that in the debates I don't recognize it, I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised, because the fact is that in an initiative where an amendment would be analysed that regulates the planting of eucalyptus, probably the province whose least concern is Ourense. [[Applause]] And probably also if Ourense is quoted in his speech is because you, ultimately, to the Socialist Party when the performance begins, the least concerns you are the eucalyptus, the least concerns you are the economy of our Greeks and Greeks, what concerns you is the theatre. And I'm going to try not to deviate from this to talk about the important thing. [[Applause]] Look, with great calmness and respect that we deserve from our Greeks, and with sensitivity -- and I've already told you once again when we talk about the forest plan -- who knows what a blacksmith costs, not what we want to associate with the big multinationals, with the reality of our rural, and knowing and living in our rural area, I'm analyzing that initiative. Mrs. González Albert, I ask you with complete humility that, if you believe in this institution, if you really believe in the instruments that Parliament -- that I, as you know, am still landing and knowing it, but from the very beginning always respecting -- you should have the loyalty to withdraw it. We are currently in the process of negotiation, in a presentation where precisely this is one of the topics to be discussed, one of the topics to be agreed upon to improve; by the way, tended hands that I have offered on repeated occasions, and also counseling. Don't take it off just let me do two reflections. First of all, or don't trust the fellow who represents them in the presentation, that it probably isn't true; it's an amendment to the work of all the fellows who are in the presentation; or it just adds to that theatrical scenario that we've seen today, of course much more over-sensualized in the Socialist Party. But I also do two reflections at the bottom, because the two messages that you are giving in this non-law proposal are very dangerous. First of all, and allow me to read it, I'm not going to talk to you about investment psychology, I'm going to tell you what we have to talk about, which is the decision we have to make to regulate our mountain, and also talk clearly and with the message to those 80,000 families who try very hard to get the greatest profitability out of their mountain ferrets. Look, you're attacking the Greeks to be real non-fulfillers, and I can't let you. The Greeks are absolutely intelligent people, they're people who took care of their mountain, they're people who took care of their rural environment. You, not "how much worse you go to the People's Party better" often get confused. And these barbaric attacks that were dedicated to us in the first intervention, Mrs. González Albert, it's not against the People's Party, it's against the Greeks. But they also send another message that also seems very dangerous to me, they ask for control mechanisms to be put in place and they claim in an amazing way, with that laziness, that no one here controls anything. So to me, if you'll excuse me, it's much more dangerous the message you're giving yourself than anything they say impacting the moratorium. If you say that this is a banana republic and that everyone does what they want, one out of two, I don't believe it and, in addition, I correct that you're wrong and I ask them to recognize it. The Greeks are not illegal people, the Greeks comply with the rules, most of them comply with the rules. And they constantly get into contradictions: first they say that Galicia's population of eucalyptus is being populated following this moratorium; and, on the other hand, they say that there are no plants in the nursery. So, can you tell me how the Galician population of the eucalyptus is? [[Murmurs.]] Look, here at this moment on this initiative is not discussing the future of our mountain, that debate has already been held, it has been held in the Forest Plan. In the debate of the Forest Plan, the two opposition forces were invited to make decisions on the regulation of eucalyptus plantation. Look, you've already been reminded by the counsellor in his speech in the past plenary session, the Nationalist Block Galego has asked for moratoriums on eucalyptus plantations and even cited his own non-law proposal when he did so in 2020. We all agree that we need to protect the mountain from a monoculture, we all agree that we have to try to sell a certified wood -- more and more -- we all agree that we have to search for biodiversity. It's really reflections that we all agree with, but then at the time of truth you, instead of reaching your shoulder -- which I hear here many times and never so little loyalty found in negotiations -- really when it comes to reaching agreements, because some negotiations are that. There is no doubt that we start from different political projects, there is no doubt that we have different principles and values. But here we are to arrive at agreements that benefit the Greeks, and any agreement that goes through eradicating all Eucalyptus plantations in Galicia is a bad deal for the Greeks, it's bad for our economies, and you know it. That's why the ideal and the intelligent would be to come to an agreement so that the Greeks and the Greeks would be motivated, encouraged to get that use of the mountain to achieve those principles that I quoted. And, look, they always tell us that we're going against everyone, that we don't deal with anyone, they doubt all the negotiations we tell them to do. I've found many articles, because it's obvious that this decision was going to be transcendent and it's certainly going to be answered, but it's a brave decision. We say it here many times, I think our field needs brave decisions; and I think, you know, with correctness and mistakes, that I don't say we make everything perfect, but we go in the right line. We have an instrument that you have defined as a toolbox, which is the future law of recovery, which will allow us to put every thing in its place. We all agree that there is room in Galicia for everyone, because they help us build this Galicia. And as I don't have any more time and I like to be very respectful of that, they constantly quote you that we are alone. Sometimes when I hear them we're going on a highway in the opposite direction; you're the ones who know Galicia, you're the ones who talk to the Greeks, you're the ones who know all sectors... they're above good and evil. They read in the press what they're interested in, because I do wish they'd read the moratorium on eucalyptus plantations signed by Ramón Reimunde -- those we're from the Navy we know that it was never a person who militated in the People's Party, we're delighted that it joined, if it was the case -- but he spoke as Promagal's representative and president -- I say it to defend his independence --. And he clearly said that he accepted that regulation of rest with the genus of eucalyptus, a consequence of the forest plan, which was approved and where we collaborated -- first point first -- with the subsequent moratorium, to ban plantations of the variety of that species where it had not been planted before, but with some counterparts, making a positive contribution relationship -- as I invite them to do so -- but which recognizes two very important themes that you constantly question: one, which we do not talk to anyone, that we all approve of alone, and that everyone is against this moratorium. I think this document makes it perfectly clear that you are missing the truth. [[Applause]] And, in short, we are concerned about the future of the mountain, we are concerned about its sustainable development, we are concerned about building a better Galicia among all, where the forest sector has to have a very important part. And personally, I'm worried that you're able to join some of the law agreements, because I think you'll mark one before and one after. I'm still holding my hand without any accuracy. I think more than real perception today in the debate was a bit of a theater, or maybe looking for a smoke curtain to justify you coming down from what I think would be good for Galicia, the train of understanding, in this case in the primary sector, of what we all say we are very friends, but then we prove it by what we prove. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group. Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u86	Thank you, Mr. President, again. Mrs. Candia, do you know what Mr. Ramón Reimunde said in the Good Days program on Galician Television last day 16? -- I'm going to tell you the exact moment: at 10.51 o'clock in the morning -- : "All woodmakers are cutting down pine trees inside Lugo to put eucalyptus." This is what Mr. Ramón Reimunde said on Galician TV last day 16. Because it's a reality, it's just that to me what makes me hallucinate is that they have this ability to deny reality. [[Applause]] We are talking about an effect called obvious, everyone says it, the whole sector says it; there are those who say it in a positive way and there are those who say it in an unfavorable way. But denying evidence, which is that an effect called to me is driving me crazy. And I think it's interesting... of course, I started talking about reverse psychology, and so there was some basic mathematics. Because, of course, if everyone plants eucalyptus, there's no eucalyptus left in the nursery, because if there's a lot and people ask for more than there is then, of course, we're left without it, it's an obvious and basic thing. And I would ask them, really, to stop hiding in families continuously, in the 80,000 families that have eucalyptus planted, in the supplements of pensions to defend what they really defend, which are the interests of Ence. Because who's going to benefit from the price drop that's going to happen in eucalyptus wood within 10 years? [[Applause]] The obvious crack that will happen at the price of wood, who will benefit? To those 80,000 producers, to those 80,000 families? Obviously not. You told us we had to withdraw this motion because we're negotiating it in the gallery. Look, this is what we're proposing here -- which I interpret so that I think I'm right and that you're going to vote against -- just says that you comply with the law. It says it controls whether illegal plantations are made where they can't be done, whether they file and whether legality is restored -- that's what this motion asks for -- and, ultimately, that there is a regulation of the eucalyptus so that it doesn't happen what's happening. This is the same amendment that we intend to compromise in the bill, we do not change our opinion; we defend the same here today as there. And what I'm showing the People's Party is that it's in zero interest to reach agreements with the BNG at this point, as I'm afraid in many others of the law. And they talked about how we respect these families; to whom we must respect is the whole country, because the particular interests are very important, but above all forever -- and we always say it -- have to be the collective interests of the country, and that's what we're defending today here. And don't confuse yourself, whoever doesn't do it, whom we accuse of failing is not the people producing wood, we accuse you of violating the Board of Galicia, who is failing to carry out its management and government control work. Not the people who plant or stop planting, the Galician Union... - Sorry, I didn't listen --... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u87	No, shut up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u88	No, I didn't listen. If you wanted to tell me something, I'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u90	Okay. Who makes illegalities -- I repeat -- is Galician Union violating its role, not the people producing this country. Of course, you've talked about history. It is true that we presented an initiative asking for a moratorium, which was going on this same line of this motion to order the territory, not to sell it all to the monoculture of the eucalyptus. And when we talk about history, we also have to talk about the popular legislative initiative that was introduced in this Parliament by a number of entities, such as the Adega, as Fruga was, as was the CIG, as was the Galician Organization of Mountains in Common, and which was rejected -- I want to remember -- with the votes against the People's Party and with the abstention of the Socialist Party, and that as far as eucalyptus plantations were concerned, it was this: the gradual elimination of eucalyptus plantations in agricultural, agricultural, environmental protection figures and mixed masses. But, in any case, what process was followed by the German Government on this issue? First they announced a legislative action that doesn't exist -- it still doesn't exist today -- and that I also contradicted -- as the PSOE spokesperson said -- the regulated proposals that just presented in this case in the Forest Plan. Then, what this really means is an implicit recognition of the serious problem generated by his action, by the action or inaction of the Galician Union, the action of the Government for many years. You offer absolutely no alternative for the future, and the only one they propose, which was that 3% mini-reduction in the Forest Plan, was discredited by yourself, an absolutely insane issue. And in the end for the Union it seems that the policy of consummated facts is the only criterion of legality. What can't be, is that anyone who has already planted eucalyptus is the only criterion to be able to plant again, so that if you haven't done it today, you won't be able to do it in the future regardless of the features of the farm, the management plan and everything. That can't be. They also apply legislation with deferred effect, such as the dismissal of Mr. Bárcenas. And this I assumed, of course, this unprecedented fact; which is that of the inverse psychology that I was telling them -- is that I really, I don't know --... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u91	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u92	...which told them at first, that the owners understood that this was their last chance. The last opportunity to put into production plots and that has exhausted the plant of the farmers -- as I said before -- and that caused the Madeirans to fail to heed the requests, and that has already led to today's consequent depreciation of the wood. I'll finish. In short, what they achieved with this announcement in this way; in fact, they asked the counselor the other day if they thought that the way in which the announcement was made was good, if they noticed any problem in the way in which this measure was announced, and if they could have it in any other way that prevented this problem. And he said it seemed perfect to him. And all you've generated was uncontrolled, disconcerting, chaos and irreparable damage to the forest sector in the short, medium and long term. That's what they've provoked since Galician Union with this announcement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u93	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u94	No, we're not going to accept it because there are issues we share...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u96	...about everything that it has to do with the PORF. But we think it has a big impact on forestry as the main form of development of the territory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u98	...and it's not our model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u99	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. Thank you. Mr. Martín Seco, we're going to resolve the matter that we had pending before. I have literal transcription here, there's a direct allusion to this group where you compare it to a group that owns fascism. I ask you that this expression may be withdrawn. In any case, I understand that you don't want to call this group a fascist because we couldn't agree to that. So what I'm asking you to do is remove an expression that is collected here that does make an allusion to this group by calling it a group that is more similar to fascism. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Seco García asks for the floor.]] Yes, yes, you can. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u100	Mr. President, I didn't want to refer to the People's Party as a fascist party, or much less; what I said was that they were acting with tics most peculiar to pure fascism, I didn't call anyone fascist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u101	I ask you to remove the expression of "fascism." That expression is withdrawn. Thank you. We continue with the next motion. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, initiative of Mr. Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with school harassment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u102	Amendments have been tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G. G. P. P. People of Galicia, through its spokesor and at the initiative of Mr Ovidio Roder Roder Tato, in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the House's Rules of Procedure, presented before this Bureau the following amendment to this motion: Replacement Amendment:It must be replaced by its spokesman and at the initiative of Mr Ovidio Roder Roder Tato, at the heart of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the Rules of the Chamber, to this Bureau the following amendment to this motion: Replacement amendment:The text of the resolution must be replaced by the words of his spokesman and at the initiative of Mr Ovidio Rodacío Rodecerio Rodre Roder Rodrídío, at the following initiative of Mr. Rodrague Roile Rodio Rodago, in accordance with Article 151.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 151.2 and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the House of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the House of this Rule of this Rule of the Rules of this Rule of this Rule of the Rules of this Rule of the Rules of the following Article, the following Article of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the House of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the]] [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to this table the following amendment to this motion: AMENDMENT ON THE RESOLUTION OF THE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE APPLICATION OF THE EDUCATION OF THE EDUCATIONAL PROTOCOL FOR THE Prevention, Detection and Treatment of School and Cyberacoustic harassment, paragraphs 1, 4 and 5, which are to be amended: "1.- Develop a new Welsh approach to preventing school harassment on the rigorous analysis of information available in the guidance departments of the centres and in the provincial educational inspection services concerning the application of the Education Protocol for the prevention, detection and treatment of school harassment.4.- Strengthening the specific guidance teams with sufficient and duly trained in the treatment of school harassment, establishing immediate action mechanisms of such teams in this area.5]] To formulate the motion, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u103	Thank you, President. The motion that we present is born from the question of a proposal that we consider, and so we transmit it very concrete. A proposal which, on the one hand, had just been socialized with different agents involved in the fight against school harassment and which, on the other hand, also arose from an exercise of concretion and systematization of proposals with an absolutely constructive spirit, in a positive and open to debate and, why not, the agreement. So the first intention was to focus on a central, fundamental and extremely serious problem for the educational community with visions, proposals and so on that they didn't even constitute a vision, let's say, a subjective or exclusive perspective of the BNG. They were, let's say, approaches and proposals that were contemplated by such subversive or anti-systemal bodies as could be UNESCO, as can be the report and make the bold view of Amnesty International, as are the federations of ANPAS, psychologists, families, social educators and what we already believe is more defining the situation we had on the table. From the data that can be extracted in such a way, which can clearly be influenced by the Galician Board's own report on the Galician Strategy of School Cohabitation. And, therefore, we insist that with these vimbies we wanted to build a basket of agreements, because we understand that it is an objective and necessary demand as few of the educational community. The problem: with what we find ourselves in -- I have to say this because in addition to moving families to it when the debate was over -- it was with a new exercise of auto-bomb, self-competition and empty propaganda. So we made ourselves out of an interpellation, too, in a way, that this motion, which came to talk about issues such as the creation of a work table, among all of us here and many other agents, to address, to reach consensus, to reach agreements on school harassment, proposals as staff reinforcement and resources in the centres to address school harassment, proposals as the updating of the network of guidance teams, by the way, a demand that has been on the table for 20 years, the creation of a specialized unit at the Education Council, training plans, awareness-raising, that is, issues that are moving everyone and every day the agents who address these issues of school harassment. Well, we have done that from the literal transcription of the Education Counsellor to a reality like this, in the face of the suffering that are causing these issues in so many hundreds of families, literally so directly from the transcription, says the Education Counsellor, he begins his intervention: "I appreciate the opportunity this interpellation gives me to put in value the done by the Greek Government in relation to school harassment." Propaganda, propaganda and propaganda. In the face of the tragedy of families living away from finding consensus, agreements, making it available to work together, the Education Counsellor says he is grateful for the possibility of valorizing Galician board. [[Applause]] Not a single proposal, not a single data, not a single word about the UNESCO data we present. Not a single mention of the Amnesty International Report. And what gets us out of the joke is, I know, a new protocol against school harassment -- look at the subconscious, if you have to do a new equals is because implicitly you admit that the previous one didn't work -- of which there isn't even a published line, of which we don't know anything about that protocol at all. [[Applause]] When we have UNESCO data, 1 out of every 3 children, it's true that at the international level, they recognize school harassment. Amnesty International report, the detected data is just the tip of the iceberg. And the Board -- and I'm telling Together because much of that field work has been done in Galicia -- is not implementing the necessary measures. But, look, it's data we've brought here, too. The Welsh Strategy Report itself for school coexistence points out that 6%, there's an oscillation between 5.8% and 6.2% depending on whether it's compulsory or post-war education, but with an average of 6% they recognize having ever received school harassment. And that about an educational community of 250,000 students we're talking about 15,000. And, of course, if instead of analyzing data from the Board itself to motivate a reflection on a reality that is causing so much suffering, what we say is that we are going to value the role of the Board, to advertise a school harassment plan of what we have not known so far as a single line and of what there is no single consensus and a refusal to sit down and bring us all, which is what the educational community is demanding, because I think it is and a declaration of absolutely hopeless intentions. But it's a lot more, I think there's a question that already seems particularly serious, which is when I was talking about exaggeration. People's Party representatives are aware of how they can accommodate families who, in cases of school harassment, with the dramas behind them, are told that they are being over-exaggerated. Are you exaggerating UNESCO? Are you exaggerating the ANPAS? Are you exaggerating the Amnesty International Report? Are the psychologists exaggerating? Are you exaggerating families? Is that what the People's Party is telling the agents involved? [[Applause]] And, therefore, we believe that, in such matters, what we bring with this motion, and we really do not lose hope of continuing to work constructively, because we believe that an aspect like this good deserves, that we will not save even one of our efforts. The proposal is part of what is the situation we are currently in, why the protocols are failing and why so many agents are demanding it. First. Because the first step missing is the detection issues. We have not enabled sensitization mechanisms that allow students and families to have mechanisms to communicate these harassment cases efficiently and effectively. The next question is identification. You have difficulty in teaching, NPAS, in all educational community agents, precisely because there is also a charisma in training processes. Training processes that are essential in many cases to even discern what is harassment, as we said the other day, of what is not, a central and central issue. But then another of the problems that we have on the table is that of an absolutely paralyzing bureaucracy. A bureaucratization, but for us to get an idea, in the school harassment protocol, we're talking about 23 attachments. To start activating real and concrete measures, we must, on the one hand, identify the case, meeting with the victim, meeting with the families, meeting with the spectators, establishing precautionary measures, asking first an adscribed teacher, in many cases an adscript student; covering 23 reports, transferring those reports to the Inspectorate and that Inspection definitely takes action. It's been weeks and has an absolutely alarming deterrent effect on the student who, in the circumstances and acquaintances of this situation that don't solve his problems, logically don't find a confidence attitude in the administration and therefore systematically demand that we fail them. And the problems that this motivates, children who suffer in silence, who sometimes endure much longer than it would be desirable and of which it is arguable even in situations of violence and harassment that feel unprotected, and which is something that, besides, and so they are recognizing it, spoke to specialized psychologists the other day, which is an absolutely cross-sectional subject, is something that can happen to any of our children, who doesn't understand about classes or social differences. And, therefore, what we do and what we call this Parliament, in particular the group that supports the Government, is what we implement measures. I simply ask you to tell us which of the measures we have in our proposal do not agree with. They don't agree with awareness campaigns, they don't think they deserve an effort on that issue. They do not agree with drawing up training plans with special attention to families, centres, for such conduct to be recognized. They do not agree with strengthening staff and resources in the fight against school harassment, with specific splits, with the implementation of figures, such as social educators, psychologists and others, with the updating of guidance teams, with the creation of a telephone line of attention to school harassment. They also do not agree with the creation of a specialized unit to address these issues and to have a mechanism that guarantees any child who is in a situation of harassment. Each and every one of these proposals, which we insist on, are likely to be debated, are likely to be nuanced, to modify, to reach agreements. In which do they not agree that the government support group would not want to sit down and talk about how to address issues that are in reality in the centers? All of us here are and there are several of us who know what it's like to be in a classroom. We know that this is something that happens much more frequently than we can afford. And that as the Amnesty International Report itself says, the harassment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u105	...the harassment -- finished, president --, the low-intensity harassment, not even if you're detecting. I call a reflection on the group that supports the Government because we have two options: one, the first of the options, maintain the counselor's attitude and say that this is an exaggeration and use these issues to advertise; the other, meet the demands of the educational community, UNESCO, Amnesty International and, above all, meet the demands of so many children who don't deserve to go to school every day in fear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u107	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to begin my intervention by expressing our total rejection of the anti-democratic behaviour of the People's Party, which wants to drive out of political life the candidate who won the municipal elections in Ourense, Rafael Villarino. Faced with the blackmail of Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Baltar, democracy. Rectify now, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And we're going to talk about an extraordinarily relevant and worrying issue as is the phenomenon of school harassment. Indeed, in January 2019 UNESCO publishes a new report on violence and school harassment and recognizes that these are very important problems all over the world. And the publication of this report in 2019 presents the most up-to-date and complete data on violence and school harassment, and analyzes the prevalence and trends of the world and regions, the nature and impact of the question and the national responses that were satisfactory. And it also brings together, in addition, this is particularly important, quantitative and qualitative data from surveys worldwide in 144 countries and territories. And indeed, that report indicates that 1 out of 3 students was intimidated by their classmates at school at least once in the last month with regard to the survey, but we must not make it clear that this is a global data, as Mr. Lourenzo has just acknowledged. It is a global data as the report acknowledges on page 17, where it is also claimed that there are very significant differences in the prevalence and frequency of school harassment among regions, and that in Spain that prevalence has decreased between 2002 and 2014, as shown on page 23 of that report. And also that the prevalence of bullying cases in the Spanish state is 15.4%, far from that 32% global fortunately. What is also relevant in that report? Because in almost half of the countries and territories studied in 71 of them, intimidation has decreased as a result of a series of common success factors in implementation, in particular the commitment to promoting a school climate and a framework of safe and positive classes, effective systems for reporting and monitoring violence against students, programs and interventions based on empirical data, and this is what I believe is very important, training and support for teachers, support and guidance for students affected and empowerment and participation of students. In 2019, indeed, Amnesty International published another new report in which it gives other data substantially different from that published by UNESCO in that report, which is around 7.5 % of children and 4.3 % of children the phenomenon of school harassment in Spain, with respect to this year. I mean, we're constantly talking about reports that refer to data a few years ago in general. And, finally, we have the Welsh School Living Strategy, the diagnosis report between 2015 and 2020. And then, in fact, as Mr Lourenzo has just said, students receive 5.2% of harassment and 6.2% of post-obligatory teaching. And here I'm going to stop and I'm going to make a sort of amendment to Mr. Lourenzo's assertions, because frankly I think there's little favor with the rigorous use of data and the perception that on this very serious problem we can have when you make an absolutely linear extrapolation, and they say that as there are 5% students receiving school harassment, and there are 300,000 students then we have 15,000 students, and that's not so. Statistics cannot be managed that way because it would obviously lead to an absolutely unsustainable reality in schools that we know is not true. So, Mr. Lourenzo, from the parliamentary respect and from the personal respect he knows I have, statistics cannot be handled that way. Because the data published for Galicia and for the state speak other very different figures, obviously worrying figures, but it turns out that the data handled by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training are located in 2017, again, four years ago, the last of what we have data, in 71 the victims of school harassment in Galicia and 1,054 throughout the state. And there's an increase in cases that happily coincides with the fact that protocols are published and acts by educational administrations in general on this problem. There is an increase in 2017 compared to 2016 of 18% in Galicia and 11% in Spain. And I'm not going to go into if there's more or less, what I'm saying is that putting active politics into operation to deal with this problem, knowing its true dimension and magnitude without alarming, without oversizing it, but with data, will put any public administration on a path, sorry, appropriate to solve the problem. And finally, and about that goes your motion, we have the educational protocol for the prevention and detection and treatment of school and cyber harassment. Beyond a law published in 2011 of participation, coexistence and participation in the educational community and a decree that took three and a half years to be published that regulates and develops that law, the fact is that all autonomous communities in Spain have virtually identical protocols or, at least, very similar to what the Autonomous Community of Galicia has. And I'm not making a defense of that protocol, but I don't think that we should make a discarnated criticism of what it establishes, because it has precisely marked a point of inflexion, not only in Galicia, but in the whole state, with regard to the treatment of this very serious problem that we have in the centers. Because the fact that there are 71 cases in 2017 doesn't make the problem statistically insignificant and much less socially irrelevant. It's a serious problem we have to deal with, either 71 or 7 or 1. Tolerance with this zero problem, and I think it's something we all agree on. But the advantage of the protocol, regardless of whether it is indeed an extensive protocol, with a possibly disproportionate amount of reports and actions to be done, which actually turns it into an instrument that is not effective and, therefore, that must be modified, I repeat, the goodness of that protocol is that it sets out common guidelines for all centres, such as all protocols, to be within any scope. And the first is that it sets out what are the elements to identify when a case of school harassment is given, with three relevant data that must be given simultaneously: the existence of intent to do harm; the repetition of aggressive behaviors, and I know that there is a certain collective that establishes that there are three times that one should give that kind of situation, I don't know if there are three, if there are four, if you have to establish a number, particularly I think not, but it's a personal opinion; and furthermore, and lastly, the duration of this kind of attitudes. And it also identifies according to the Ombudsman and UNICEF a number of types of harassment: exclusive social marginalization, verbal aggression, physical assault, ill-treatment, etc., in all its modalities. But we must also stress that the problem of harassment at school is a problem that affects society as a whole, because it affects the entire educational community. Obviously, the biggest damage is the victim, because the fact of being the object of a school harassment phenomenon can result in school failure, psychological trauma, physical risk, dissatisfaction, etc., etc. But it also damages the perception that the aggressor may have about giving for certain good conduct that we understand are socially inexorable and, in addition, for the comrades and companions who intervene as observers in this phenomenon. I insist, it's a problem that affects everyone, more intensely, of course yes, people who are the direct victims of this harassment phenomenon. So, given all of this I just said, our parliamentary group with regard to your motion has tabled a series of amendments, first because you intend or ask to create a work table representing the teacher, ANPAS, etc., to address a new Greek strategy against school harassment. And we say, yes, we have to develop a new Welsh strategy against school harassment, taking into account the learnings obtained from both protocol and strategy application, that is, based, as I said before, on empirical data. You ask us to create a new network of guidance teams, and what we want with our amendment is for the existing ones to be strengthened. I mean, I don't think it's about creating new structures, parallel structures, because the whole guidance network has an impact on the same issues and in particular on this school harassment. Finally, we understand that our amendment proposal improves its proposal in the motion; I insist, we are absolutely in agreement on the substance of the matter, we have to possibly change that protocol, we have to do it in a consensual way, so that it will be agile.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u110	It's over, Mr. President. And finally a reflection, and I don't want to misguide this debate that, I repeat, is extremely relevant. If this phenomenon of the existence of a victim of repetition in conduct, etc., which I have just revealed, we would probably be speaking in the case of Mr Rafael Vieiro of an episode of political harassment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u111	On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good day to all. It gives the impression that BNG denies that the board is working to eliminate school harassment and that all it does is propaganda. But anyone who hears us, Mr. Lourenzo, can believe that anyone who exaggerates in his words is you and not the counselor. And this group is worried about school harassment, and it's actually a topic, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group said, where we have to keep working, and we will have to keep working a lot, of course, but we also have to take into account the work done, and since Galicia is a pioneering community in the state as a whole in the commitment for the coexistence and participation of the educational community. A Law of coexistence and participation of the educational community has already been passed in 2011 and a decree has been developed in 15. In this way, we anticipate the Government of the State by launching initiatives such as the Welsh School Living Strategy 2015-2020 Educonvives, in which the protocol is developed for the prevention, detection and treatment of harassment and cyber harassment and also creating an important organ, such as the School Cooperation Council of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. 85% of families and teachers express that there are no conflicts in the centers, but while one has to work. And in view of this reality, Mr. Lourenzo, Greek nationalism has already been against the law of coexistence and participation and Greek nationalism, nor did he want to support this strategy 2015-2020. We congratulate the change of attitude and the new will of consensus that you bring us here today, but you start home on the roof ignoring the cementing works of the Educonves strategy and proposing, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party has just amended it, a large part of the measures you are proposing because they violate educational regulations. That's why we propose a replacement amendment, a replacement amendment that can be voted upon by all groups of this House. Look, Junta will reinforce the fight against school harassment with a new plan, as announced here by the adviser, creating interdisciplinary working groups and facilitating the visibility of conduct in favor of positive coexistence, with the objective of deepening zero tolerance in the face of school harassment. And, indeed, in order to succeed in future work, indeed, it is appropriate to remember and review the work done so far, and the work done so far is that a strategy of coexistence, which for the first time, thanks to this Educonves strategy, has allowed the teaching of Greek for the first time to have plans of school coexistence in each centre, adapted to the singularity of each centre and adapted to each territory. That's why Educonves put in place training actions, as you proposed in his motion, for the prevention of conflicts and training for students, for families, for teachers and for management teams. What's the matter with you? What's going to have to do more? We agree. It has launched a dissemination of successful experiences and good practices, it has homogenized documents and standard models to speed up conflict management, because you present some point that still reduccratizes more management of this topic. Measures to enhance the conciliation and mediation process as a means of resolving the conflict, as well as coordination with other entities and institutions that work for the improvement of coexistence. See, in addition, this strategy was used to boost the first general survey that took place in Spain, which was in the year 15 when the first census macro-questioner was launched to test the coexistence of school centres adapting it to the territory, and which was updated in the second questionnaire, where 60% of respondents consider that coexistence improved in 2019 compared to 2015. And that believes that strategy can work better, but it has worked out well. 60% thinks it's improved cohabitation; so you call this propaganda, then actually, because we're starting from a bad place. But you come here saying that you come with the tender hand and the Union has a very clear roadmap, and also in the last debate of the State of Autonomy, with the votes in favour of the People's Party and with the abstention of the Socialist Party, but you voted again against putting a plan against school harassment, you voted again, Mr. Lourenzo, again in the year 19 at the last debate of the State of Autonomy. At this moment, educational centers are reminding the entire educational community that covers the surveys of coexistence and diagnosis that are currently developing, surveys addressed to teachers, students, families, teaching staff and non-teachers. On the one hand, it's a totally private and anonymous survey, the more participation, the more opinion, the more information, the more people we can hear through that survey, the better we can find out about solutions. Because you've actually mentioned a lot of reports, but we have no state comparative studies to be able to accommodate. And, above all, the important thing is to know the vision of each class and of each educational center, and, so that the survey is reliable, because much of the questions in the previous editions are actually kept. So once this work is completed, this information will be sent to educational centres, the information will be used by the Conseil de Convivencia and all the bodies that work to guide the decision-making that will allow new measures adapted to the reality of classes. Finally, there is a protocol that has been working, which has put in place several measures, which is producing results, and we are actually facing a matter that requires the involvement of everyone, of all society, of the entire educational community and even of parliamentary groups. And we must all defend zero tolerance against any situation of school harassment and also against any violence or discrimination. So I trust the work done by all the professionals in this field, and in addition the adviser announced that he was working on a plan to combat harassment with the objective of turning educational centers into places of trust, of coexistence, strengthening the coexistence protocols and the student's individualized detection and follow-up tools. A new plan will be set up in the information collected and, above all, in the data and work of the Galician Conseil of Convivencia. A strategy, as the advisor announced, which will focus on training, updating protocols, developing new protocols, improving existing protocols, specific programs on social realities and school mediation, focusing on exemplary practices, and from then on putting the fincapé, making a window into an integral vision of coexistence, and taking into account other social agents as well as experts on the subject. And even the advisor announced the possibility of establishing working groups at provincial level where they were cross-border with social and health professionals. You say they formulate this motion in constructive terms, but the truth is I've told you before, ignoring the measures that are already in progress and in this sense we present an amendment that our amendment is actually inspired by the Amnesty International Report, which you cited to criticize, but to which you did not make any case to propose a single measure of what the Amnesty International Report proposes. For criticism yes, but not for action. You presented here amendments, points 4 and 7, which aim to use the fight against school harassment to open the door to professional collectives outside the educational system, who become part of the education system people who are not standardized, who do not allow it to be regulated. Psychologists, lawyers and social educators can participate in educational projects, of course, and are already doing so, but they can't be understood as educational staff belonging to education as you ask in point 4 and point 7, and the spokesman of the Socialist Group also reminded him. And at measure 5 he wants to ignore the work done in Galicia with the guidance departments and the specific orientation teams. By the way, we're the only autonomous communities in Spain that have primary guidance, and you say there's no reinforcement, you say we're against the reinforcement of professionals. But the truth is, really, you are presenting a number of points that cannot actually be voted on by this group. In addition, the board maintains several collaborations with entities and associations and organizations with powers in puppetry, educational and professional orientation, establishing common protocols for action and promoting the exchange of information and dissemination of good practice. The truth is I don't know, I don't know if you're here telling us you're coming with your hand in hand, we'll see you now in your second intervention, but of course you've been against 2011, you were in 2015, you're back against 2019, and you're asking questions that are actually difficult to approve, as the spokesman of the Socialist Group has also transferred to you. So the amendment we tabled reached all groups of this House, and at the end it consists of four points, which can well be supported by all groups because they are serious amendments, which seek to involve the whole of society, to review the strategy of coexistence, and there I would like to correct in a voice, Mr President, where in point 2 "the fight against school dropout is fight against school harassment." But also recompiling all the information and enabling all the resources of the education system to learn to seek zero tolerance in teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u114	For my part, thank you very much, Mr. President and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u115	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u116	Thank you, President. One question, Mr. Álvarez, when it comes to statistics, logically the reference I made is 5.8% on average between compulsory and postobligatory of what is perceived. But, of course, if we go there, logically it wouldn't be dramatic to address 15,000 cases or more likely to give statistics in the educational system, but it's done that, if we go to the data that are broken down, because in the school coexistence strategy itself, we also talk about 16% that without being harassed, they say they suffer, they perceive or suffer -- that's the question -- violence in the classroom. About 15 per cent of them are discriminated against and humiliated on social networks. But there's one data that goes a lot further, which, compared to this 5.8% -- the math is you -- on average, there's 1.33% of the families who get these situations. We're talking about that, when it comes to matters of perception, we're talking about that there's about a difference of 12,000 people extrapolating these issues. Logically, that leads us to a reflection, but it's that when you talk about the 71 cases of 2017, that's exactly what the Amnesty International Report sets out; that is, they're just the tip of the iceberg, because you know perfectly that these are the cases in which the school harassment protocol is activated, but how many cases are not left on the way and that are approached by mediation mechanisms, how many cases are not left on the way, that they simply are not perceived and that they are precisely the tip of the iceberg, that is what was highlighted in the Amnesty International report? [[Applause]] With regard to the single protocol, yes, documentally. What's the problem, and surely there's a good deal of the discrepancy Mr. Rodeiro was saying about our position at the time. That a protocol if it's not equipped with resources and tools to be applied, we can put on black paper about white or what we want, but logically there'll be centers that don't have the capacity of personnel and resources to carry it forward. In any case, we thank your amendment, we're going to propose a transaction, because I understand that many of the issues are likely to reach agreements. Mr. Rodeiro, he says that of the legislation and the value of the work that is being done, beyond the positions we have had for the reasons I have just explained, because we cannot implement measures of liturgical character. A protocol centre cannot be filled with the bureaucratic burden that it has without the personnel and resources needed to carry it forward and to solve the situations of harassment. That was the heart of our position against it. If you want to implement measures against school harassment, the first thing we have to do is give centers and administration tools and personnel, because as soon as we're covered we can take it forward. The same was true of the strategy of Educonvives, but it is true that the confusion that takes place, which the Education Counsellor had here the other day, I understand that he is aware, is a rhetorical question if he wants, between what he is cohabiting and what he is harassing is that he really is alarming. You speak of the fact that the surveys are certainly being sent to the houses to address the issues of harassment when the inquiry sent to the families does not appear the word harassment by nowhere, Mr. Roder. In the survey you send, you ask questions vaguely about whether you suffer violence, aggression, victim. No, that's the problem, Mr. Rodeiro, that they don't distinguish what is punctual violence from what is harassment and that's why they fail their plans. That's why their protocols fail. [[Applause]] If we can't distinguish what's an unfortunate fight in a center or an episode of violence from what's school harassment, we can hardly implement solutions for all these cases. And really, I have to say, I'm not going to enter the presentation of the data in a positive way, because I really think that's what everyone knows about, right? But the question, let us say, of manipulation, when it comes to the debate of the State of Autonomy. We yesterday, today and always have the hand to sit down and to talk about this issue, is our first point, which we propose in enabling figures that are necessary to address harassment and that, for example, with regard to school harassment, simply measures as they are implemented and we have reached agreements happily in this Parliament on violence against men. A woman who suffers from macho violence if she has the right, through tools and mechanisms, to take psychological attention. A child who suffers from school harassment and who has no resources has to papy up all that violence and all that harassment in loneliness at home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u118	...these are the measures we want to implement. These are measures which are also consensual, and which, Mr Rodeiro, are considered in the Amnesty International report. They are. I'm done. So logically because of the amendment's position, if I may be allowed president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u119	Yes or no of the two, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u120	With regard to the amendment of the People's Party, it simply deverts and tries to remove content from our amendment and we cannot accept it. We'll put forward a compromise proposal with the Socialist Party, which we'll bring to you in case you have to value it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Lourenzo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in connection with the legal framework of the State of the amendment of Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of health of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u122	No amendments were tabled to this motion, and to formulate the motion Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u123	Thank you, President. Since it is today a day of self-victimization and self-flashing in the presidency, I want to remember that here last week a member of this Parliament, speaking, a member of the People's Party said another Member of this House, my fellow, who had prepared a pine box. By the time you autovitize someone and do these things to review the cameras and so on, I think you have to have a little bit more dignity and this institution is not chaired by [covery and submission]. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions, by order of the President, on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] [[Applause]] And, therefore, and to the thread of this, I want to join very convincingly, and secondly, it will pass the morning more convincingly, to our total rejection of the anti-democratic behaviour of the People's Party, which wants to expel from the golden politics of Mr. Rafael Villarino, who has won the elections, and wants to stay with Jácome, who is fine... in front of that blackmail of Feijóo and Baltar, we defend, as always, democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u124	I'm sorry. Mr. Torado, what did you say, did I not understand you well?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u125	Well, you can check the machine, like Mr. Santalices does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u126	No, but what did he say? That this house had been presided over since cowardice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u127	...if you don't mind, as they've already reviewed, if you don't mind, I want to talk about the health law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u128	I appreciate that, but I'm asking you to pull that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u129	If you don't know what I said, how do you want me to pull it off?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u130	No, no, it was confirmation. I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u131	...you're asking me to explain what I said, but tell me to take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u132	Mr. Torado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u133	Mr. President, let us talk about things, try not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u134	Yeah, man, if you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u135	...because it's the third plenary session followed by the interruption of my interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u136	Mr. Torado, don't worry I'll cut you off. I told him, if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u137	No, no, you don't have to discount, you have to let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u138	Mr. Torado, I ask you to withdraw the house which is presided over by cowardice and submission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u139	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u140	Yes, he did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u141	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u142	Well, anyway, if he didn't say that, I'll take him out of the act and call him in order if he does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u143	I didn't say that. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u144	Okay, well, I understand that, and as for the one who's on it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u145	I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u146	...and that's what's up to me. You can continue with the matter that brought you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's never unpleasant to confirm one's predictions. What happened to the Health Act? With the Health Act it happened that eight months of pandemic, after we started the pandemic we had a debate or a debate started in this Parliament on the reform of the Health Act. For what? Theoretically to help clarify competences. However, what could have been resolved by means of a regulation, through measures such as other autonomous communities, in Galicia was treated by law. But, in fact, it wasn't a debate about competences or how to sanction or empower the possibilities of sanctioning. No, it was a delirious law, certainly an absolutist tone at some points, which from this plenary session and from committees and presentations -- the five minutes that lasted the presentations -- of debate we could refer from our point of view that we considered to be dubious constitutionality -- these were the literal words that we used --. It did not solve or solve this law-making any health problems, it did not fully work on the health system, staff, resources, mechanisms, structures, anything. They were incomplete measures because even in the last few weeks, the municipalities have demanded that this law not even collect powers to have the ability to sanction or warn or monitor, for example, in open spaces or in public spaces. It was a law raised by a certain, even, sovereignty and some authoritarianism, because nothing was considered of what the opposition said. It was thought to be all perfect, all very well. We warned that that law might have hesitated to fit into the legal framework; we were accused of being alarmist, accused of being torpedoing. We wanted and argued here that a regulation would have been a good measure, that we would be delighted to be able to support and, if any, to collaborate, but that law would have no meaning and that it was only made to confront. What happened? That the People's Party considered everything perfect, and not. The Council of State said and considered that a constitutional remedy had been filed. The Constitutional Court will decide, but there are previous judgments which seem to indicate that there are sufficient grounds for understanding that this law has a lot of constitutional problems. So implicitly assumes it by the Government of the Union when you want to negotiate on it; if you were so convinced, you wouldn't negotiate. But what is the result? The result is that 13 months later we are without even a regulation clarifying competences, without legally clarifying how we should manage other public health problems. We don't have the ability to debate a law that improves and strengthens the health system and we have 13 months to do nothing. We have one thing, yes, that's what the People's Party was looking for with this law; we have confrontation, mud, that's what we have. Because, in the end, PP likes this. So it happened in the 15-day interrogation, where we brought this issue and, when the Government asked about this topic, it devoted itself -- as almost every time the vice president intervenes -- to personally attack those who make the proposals; and three spokesmen of the PP in that debate for different reasons, and at the end spoke of everything, and someone even told a story of friends from time to time, and another spoke of their ability to address or decide what they are talking about and what they are not, they talked about everything but the Health Act and how we believe, we propose -- we may be wrong, we believe that in this case we are right -- that we have to solve it by the way of the agreement. And this is what we propose today in the motion, which the Government of the United States feels to the Government of the State with loyalty, which seeks to agree on a resolution, which corrects matters that are at stake and which appears to be obvious that may cause constitutional problems. And from there, they solve a measure, they bring this Parliament as quickly as possible so that we can speed up the process and we can approve that if they even consider it -- they're done that revolutionary thing -- the proposals that make the opposition, probably some mistakes and probably some correct ones, who knows? Sometimes even there are people who may be right beyond the People's Party, they don't have to be always, sometimes alone. This is what we propose. But we're still at this point. It seems that, in the face of such a situation, the People's Party not only assumes that it could have been wrong, the Government of the Union assumes it implicitly when enabling or talking about negotiation; the People's Party celebrates the problem, because the People's Party celebrates the problems, especially if it can confront someone and, if it can confront the Socialist Party, much better. The mud, sinking, this is what you seem to be looking for with this law from the beginning, because the reality is that we have nothing, 13 months later we have nothing, there is nothing that has changed in regulation. But you're so delighted, why, because you're facing it. Because besides you're very confrontational and if you don't have to, inwine, invincible; if you're total, why?, if the problem is to confront, if there's no problem. And we have come up with a solution of agreement and dialogue between governments and that parliaments give out legislation. If that's what we're proposing, agree on a solution so we can solve it as soon as possible. What's in front of us? We have in front of a Government and a People's Party who want to be in permanent war and is quite tired, quite useless on the other hand. And, therefore, we argue that there has to be a better solution. But you're right that you're at war, you've been on practically every subject, practically all of them. Now, even here in this Parliament you have an opposition -- which will raise some issues that can be agreed upon, not -- but which is not introducing even themes for loyalty that the Government and the People's Party are introducing to confront. Not to solve; to confront, of course. You discussed the vaccines that had entered Portugal. They argued that they didn't come by the target groups, that they arrived; now I think no one can discuss that, but, of course... they argue now that if there's a problem, because they're not vaccinating the sailors who are on board for a long time and they tell the government of the state, when it's an autonomous decision, because there are other communities that are already doing so, like Euskadi. You even had to applaud what Mr. Feijóo did the other day by giving manipulated data, knowing that they were being manipulated, what happens is that habit does not fade anything. A shame from a statistical point of view and an aberration from a political point of view, to give changed data about who had two doses, who had one... I sometimes think how one can manipulate more, but Mr. Feijó always wins, always finds ways that others cannot imagine. [[Applause]] But, in addition to the legal question of how to organize, we always defend it, because we... move them questions of vaccination but, as you will see, we do not raise this debate. You opened this door, now you can ask for anything. For example, we started asking: what about mutualists who don't want to vaccinate? We can start discussing that. But you're about the regulations for dealing with the pandemic and the way you regulate it, you're just not being loyal or by chance. Look, we started with the state of alarm in this country, so you eventually abandoned the state of alarm and said it was bad. When the alarm state ended in the first part, you then wanted to pick it up again -- well, it was possible to extend it and then they were against --. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When it came to the possibility that the alarm states were raised in another legal format across communities, they were called, Mr. Feijó said, "Alarm stations." When it came to a more serious moment and it was necessary to recompose the state of alarm, you said it was devastating to the economy. Now it's about to end the alarm state and you said it couldn't end because it was a fantastic mechanism, it wasn't demolition anymore, it was fantastic and it had the tools. It has been planned to extend and what did the PP say, that it would vote against. You have one position: against. It doesn't matter, it doesn't. That's easy, because you just have to see what others do and stand against it, but this doesn't solve anything. Let us see if we are able to be useful, that this is important to a Parliament. And we bring a motion that suggests that this Government of the Union, that it has the powers to do so and that it represents us all, because it is the Government of all, negotiate with the Government of the State -- because it has the powers to do so -- so that those articles, those parts of that law that it promoted, that we all told it would not have legal fit, and that assuming the negotiation is implicitly assuming that it has a problem with that law. So, wake him up, feel him, stop talking all the mouse in the media -- like that one said: talking a lot of little help and talking a little bit helps a lot --. They sit down, wake up and correct these parts; bring them to this Parliament, let's agree on a measure -- you have a majority -- you try to propose something sensible, try to listen to what we can propose -- in case something is worth -- and we approve something. Because 13 months later we have nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u150	For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, almost late, everyone. We met today two months later, debating again on the reform of the Galician Health Act. Two months in which few changes have occurred since their approval and in which the BNG's position on it has not changed either. Since the beginning of the pandemic we've been demanding more resources, more professional and more investment in public health without the Government of Galician Union paying the slightest attention. There's no worse day than anyone who doesn't want to hear, and there's the People's Party's Government installed, in the pedestal of those who are never mistaken and those who don't need advice, and since that shortcut it sets and provides. We are opposed to this reform because we believe that in a health crisis of such silence there is more to need than ever before health measures and reforms. Health measures that were already needed before because the health situation had been touched from time to time. And, on the other hand, since the Government of the Union, like anyone who hears the rain, they have ignored it; they have spent months announcing a reform of the Galician Health Act that finally they were unable to bring to this Parliament and that they have presented through the parliamentary group and support of the German Government. They presented this legislative reform announcing it as the law that would save us from the pandemic, while, after something more than a year immersed in it, we continue with the same tools in public health. What reinforcement do we count today in health care? With the trap of telephone consultation and the hiring of 200 nurses to fill those who volunteered to develop the vaccination campaign. And we call it a trick at the phone call because that's it, a simple trap, a trick to do like anyone I do without doing anything. Because accessibility for patients is much more complex, because the workload for professionals, if not the same, is much higher, and consequently the quality of care was less. Because a year later, the patients continue to have obstacles so they can be seen by their primary care doctor. Because there are lists of primary care waiters for a week or more. Because the professionals are exhausted and they get nothing but beautiful words in return; they promised the professionals that they would work during the three-day additional pay leave, and where do those days go? because many of them asked for them, but they weren't granted. Neither -- everything must be said -- they didn't officially deny themselves, because nobody likes to get hurt, they just stood there in the limbo of the just with the label of "enpension", waiting for the day to pass requested. At most, some lucky call to say they didn't count on those days. Is that how you take care of the staff? From the staff who put on the back and the hands to get all this out of the way? [[Applause]] Because, if there's something that we don't have the slightest doubt about -- neither do I, nor does it fit my group, nor does it fit most of the Galician society -- is that we have great professionals working in Sergas, from the last of the intensivist doctors to the first of the cleaners. [[Applause]] Because the health system is much more than the ones they wear. [[Applause]] Professionals who have given the best of themselves, who continue to give their best to keep quality in mind as much as possible. [[Applause]] And that where there are no managements, where there are no human resources planning, or the board's orders, they stretch a little more by hand so it doesn't go down. Because, if there's anything that has made this pandemic clear, it's Sergas who works for him, the professionals who support him. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We've had a year of pandemic and we've been saying it's necessary to change the focus, but here it's wrong that it's wrong. We need strengthened primary care, with capacity, with resources. When we talk about primary care, we talk about all the categories, we talk about medicine and nursing, but also about social work, pediatrics, matrons, dentistry, mental health; or also about these great strangers in our Welsh public health like physiotherapy, dietetics or occupational therapy, because primary care is essential to function in an axile and solvent way so that the rest of the health system can continue to function. It is necessary to strengthen public health and preventive medicine services with their own structures, with human and material resources. A public tracking system that works properly to detect germs of infectious diseases, to cut the transmission chain. A tracking system that may be one of the greatest unknowns in the management of this pandemic, because it has never been very clear, nor how personal it was hired, nor what was its way of working. We now know that many of them have been hired under extremely precarious conditions, taking advantage of periods of testing and possible contracts. And it wasn't until now, until the middle of last month, in March of 2021, when the Galician Board announced the bidding of a large contract for the tracking of the virus. The truth is, it's never late, but punctuality wasn't her strong either. [[Applause]] There is a need for a real public research system, with budgeting, which really bets on scientific development, knowledge generation and the search for new therapies. No one at this point questions the importance of research, for example, in the development of vaccines, which are our main weapon to put a stop to this pandemic. It is unfortunate that if we had the misfortune to hear voices of doubt about whether this research should be public, even though most of the financing of private pharmaceuticals was also public, and on the contrary, the yields were fully capitalised and privatized for the benefit of these companies. And that's where our opposition to health law reform comes from. A reform of the Health Act has to bring health measures, not what was done by the People's Party Government. It was called this year to your need to supposedly have suitable tools to deal with the pandemic. It was an essential reform, even today Mr. Pazos said. And curiously what came to be put on the table was nothing but a series of purely restrictive measures, because no health measures. And for a pandemic we need health laws, health laws, not law of public order. [[Applause]] That's why we opposed this reform. Because, on the one hand, it's a cut in public rights and freedoms from a huge scale and, on the other hand, because it doesn't talk about health, it doesn't talk about the health system staff, it doesn't talk about the control of infections, epidemics and pandemics. List only sanctions which match this rights cut. It's not about looking for legal boxes, it's about this rule not responding to the needs of the pandemic. Laws must respond to demands, to the real needs of the people and not to the mere whim of who is ruling. [[Applause]] It's sad, the truth is it's very sad that in times like these, legislative reforms are driven by the intention of unraveling the response of a supposed rival seeking confrontation or even victimism. It's sad that what you have to say to the President of the Council in this appeal to the Constitutional Court in an interview is that, if this law were written in Catalan instead of in Greek, the Constitutional Court would not have suspended it. It's very sad to reduce institutions, even this House to a field, to a tennis game that is played between Moncloa and San Caetano, throwing accusations that one doesn't do and another does less, or that one who gave us to do if it wasn't for the others. We are at the door of a new crisis, where we see that the pandemic has health consequences, too, but also has social consequences, where we need to take action to prevent them from ever again being the ones that have less to pay for the consequences of this crisis. This country deserves much more than this cheap imitation of Roland Garros. And that's why I reiterate once again that for BNG it is essential to strengthen Welsh public health with more staff, with more resources and with more budget. To curb the outsourcing and privatization trend and put all the tools, all the tools to work to overcome one of the biggest health crises this country has experienced. And these tools necessarily go through Sergas, not courts of public order. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I'm allowed -- I think I'm taking the feeling of the whole House -- and I think we should express the pain and extend our condolences to the families of two Spanish journalists who were murdered, all points out that by a jihadist group in Burkina Faso. One of them, in addition, journalist Daniel Beriain, who worked on the Voice for many years as a war correspondent, accompanied by a photographer, Roberto Fraile. And we want to congratulate their families and the whole journalistic profession, which often suffers this kind of persecution. [[Applause]] Already entering into other less serious things, Mr. Torrado, I one day someone from the PSOE has to explain to me why, if in a coalition pact the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego asks for the head of a mayor, for example Mr. Orozco, this is normal when a coalition is made, instead if the PP asks for something similar we are little less than fascists. Anyway, things you'll see, you follow yours and we, as you said, talk about the Health Act. On May 20, Mr. Pedro Sánchez said -- and I quote literally the Journal of Sessions of Congress -- the following: "What we will do, ladies and gentlemen, is start to analyze and discuss with all of you and negotiate the modification of various laws to ensure proper governance, once we have lifted the alarm state. Those laws that we will analyze will basically be sanitary." Shortly before the same said the first vice-president of the Government of the Senate and in the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction we agreed the People's Party and the Socialist Party on the health side "to update the national and autonomous health legislation by adapting it to the proposals of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction". A year later we continue under a state of alarm decreed throughout Spain, which has a vigil until the next 9th of May, and after it there is nothing done. That's how that same government that a year ago said he was working on the amendment of health legislation. Certainly in parallel, the Government has issued a Royal Decree of June 9 on 21/20 of urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by the coward-19, which was called the decree of the new normality. And the PP supported him in order to include this regulatory framework in it. After the time, this was neither urgent, because it had just been approved in March 2021, nor positively valued the enlargements that the Socialist Party had in principle been receptive to, because they rejected all the amendments that the People's Party had tabled and failed to achieve a framework to deal with the outbreaks or equip the country with instruments needed to keep the virus under control. In fact, for the only one who served was to set up a mess with the masks that then led to the Interterritorial Council having to adopt an interpretative agreement to know whether on the beaches, for example, there were or not to use masks. In short, the reform of health laws has been proposed and they have not been made, a mandate from the Parliamentary Reconstruction Commission has asked to draw up a timetable for carrying out those reforms which have been ignored, a real decree has been issued which had to be used to provide legal security and which has not done so, and we are also in the face of the end of the last state of alarm. What did we do in Galicia? First, the president at various conferences of presidents, already in May and June, asked the Government of Spain for the reform of the organic law governing the states of pandemics and epidemics in our country. That was initially welcomed by the Government of Spain, as I have just said. However, he was ignored, to the point that the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia, sent it on the 25th, when the new state of alarm was declared, sends him a proposal for reform of the Government of Spain's organic law in October. The Courts reject it, the Government of Spain rejects it and what the parliamentary group decides, in contact with the Government, is to open the possibility that, since there is no state law, we take advantage of the possibilities that organic law makes autonomous communities develop it. And it was as we developed organic law 3/1986, which says, in relation to the pandemics, "In order to control communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive actions, may take appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of those who are or have been in contact with them and with the immediate environment, as well as those who are deemed necessary in case of risk of communicable nature." This is the basic organic legislation with which judges and autonomous communities have to deal with the pandemic of the coward-19. They may take appropriate measures and adopt those deemed necessary. And what we did in Galicia with the Health Act was to specify what those timely measures are, what they are necessary, how they have to do, what rights citizens have before these measures, what obligations the administrations have to take these measures. Finally, put guarantees. Finally, the law was passed on 26 February this year and no less than 16 March, not even a month later, the Council of Ministers agrees to request from the Council of Ministers a preliminary ruling as a matter of urgency to bring an action against the law unconstitutionality. And once he receives the dictation on March 30, he agrees to interfere with that appeal. It is very noteworthy to read what the Council of State dictates on the urgency with which it is requested. He said: "They do not appear in the office of reference nor in the agreement adopted the reasons for this urgency in relation to an appeal which, in accordance with article 33 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, expires within three months of the publication of the contested law. Nor does this help the way in which the file has been formed in the present case. It does not indicate that the opinion of other ministerial departments and, in particular, the competent ministry on the basis of the matter, which is health care, has been requested." They don't ask the Ministry of Health to report, they don't open the Bilateral Commission, first fallacy. If the Bilateral Commission is open and the jurists of both administrations are already negotiating this is because it was requested by the Galician Council, not because the Government wanted it, first falsification. Because you in your initiative strictly say that it was the Government of Spain that called for dialogue; it is not true, it was the Union of Galicia. And besides not opening the Bilateral Commission, it doesn't even give the Council of State the time it needs as the Council of State itself demonstrates. And it turns out that whoever confronts it is the Union of Galicia. But if we go to the bottom of what the Council of State says about the law, what it says is that of the six sections of the Greek law that the Government of Spain wanted to challenge, the Council of State completely dismisses the alleged unconstitutionality of five of those six paragraphs. The preventive measures of 38.ter do not contravene the constitutional order, any sanctioning regime related and all or related to it does not provide convincing reasons for its unconstitutionality. It makes it clear that the law does not intend to be a substitute for the state of alarm, as you said precisely in the admission debate. And what the Council of State says is that the reform in question has as its sole object the development of state health legislation by giving the autonomous authorities the appropriate mechanisms to deal with situations of serious public health risk and which are at all conditional or incompatible with the state of alarm. And it makes it clear that they don't contravene the vaccination strategy. And even some specific measures such as, for example, the use of mandatory masks, the limit of rights such as closure of activities, schedules, or special measures such as restriction of movement and assembly, explicitly told the Council of State that it is constitutional. And, of course, the criteria of application, proportionality, right of hearing and even the preventive measures, which some jurist in this house told us they were a legal aberration, the Council of State says that they are perfectly legal and constitutional even if there is no recourse, because that is proper to interim measures and not preventive measures. The Council of State does not in any case question whether Galicia can take these measures, explicitly stated: It does not appear that the measures referred to in Article 38.2 of the Act are different from those already adopted by both States and other self-employed. The problem that the Council of State sees is that the insufficiency of organic legislation leaves too much scope for autonomous communities. And it's in those terms in which you understand, not because it's unconstitutional, but because of a delimitation problem, that could present a resource of unconstitutionality. And besides, the appeal is presented and the second falsity that you are repeating is not stopped because the Constitutional Court is blocking the appeal. It is mandatory for article 161.2 of the Constitution. If the Government so requests, the law is immediately suspended. And indeed, the Government has chosen the most aggressive: it did not want to dialogue with the Bilateral Commission, it called for a maximum deadline of urgency to the Council of State, it called for the suspension of the law, and it only negotiated once the appeal was filed and when it was requested by the Council of Galicia. The Council of State also made it very clear that Galicia was right and suggested to the Government of Spain to amend the content of Organic Law 3/1986, because it is in need of a legislative adjustment that gives it greater detail and realization. What's the matter? The problem is that the Government of Spain neither develops the law nor wants it to be developed by the various autonomic powers. Things are changing, in Congress in the debate on April 14 Mr. Sánchez defended the alternative to the state of alarm, the only one is an intensified vaccination plan and not many of those who did not support him by supporting the Government on this; neither ERC, nor Compromis, nor PDECAT, nor More Country, all of them, even the Block, demanded regulations for the future after the state of alarm. The PNV as you know has made a proposal just like us, with the socialists, and your spokesman has said that the ability to regulate these issues cannot depend on the whim of the President of the Government. And there's an autonomous cry. Andalucía, Galicia and Castilla y León, but also the Valencian Community, the Community of Castilla-La Mancha and Cantabria denounced the failure of legal instruments. And it's probably that cry that leads the champion of dialogue and co-governance to deny the conference of presidents we're asking for from Galicia. And what did the Welsh opposition do to this aggressive resource? In this plenary session, they are strongly insisting on the question of self-government. They are very interested in increasing our competence, but on the competences already assumed, in particular in health matters or in the legislative development of organic legislation, which is a competition which the Union, which has Galicia, has, there, the opposition forgets the defense of self-government. BNG said it was chronic announced, but it doesn't defend for anything the majority will of the House. Why do we want sovereignty if then when there's a majority will you don't defend it? You are clearly confusing what is the content of the law, what is legitimate to disagree with, the competence of this House to pass laws within the constitutional framework. I'm the truth is that nationalists who only defend sovereignty when sovereignty gives them reason and not when sovereignty decides something else I can't understand. And the Socialist Party, unconditional support for Sánchez. In this GNP we are naturally asking that the law be unconstitutional, without the Council of State itself evaluating it, and they also say that this committee is going to have to reform the law, there may be an interpretative agreement. They're negotiating now, and we'll see what comes out. We will certainly defend the Health and Self-Government Act, and we will do so because it is the best way to protect the life and health of the Greeks and the Greeks. We will continue to act since institutional loyalty, negotiating in legal terms in bilateral terms, taking into account the possible judgement of the Constitutional Court but, of course, without fail to fill the incomprehensible voids of state legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all be aware that at the bottom of this is neither the Union nor the Parliament of Galicia for passing a law, who has a problem is the people of Greece for the inaction of the Government of Spain who are systematically refusing to carry out the reform of the organic legislation they themselves have promised, who have asked him for the Congressional reconstruction commission, who have asked the autonomous communities and who now also asks the Council of State for the ruling on our law. A law that specifically seeks to protect the Greeks and the Greeks from this inaction of the Government of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u154	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u155	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank you for the tone of the debate, which is always very constructive in both plans and is to thank you. I want to express to BNG, I share quite a bit of the argumentation, we don't know what you're going to vote on, but regardless of that, I think there are some recommendations that have been put here that are quite sensible; some questions we may not share in shade but yes in general and therefore I think it contributes to the debate. On Mr. Puy's intervention, we disagreed on some matters, it's natural, but it will allow me to give him my interpretation of what you have now proposed here. You came here to make opposition from the state government, all right. I remind you there's a Congress of Deputies. This debate that is actually confusing autonomous and state powers seems to be confusing parliaments as well; you come here to oppose the Government of the State, which is legitimate, but I remind you that the Government of the State is a government that comes out of elections and that you have already made that opposition and lost. So we must also respect those decisions, regardless of which they may, of course, be against. But in that debate of the opposition to the State Government, you lose. Lately they're always lost, of course. And it also confuses you to heed the reason, because it's a rather peculiar concept of heeding. You transmit: they didn't listen to us. No, in case you can do it, but that doesn't mean they're right. You guys sometimes listen to what we think, but they don't give us the reason, sometimes. Sometimes they listen, they don't usually give us the reason. So it's not the same. You have tabled a law before Congress and you have been left alone, and you have voted on yourself, it is legitimate, but you have to respect the majority will of voters who when they ask for Greek questions, with all the logic that you demand because they are most, also have to respect that in the state you lose the elections, and are never respecting the majority will of the Spanish state when you decide at Congress, never. So we have to be a little consistent with that position. Secondly, there is a rather interesting question, which is that you assume the dictatement of the Council of State resolution. It is curious, the Council of State has just recommended that the Government of Spain present an unconstitutional remedy against the law, but that is a reason for celebration. It's the first time I see a government, a political party that celebrates that it is recommended to present an unconstitutional remedy against a law itself. If that reaffirms what we've seen saying, if you wanted this. If you've made this law for this, to confront. Because that's what they liked, you're in this to confront. The management of the pandemic is something else, they're here to confront, they have no other obsession. Because you came here to celebrate that the Council of State says, you read one of the parties, you say many times with lots of reason that you cannot read some things by parties, but the Council of State recommends that you present an appeal of unconstitutionality against the law, and you seem well, consider that a achievement. Man, because happiness, I, if I wanted to go for the life of constitutionalist, would not celebrate that they recommend to present a resource of unconstitutionality against me. Of course, you constitutionalists already know what it is, that they give them reason, and the Constitution sometimes tells you what you say and sometimes you don't. Even from a simple point of view, I know it's not so complex, I don't have a legal education to go so far, but the debate from the beginning has been, do you have Galicia's competences to basically manage fundamental rights and public freedoms? The Constitutional Court usually says in all its rulings that it does not, and that's the debate. What's the matter? The problem is that you're here because you want to, you're here because Mr. Feijóo wanted to set up a problem in order to be able to deal with someone, because if you don't confront someone, he shouldn't like the day, and that's the question. Solve the pandemic, have a regulation to clarify competences, that's not it; you have to confront, and then you've been looking for this problem. That's why they didn't accept any negotiations, so they didn't accept any talks in the papers, none. You were trying to get here. The problem is that you're coming out with your questions on how to get here, and that's the problem, because we have a problem now with this situation. We have no priority for the municipalities to have their powers, we don't have a law to clarify if we want a Galician Public Health Agency, we don't understand how we're going to reorganize, if we have to do so, organically counseling to function, we don't put in place a means for us to have an agency that investigates public health in a stable way, or that we compromise a minimum of public investment in public health research. We don't have all that, we don't have a law that regulates the ratios, we don't have a law that regulates how much we should expand the system and how we should formulate it. None of that; it was no longer in the initial proposal. You wanted to get here, to the confrontation because you enjoy it, rejoice in this, and this is the problem, that we don't deserve a government that is only to search for enemies. We need a government that proposes solutions and the solutions are not being celebrated by the Council of State telling them that a constitutional remedy must be brought against its law, because 13 months after that, nothing. Because to you at the end, it's all about consensualness and being loyal and not being wrong, or when you're wrong they're loyal, they're always unfair and when you're wrong they're even more disloyal. And this isn't about what Mr. Feijó thinks it's better to argue with people, it's not. 13 months later we have no law. If you were so good to say that we needed something, they did something, and they could propose something in this Parliament that was at least acceptable. You plant us here that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u156	Silence! Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u157	...we approve or support them in a law that we told them it was dubious constitutionality, that the Council of State says it is dubious constitutionality and that you celebrate it. And I don't understand how a Government can celebrate that a Council of State tells you that its law has to go to constitutionality, unless you want it to be that, to be in war, and in war you won't find us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u158	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Motions vote We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da María González Albert. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Yes, Mr. Martín Seco? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept the point vote? Yes. Which points do you want to separate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u159	The first three on one side and the last on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u160	Sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u161	The three first on one side and the last on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u162	Okay. Do you accept him like that? Let's vote for the first three points. Vote of points 1, 2 and 3 of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Maria González Albert, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the new eucalyptus plantations The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These three points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u163	We vote for the rest of the motion points. Vote of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms. Maria González Albert, minus points 1, 2 and 3, already voted on, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the new eucalyptus plantations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u164	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, initiative by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted and there is a transaction that knows all groups. We have put this transaction to the vote. Voting of the compromise text of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with school harassment The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u165	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado's initiative. Voting of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be taken in relation to the legal framework of the State of amendment of Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u166	We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u167	We reconvene the session, item 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the movement of persons within the Community and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 409/92 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the movement of persons within the Community (OJ L 347, 20.12.1990, p. 1). An amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to this table an amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendmentThe decisive part of the initiative should be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to address the European Parliament and DG Mare to reconsider the contents of the Resolution on an increase in fishing resources in the sea, measures to promote the recovery of fish stocks over sustainable maximum yield (RMS), in particular areas of recovery of protected fish stocks and marine areas, in which may be detrimental to the interests of the Welsh fishing fleet and the sea-industrial chain.")]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u168	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, let's go with the background. In December 2020 the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries adopted the report on an increase in fishing resources at sea, measures to promote the recovery of fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield, and the adoption in particular of fish stocks and marine protected areas. The rapporteur for this report was Caroline Roose, from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, where the Galician Nationalist Block is integrated, although he often says no in this House, and the report was adopted by 16 votes in favour, 8 against and 9 abstentions. They voted in favour of the Greens and Socialists Group, including the vote in favour of the Andalusian Socialist MEP Clara Aguilera -- and I refer to it because later I will speak of another report in which she, curiously, did not vote -- and voted against the People's Group, including the German MEP Francisco Millán Mon. This resolution contains many aspects which are very negative for the interests of the sea-industry chain, since the efforts and achievements of the fisheries sector are not recognised for sustainability; the closures of marine areas are described as panacea, without giving too much details; it is averse to replacing the maximum sustainable yield criterion with the maximum economic yield; and ultimately, there is excessive environmental pressure on workers and workers in the sector, who already have to face complicated challenges, such as the effects of the obligation to land, such as Brexit, the Covid-19 pandemic, the reform of the control regulation, etc. We believe it is important to reiterate that this resolution was drafted by Caroline Roose, of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It's also very important to know who proposes things and then how they vote. To report that this resolution was known by the Council of the Sea directly and that information was subsequently received from the European Parliamentarian Francisco Millán Mon, together with his amendments, specifically 49 amendments to this resolution. Thus the Council of the Sea at the plenary session of the Galego Fisheries Council, held on February 20, 2021, had already included as one of the items on the agenda of that meeting the analysis of that study and that resolution. At the meeting held by the Galician Fisheries Council, it was agreed that a ruling on that resolution will be drawn up, hoping that its position will be respected by the Committee on Fisheries and the European Parliament; we know that it is being drafted and that it is working on it, and we expect a ruling on it. In any case, this text is unfortunately in line with a growing environmental vision in the European Parliament, a vision which does not contemplate the necessary socio-economic aspect of the common fisheries policy, which we have always defended in this Parliament. This report is based on another draft opinion, called "Local and Regional Authorities in the Protection of the Marine Environment", of the European Committee of the Regions, which had been discussed in its plenary of the next month of May, and whose rapporteur is the Committee on the Environment, Climate Change and Energy, is Emma Norén, Vice-President of Lysekil, who is a Swedish town, and also a member of the Green Group. To this project the representative of the Autonomous Community of Wales in the European Committee of the Regions, the Director-General for Foreign Relations and with the European Union, Jesus Gamallo, presented 14 amendments, very focused on that the protection of the marine environment, in addition to environmental measures, must lead to social and economic measures, always respecting and considering the socio-economic aspect of fishing. Some examples that forcefully draw the attention of the project, the local and regional authorities in the protection of the marine environment of the European Committee of the Regions, are that in the project we gather points of agreement similar to that of the previous report of the European Parliament, and that we also understand negative and wrong, as we consider the possibility of increasing the level of resources only on fishing effort. It shows a lack of respect for the sustainability work of the marine-fishing sector in these years, when it is also demonstrated its recovery and maintenance at the maximum sustainable yield level. Linking then to subsidies to excess fishing capacity and overfishing, when the FEMP prevents such increase, to us it seems to be a sample of ignorance, because it is insulting, I think, also attribute climate change only to fishing, as well as asking for its elimination of exemptions to the fuels of this activity and not to other types of fuels. Then center on meeting the sulphur limits on the green water in the ship-held debuggers and not on the multiple factors that can cause this process. That is to blame a tiny part of this process too, so it must be analysed before its prohibition and related to other activities as well that may be in other causes of terrestrial origin, not only in the causes of ships or fishing. He also speaks of protecting coastal areas, only unspecified, and we believe that it should not be an obstacle to the development of traditional and necessarily coastal activities, such as fishing, seafood, aquaculture or processing of marine products, which have demonstrated their sustainability and their ability to generate wealth and employment. But it does not specify what such protection will be, and we fear it may also directly affect those activities. It is necessary to establish protection for marine areas which may contain high ecological value, but the articulation of this protection must be justified and argued, we have repeated again, given the necessary integration of many environmentally friendly activities, and the economic and social level so important that it has fishing. Well, for all this it is clear that Galicia is in this case, and in this opinion, the foundation of other autonomous communities, of different political colors that are supporting our amendments. There are several autonomous Spanish communities that then presented themselves also after Galicia amendments in the same sense that refer to the emanations from here, which they did, as I said, the deputy in Europe Francisco Millán Mon and the representative also of the Government of Galicia Jesús Gamallo; therefore, Galicia is serving as an example for other autonomous communities. And they do it neither for compadre, nor for equality of party, nor for friendship, but for the coherence and common sense of the defence of the maritime-fishing sector and its people, a basic and fundamental pillar for our country. We therefore consider it essential to find the necessary balance in the balance between environmental and socio-economic measures, the two arms of a balance that cannot go against our fishing sector, nor to make it guilty of the environmental ills of our seas, and therefore we understand that, although not being binding, and I repeat, this document is not positive, since it collects questions, as I said before, negative, and we also believe that it is a line and a trend that must be stopped. And in matters such as how sustainable maximum yield is meant to take a very difficult step forward to assume, go beyond that yield and set the figures above it, with which the level of TACs should be further adjusted. It aims to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for all exploited species, and we therefore understand that also for those who are not subject to TAC today. It aims to change the maximum sustainable yield by maximum economic performance, without knowing the real and practical effects of changing levels and without referring to their inclusion in a common policy of reformulated and dialoged fishing. It is also clearly and reinforced by protected marine areas, as I said earlier, proposing to achieve a 30 % protection from maritime areas in 2030, without specifying the natural elements to be protected, if they are the funds, if it is the fauna..., not specific. And then it says that protection is lifted within these areas so that 10 % will be banned from all economic activities, without estimating whether the percentage will be on specific areas or on the total protected areas of the European Union. So this can really harm fishing and the fishing sector in Galicia. In addition, there is an absence of the social issues of activity, when they are the most important and most important to us, and they are not explicitly cited at any time. Finally, this report was voted on in the plenary session of the European Parliament and obtained a final result of the vote in plenary, which reached 362 votes in favour, 248 votes against and 71 abstentions. They voted in favour of this, which I am summarizing -- you all have at your disposal -- the Greens and Socialists Group, and they voted against the People's Group. But Clara Aguilera, the Socialist Member, with a known track record in Europe, has not been and has not voted for this report. I think that with those measures you have, I'm not surprised at anything that I don't want to vote for. We want to show our rejection of all these measures, of these reports, of these opinions, which we believe are very detrimental to the sea-industry chain, for our fishing, and therefore we ask that this rejection be supported by all political groups, which the Union may address through the Government to the European Parliament, DG MARE. And with regard to the amendment of the Socialist Party, well, I'll wait for your intervention and then we'll be positioned, but I really believe that the position and trend of environmental radicalism can greatly damage our economic system and our fishing sector, and it's therefore important that we strengthen from here and this can reach Europe. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I want to begin by expressing our total rejection of the anti-democratic behaviour of the People's Party, which wants to expel the candidate who won the municipal elections in Ourense, Rafael Villarino from politics. Faced with the blackmail of Mr Feijóo and Baltar, democracy. Rectify now, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] The fact is that we are already used by the People's Party to use this House, the German Parliament, to reject and amend decisions of the European Parliament and of the rest of the Community institutions. Since June 2018 they used this house and this House to criticize and lay the duty of the Central Government, to ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez for all that they were unable to ask of him for more than seven and a half years of Mr. Rajoy's Government. Well, as I said, they now devote their initiatives to questioning, rejecting and amending the decisions and resolutions of the Community institutions, suggesting that they either have no political representatives in these institutions, or they do not have any interaction with them, or they do not feel represented by them either. They are doing this with the Control Regulation, despite the fact that the representatives of the European People's Party voted in favour of it, and yet the Government and the People's Parliament are twisting reality and suggesting that they have opposed it, that they have opposed that Control Regulation, rather than -- as I have told you on other occasions -- to work all together, each one from its own responsibilities, focusing on the reality of the facts, in which the image of the sector is not distorted, in which efforts made by it are readily recognized, i.e. at this time of pandemic, and since it is working from all administrations to achieve the best possible agreement on the Control Regulation to promote environmental sustainability, but also as we have always defended from the PSdeG, economic and social. And that's what we should focus our efforts on, because this regulation still has a lot to do before it's passed, we can talk about a year ahead, because it still has to be negotiated with the Council. The Government of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group have also been afraid of the climate change law, and yet, when the time comes for truth, when it comes to voting, I am unable to vote against this Climate Change Act. [[Applause]] I ask them, please, to leave the demagogy, gentlemen of the People's Party, and to be more coherent between what they say and what they do. And now they are launching an initiative to reject the European Parliament resolution of 21 January 2021 on an increase in fishing resources at sea, measures to promote the recovery of fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield, in particular fish stocks and marine protected areas. I want to mention here -- because Mrs. Egerique was talking about protected marine areas -- that within the LIFE INTEMARES Project, in which the Galician Union itself participates, if they are dealing with these protected marine areas. So what you said here doesn't agree with reality, and the Galician board is involved in that project together with the Ministry of Fisheries. This resolution by the European Parliament is a very ambitious resolution calling for awareness of all the groups involved in the marine world, not only fishing, with a view to a more sustainable future than seeing the improvement of fisheries management to end overfishing; which has recommendations on expanding the network of protected areas and improving their management -- recommendations and non-binding resolutions, Mrs Egerique -- and the need to address other environmental factors that threaten the recovery of fish populations. And Mrs. Egerique said in textual terms that it was attributed -- according to this resolution -- to climate change only to fishing; no, Mrs Egerique, it is not true, and part of the articulate of this resolution is going to analyze other environmental factors. In view of the magnitude of the challenge of new hazards posed by climate change -- I know they're not much to talk about climate change -- it's necessary to adopt a strategy of recovery and recovery from the marine environment, which will, of course, have an effect on our mariners to continue to have a future, that they can continue to live from the sea. I'm sure they, our marine sector, are the most interested in protecting this medium, which is their livelihood. Our fishermen are not criminals, since the PSdG we have always opposed and rejected certain pronouncements by European institutions that made our sailors suspect simply by being sailors. But the whole of these measures envisaged in this resolution will not only achieve the European Union's environmental objectives, but also improve the health of the fish population and benefit our fisheries sector in the long term. Go ahead -- as I always say -- that the PSdG defends and defends that there has to be a balance between the environmental factor and social and economic factors. And also in something relative, or that's touched on in this resolution, like the marine protected areas. But now, like any parliamentary resolution, the result of a transaction between the groups, the text is not shared 100 per cent by any parliamentary group. During the negotiations, the political groups reached 14 commitments, forming the Group of the European People's Party as part of these 9 transactional amendments. For example, the European People's Party was part of the commitments in paragraphs (a) (h) 7, 9, 31, 33, 34, 35 or 38 by setting examples. You are against that, because today is what you are asking for through this initiative to reject this resolution. Look, the fact is that it is difficult to understand how the People's Party objected to paragraph 21, which I read textually: "Ask the Commission to accompany any legislative proposal for impact assessments based on the best possible scientific opinions and in close coordination with local communities and authorities." And then the People's Party votes against, then the People's Party opposes this. But, Mrs. Egerique, what still attracts a lot more attention is that they refuse point 10, and then you turned your mouth to defend the artisanal fishing of Galicia. Point 10, which says: "Consider that special attention and support should be given to artisanal fishing, potentially less intensive in resources and more sustainable, not only from the point of view of biological resource management, but also from a socio-economic point of view." Mrs. Egerique said that this resolution was not speaking anywhere from a socio-economic point of view, and she is speaking precisely when it comes to craft fishing. Are you against protecting our artisanal fishing? Are you opposed to giving him special protection, to pay special attention to our artisanal fishing? Our small-scale artisanal fishing that has been using less harmful techniques for a long time? This local fishing, which creates many jobs and which offers high quality, high quality and more environmentally friendly products, represents the future of European fisheries. And this fishing must be protected by regulations and receive a fair proportion of TACs and quotas assigned to each State. And you're opposed to this, you're opposed to protecting our artisanal fishing. Then they say they're the big advocates of artisanal fishing. So we have tabled an amendment that we understand is more appropriate than the resolution part that you are presenting today. Because the decisive part that you are presenting today is to reject the whole European Parliament resolution, when there are many things that are beneficial to our fishing and our sector. With which, it would be much more likely that we would try to reject those aspects that are harmful to our fleet, particularly our artisanal fishing. And, of course, don't reject everything because there are measures that are very good for our sector and especially for the future of our sector, so our sailors can keep living from the sea. Our amendment is therefore in that sense: the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to address the European Parliament, DG MARE, to reconsider the content of the resolution on an increase in fishing resources at sea. Measures to promote the recovery of fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield, in particular areas of recovery of fish stocks and marine protected areas, in those aspects that may be detrimental to the interests of the Welsh fishing fleet and the sea-industry chain. It's not good to reject all the resolution because there are parts that are indeed beneficial to our fleet. We see how the People's Party is now anxious to amend everything they don't do directly, everything that comes from the Community institutions, as they used to us with the central government. So we understand that our amendment is much better at defending the interests of our fleet. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u172	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Egerique, I have to confess to you that when I saw the complete documentation and read your PNL, I've been blown away by all the alarms. But, indeed, as soon as I began to question the subject and to find out what this resolution was all about, my worst suspicions were actually confirmed and his intervention of a few years ago made it absolutely manifest. You bring here the debate a resolution, that is, it's not a legislative text, not a decision... No, no, a European Parliament resolution with which they do not agree to question it only by the mere fact that it has been promoted by that group, of which it has indeed been promoted by the Greens/ALE, and in addition to the very understanding of you, of your two MEPs -- that you have also named them several times in your intervention -- when -- as you have just been told from the Socialist Party -- these same MEPs voted against issues that in this resolution -- also in this resolution -- we consider fundamental. Finally, it is legitimate for you to present the initiative that you want to reject as well as what you want. But you will recognise, Mrs Egerique, that we are engaged in the European Parliament to examine, contrast and debate resolutions that are not binding on the European Parliament, well, if we are to examine each other, right, because it certainly undermines the work that we can devote to and focus on the decisions of that European Parliament that if they really affect us and that you never have time to bring to this House. And that's a lot, by the way. [[Applause]] You -- you've already mentioned them here but I'm going to quote you some more -- the fishing control regulation itself, the Brexit, the quotas that mine us every year -- that mine our fishing sector every year -- and so many other decisions taken in the European Parliament. Decisions that are voted on, not resolutions; i.e. binding decisions, because you do not bring them here to be debated because the position of your MEPs actually leaves much to be desired -- to our judgment, of course -- and then they have nothing to look at. And so they come here with these things trying to trick the fishing fleet and even in some cases what they vote on there and really here they defend other issues. Well, in any case, as I said is legitimate and, well, we have position on this subject, obviously and therefore we will also expose it. I want to summarize it -- and it's also very simple -- what is our position on this issue, which is gathered in this resolution. The BNG, I say because of the temptation of The Greens, the ALE, etc., that you will probably get back out and that I refuse to enter that subject; of course, I refuse to enter that subject because in any case we can no longer enter into what the MEPs of the People's Party vote in the European Parliament, we can enter into what the Welsh Members of the People's Party vote in Madrid when the People's Party vote one thing and in Madrid they vote another. So I'm not going to go into that question anymore. But, look, our position is next. BNG will always support the study and the measures going on in the three dimensions of the fisheries sector in Galicia; that is, environmental sustainability, but of course also social and economic sustainability. From there? Well, in this resolution there are positive issues and indeed there are really negative ones; they are not all negative ones, Mrs Egerique, as much as you propose the entire rejection of the resolution. For example, we welcome the part of this resolution that speaks of handicraft fishing, of all the support it needs -- especially support it needs, right?, says the resolution -- and of the arts and sustainable procedures on which it is based precisely the craft fishing and the socio-economic importance it has. Of course, you, in the case of craft fishing in this particular resolution, did not support these points in particular. So, I don't know very well what you're here to defend here, or I don't know if they want to be disillusioned now and want all the resolution to be rejected in order to be able to turn back to what they voted for. But, well, the importance of handicraft fishing is really what we do always, in this debate and in anyone, regardless of whether we talk about a resolution or whether we have to stand in front of a regulation such as control or the Brexit adjustment reserve. Moreover, we continue to insist -- and I think we are the only ones in the House -- that the European Union has to address definitely, and once without waiting for the debate of a new reform of fisheries policy, the differentiation between artisanal fishing and industrial fishing; far beyond the criterion of the ship's slender, because the current definition seriously harms Galicia and its fisheries sector. You, for example, aren't for work; of course, and then who defends artisanal fishing? Do you defend this resolution here by bringing the debate and by wanting to reject it or by defending the rest of us at the bottom of the matter? For example, with regard to this resolution, we see it as positive that we are talking about increasing the percentage of quotas allocated to artisanal coastal fishing. Moreover, we argue that artisanal fishing should not be subject to quotas, and you have no problem with that. So let's put it back on the balance. Who's here with facts and votes in favour showing that he's interested in artisanal fishing? We share, Mrs Egerique, that protected marine areas must be effectively protected. Of course, and that they should stay out -- and that's also what we stand for -- of fishing techniques or other economic activities that damage precisely those areas themselves. Now, the ecological value of an area must be preserved, for example, taking into account other activities that do not harm it, that are environmentally friendly and compatible with the protection it is intended, not only with fishing activity. In any case, what is set out in the resolution on 30 % by 2030, so in general, in fact, generally, we understand that it requires more consideration, especially when the resolution seems to refer solely to the reduction of fishing activities, with there being as there are other non-fishing activities that may be, and in fact are both harmful or more. And also in this resolution we find aspects that are not so positive about the impact of our fishing industry and our country as a whole. For example, at some points that focus on overfishing, where the proposals that talk about keeping fish populations above the levels of the maximum sustainable yield, we don't think they're achievable. And more than that, we don't know any arguments and studies precisely that endorse that proposal. Finally, expanding the banana and analyzing all the factors that affect fishing activity, all of them, not just focusing on fishing opportunities. From the Galician Nationalist Block, we want the content of this resolution to be reconsidered. Let them reconsider above all those aspects, some of which have just been named, in which we believe that this text can be greatly improved in favour of mainly craft fishing. Now you yourself recognize in your explanatory statement -- and I read textual -- "the sector already has enough environmental pressure." You call environmental pressure on the European Union's hyperregulation. And it says, "It has to face challenges -- you call them challenges to the political decisions that are deliberately taken against our fishing and, in particular, our artisanal fishing -- you have to face challenges like those of the effects of the landing obligation, Brexit, the pandemic, etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, what I'm telling you, what you call challenges, we qualify them as political decisions that are made to harm specific sectors like our fishing sector. They are agreements that uniform the whole fleet of the European Union, or that want to standardize it, regardless of the singularities of our country and the singularities of our fishing fleet. Finally, Your Honor, we have no problem debating this resolution and everything you bring here. Now, we would like you to bring here the subjects that are really subject to political decision, also in the European Parliament, and that in any case also have the position of the People's Party against our own fishing sector. And there we will see who would be, which group, of which Member or Member would be the lucidation; of course, of their not, Mrs Egerique. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u174	Well, thank you, President. How important are people, who are important to the Greek MEPs who work, who amend, who come from Europe as they directly affect this legislation here. It is no question of anyone's lucidity, that there are Members who win their seats with their votes, and there are people who are advising other groups, such as Bildu, like ERC, like the Greens and now arrive here and deny that they belong to the Greens. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Otero, both Mrs. Otero and Mrs. Pérez throw us in the face of lack of foresight, they're always improvising, they don't do anything to you, how do they bring here something that is not yet to be applied, which is not binding? Look, it's trends. I spoke in my first intervention of a trend, we're working, this is what the sector is talking about, the sector knows what's going to come with this legislation, this kind of regulation, this kind of diet of people from Sweden, people from the Greens who don't know the reality of our Galician rivers. So, we're moving forward and we mean here clearly that this is the greatest, the greatest defense we can make of our craft fleet. That as much as you say and now say, they accuse us of all evil, as they have done in Article 18. Then at the end they ended up taking their hands to the head and always adding to our demands, because they also said that we were getting scared, that that wouldn't affect at all. When these debuggers are closed, when the canteens are closed, you will come here and continue to accuse the People's Party, when at first you wanted to strengthen from Galicia, not to remove a law of climate change, not to eliminate a law of climate change, to eliminate an article. What bothers you, Mrs. Otero, very, very much, very much, very much is that we know how to combine climate change and environmental protection with the defence of the fisheries sector. [[Murmurs.]] And you can't understand it, you can't understand it, you can't understand it, there's no dichotomy, it's not incompatible. All the truths must be put on the table. And I do say that Mr. Millán Mon is making a defense of fishing in Galicia with those amendments he presents. You haven't drafted a single amendment and yet voted in favour of this dictatorship, voted in favour there in Europe. Mr. Jesús Gamallo will also represent Galicia on the Committee of the Regions and will defend with his 14 amendable aspects of what I've talked about here that some of you also share with us, too. It's important, it's very important to talk and move forward and from Galicia to put the voice in Europe so they know and really know what our fishing industry is like. Look, as I said, I've told you before, Mrs. Otero, we don't throw pests, as you say, from the Climate Change Act; we throw pests -- if you want me to say that -- from article 18 of the Climate Change Act, which is an amendment to the Rules of the Back Law through the back door to directly harm the chain of the sea industry. And we can no longer explain it, because it is more than explained, that voted, claimed by the sector, by this Parliamentary Group and by you too, at first not, but then yes, by profile, that yes, that no. We voted in favour of the Climate Change Act and amended that article. We do not want that article 18. So you, if you don't know or don't want to legislate together and combine the protection of the environment, the Climate Change Act with the fisheries sector, that's also compatible and can be done, it's compatible and it can be done. In addition, by talking, negotiating and warning the Greens in Europe, warning The Greens and the environmental radicalism that Galicia is the first to take care of our rivers and our protected areas, because I am reading here or 43, or 43: "It agrees with the objective that 10% of the European Union's seas should benefit from a high level of protection, with areas in which any catch and any economic activity is prohibited". That's what a person comes from Europe and closes the line of Arousa and doesn't let him swim anymore. That may happen. So this is getting ahead, this is getting ahead and seeing how things can come. So, we at first... from Pontevedra, from Arousa and, Mrs. Otero, please, I tell you that with regard to your amendment, we have a compromise proposal, we believe that ours is significantly harder with this initiative, we believe that we have to be tough with the initiative, of entry; therefore, I propose, I will not read here, repeat a possible transaction, I will pass the text to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we accept it, we will vote and if we do not, we will keep the initiative as we put it forward. I want to finish by saying that fishing has the green suit set every day, but it seems to be transparent to some people's eyes, which sometimes marks as a suspect and when not openly responsible for all the evils that affect the oceans. I really recommend that you read these reports, all the points quietly, a day without hurry at home to see how this can directly attack our fishing sector. So fishing is not a problem with climate change, just part of the solution to it. Fishing needs clean and healthy oceans to fulfill its mission, which is nothing more than providing high-quality animal protein, which is also the lowest environmental impact. We will continue to work for the fair balance between environmental sustainability and the economic, social and employment dimensions of fisheries. While the future of the planet must be green and blue, we must also ensure that the future of the fisheries sector is of all the men and women who live and work in it, and who place their trust in political representatives, first of all here in Galicia, but also in Brussels, so they have names and surnames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the design by the German Government of an investigative career
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u176	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mrs Sandra Vázquez Domínguez, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this proposal:Replacement AmendmentYou must replace the text of the resolution by the following:"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to design an investigative career, in dialogue with the agents involved, from the maximum with respect to the autonomy of the University System of Galicia (SUG), and in accordance with the basic legislation of the Science, Technology and Innovation Law, in which the following aspects are included:1.- Be addressed in a comprehensive manner, and therefore involves all areas of government with competence in relation to the I+D+i.2.-]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u177	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we're talking about science and research here in the Chamber. They know that for BNG is a strategic sector, not only in the economic environment that grew because of the pandemic caused by Covid-19, but as a central element for Galicia's economic, social and cultural development. But our country is too far away today from betting on science and research as such, as a strategic sector. Public and private investment figures in our country show this, we continue below 1 % investment in R & D+i in relation to gross domestic product, we are far from the state average that with the latest data published by INE in 2019 it was 1.24%, and far from the European average, which is between 2 % and 2.5 %. But today from the BNG Parliamentary Group, we wanted to focus on this initiative not so much on investment, not so much on the budgetary resources that we have devoted to the policy of R & D+i in our country, which we also insist on the need to increase the budgetary effort in this area and, above all, to ensure stability and consistency in investment both public and private, but today what we wanted is to focus this time on the central element, on the driving force of R & D+i policy, which people are. Without science there is no future, that I think this pandemic has made it clearer than ever before, but without working conditions and wages worthy of the investigator's staff there is no science possible. What is the situation we have today in our country? Well, in addition to the little investment in R & D+i -- I insist -- below 1 % of GDP, far from investing in this country more than a decade ago, the lack of a clear and well-defined research career in all its stages, from training to professionals, makes the economic effort, in addition to being small, inefficient. And we're going to contextualize why we say this, why the situation we have today about the different possibilities in our research and technologist career in our country is not always what we have today. Since 2011 the People's Party has been dismantling the steps forward that have been taken in the design of a research and technological career through -- they will remember -- of Plan Incite. There had been three stages defined in the development of that research career, a phase of training, incorporation and consolidation of the career for both the researcher staff and, above all, for the technologist staff and support in the research groups. They will surely remember their lordships names such as the Maria Barbeito program, which were the pre-doctoral, the Angeles Alvarino or Isidro Parga Pondal program, or the program of consolidation of the research career Manuel Colmeiro. With regard to the technological career, there were also three clearly defined stages, with three training, incorporation and consolidation programs: Lucas Labrador, Isabel Barretto and Eloy Luis André. All this was settled and progressively completed between the years 2011 and 2016, and replacing it with different programs that actually incorporate less squares, worse wage conditions, less contract duration and, above all, leaves our country in an essential phase in the research career, which is that of consolidation. And this is a central theme, a central theme. Galicia today lacks a self-consolidation programme, which makes our country's investigators depend on essentially state and also Community or European calls. Today, to explain or briefly describe the programmes that exist, which are currently in force, there are pre-doctoral calls. This year's 2021 call for 102 pre-doctoral contracts to develop this initial research work; Maria Barbeito, to remember, had 161 pre-doctoral contracts, today we have 102. Or that post-doctoral summons that were absolutely rocambolesque, still being, and that came to replace the Parga Pondal program. Today, you know, that post-doctoral call from the Galician Board is three years long and is convened this year 2021 49 helpers. The Parga Pondal program -- they'll remember -- it was five years, three plus two extensions, and 138 squares were called. In the case of the technological career for technologist staff, which is essential for the development of research work in groups and laboratories, which is also focused not only on staff who have a university career, but also on incorporating vocational training into the generation of knowledge, this is essential, because the Higher Vocational Training has very much to approach the social and economic development of this country, they have also eliminated -- as I told them earlier -- all there was to replace it with a single program, which is the principle program, which they know are contracts directed to technologist staff, addressed to the private sector and also to public non-university research centres and which has a minimum duration of one year to incorporate technical personnel between 18 and 35. There is also the Talent Senior, which is a program that is presented, at least in its summons, on its bases, as of attraction and return of talent, but which is really not a contract, but an incentive to hire, where the Board of Galicia does it is to provide 40 or 60 % of the labour cost of the contract, for a period of three years. It's asked, for an idea, more work experience to compete with the call of time that is likely to last the contract itself. What situation does this leave us? There's enormous instability, even in the frequency of calls. Let us remember that post-Doubt contracts in 2020 were not convened, just as in 2015 they were once again as a blank year. And these periods are precisely empty for the investigator's staff to whom people have to continue to produce, they have to continue to carry on their research in order not to lose competitiveness, but without any kind of contract or wage for that work. The consequences that Galicia thus lacks an integral programme of human resources in research, which is what the BNG defends here today, in addition to the enormous precariousness and instability accompanying researchers and researchers in our country, causes Galicia to lose a huge human capital, formed in addition to a great economic effort by the entire society of this country, and with it we also lost knowledge and economic return that would report to Galicia the mobilization of research and development resources if these people could develop their research career here. We lose money with that which is commonly known as the escape of talents or the escape of brains. To put numbers on that count, how much do Galicia lose with all the people who, if they can't develop their research career here, have to pick up their suitcases and leave like so many other professions and workers in our country? According to estimates made by the Galician Research Network -- they know it very well -- Research, the investment that we make the whole society of this country to form a doctor, we can figure it out at 78,800 euros and a graduate at more than 200,000. This, said otherwise, Galicia and the whole of Welsh and Germans are forming talent with an important public investment to export it to other countries and generate wealth and knowledge out of here; something like giving you very well-trained workers to Germany or the United Kingdom and then importing their knowledge. And the best example of this is exactly in the vaccines we're fighting the Covid pandemic. But not only have we lost the money that is invested in the formation of that personal doctor, postdoctor or other stages of the research career, but we have also lost the economic return that reports science and research to any country that puts it as a strategic sector. By putting three examples: the Basque, the Ikerbasque, for every million euros you invest, has a return of two million; the case of the ICREA, for every million you invest, has between two and half and three million returns; and the CiQUS, by setting an example here, also of the huge potential we have as a country if we do things well, capture, mobilizes six million euros each year through their projects and research groups. This demonstrates the enormous potential that Galicia has because if, with this situation, with this empirical investment and the lack of a research career, we are able to get CiQUS to be among the best research centers in the Spanish state, if we do things right and start doing them as we should have done in the last decade, we can get this country forward and launch it into the future. [[Applause]] We're talking about figures, but behind the figures there are people, people like Adrián Cordido, who's a predoctoral worker in the IDIS research group, who's about to finish the thesis, who's been talking to research groups in the United States for months, and the other day he said to a media outlet here in Santiago, he said, "The problem is not going away, the problem is going back. If there were any possibilities, we would talk about international mobility but this is emigration." Andrés Pérez is 43 years old, has been 15 linking temporary contracts leading research groups, with no vision of being able to stabilize. Or Manuel Collado, who runs the Laboratory of Cells Mother, Cancer and Ageing at IDIS, to whom he just renewed the contract for a year, for a year, and is head of group. If the lead investigator is in these conditions, how will he work, under what conditions, the technical staff of his lab? What we propose today -- and with this ending, president -- since BNG, is to start changing things. And to start changing things, you have to design a complete research career, to make a clear definition of the different stages of the research career, from the formative above all, to the consolidation phase, which is one of the great tasks pending here in Galicia, which gives certainty and stability, which guides also the professional career of people who want to investigate in our country, which allows you to retain the enormous talent that Galicia has and also capture talent outside our borders. And I end with a question that is fundamental to us, because in addition to the investment -- I said at the beginning -- it's as important as making a constant investment in time and enough to ensure that those economic resources are going to stop where they are needed and that they are managed efficiently by ensuring good working conditions and decent wages for the investigator's staff. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Research, as the proposal of this non-law proposal well commented, is a fundamental element, a key and strategic element for reactivation, for progress and for Galicia's growth, and there we all agree absolutely. Before often breaking down the three points of the non-law proposition of the proposed group, of the Galego Nationalist Block, it's appropriate to post a manifesto where we left from. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting from a state policy framework, which is Law 14/2011, June 1, science, technology and innovation. Recently, at the end of March, the competent minister in this area, Mr Duque, raised to the Council the draft law amending Law 14/2011, science, technology and innovation. The branch minister, in the so-called preliminary draft, proposes, among other things, to create a model of recruitment which consists mainly of a fixed contract, subject to external evaluation. What the minister didn't count on is the veto and the frontal opposition of both his government partner, United Nations Podemos, trade unions and his own researchers. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context of uncertainty, until a new state framework is reached, Galicia cannot legislate on its own, it must refuse by that new state framework, as it did when it drafted Galicia's Law 5/2013 on encouragement, research and innovation. They observe and once again ignore the autonomous communities, which in the face of reform of this scale should be addressed from the scope of dialogue and consensus with the actors involved. But it doesn't end there, gentlemen, because in February the Minister of Universities, Mr. Castells, announced the bomb and plate a new university law that will again affect important entities of the I+D+i issue. Ladies and gentlemen, at the state level we have two ministries: on the one hand, Science and Innovation, and on the other, Universities; that is, two ministers, Mr. Duke and Mr. Castells. What are they doing? Easy: a lot of disappointment and little involvement. While the state coalition government decides what it will do, Galicia is making an important budgetary effort to support research in the universities of the Galician University System, with support that remained even during the economic crisis. Since 2009, around 500 million euros have been mobilized to maintain and develop the research structures of the three Greek universities. By placing a data on the table, the latest survey of the National Institute of Statistics on R & D-related activities, shows that past legislation between 2016 and 2019, Galicia increased investment in R & D by 24.5%, seven points more than the average of Spain. Mrs. Rodil, I think it's obvious a really important aspect. You ask for dialogue, but only with one part, forget that in the process there are also other agents, other institutions, like universities. He's talking about dialogue with the organizations representing the German investigator's staff. Why is it that it lacks such an important institution as universities? He didn't even name them. In dialogue is success, it is not acceptable for an institution as important as a university institution to be left aside and the autonomy of this institution to be neglected. The already consolidated model of research in Greece is one of the first five communities of the state in support of research. The research career must be developed in dialogue with the agents involved from the very top with regard to the autonomy of the Greek university system and in accordance with the basic regulations of the Science, Technology and Innovation Act. By analysing the initiative, the resolution, Mrs Rodil, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to welcome you and thank you for proposing something we agree on, and I say it in total solemnity. See if we agree that an interdepartmental commission has already been set up to enhance, coordinate the research and innovation of our community; ultimately, order the management of the Galician board of R & D+i in a single body. The committee improves the coordination of the various departments of the Union with the aim of planning targets and carrying out projects to implement the funds available in this area, greater effectiveness and strengthening of Galicia's innovative ecosystem. Addressing the second point of his initiative, which is envisaged at all stages from the training to the professional. Look, the Welsh model is very focused on cooperation with universities, through the specialization of campuses, the singular research centres and autonomic funding, recruitment by research universities, as well as the maintenance of research groups, the scientific and research career and the process that has been developed since the beginning of the predoctoral training phase until the researcher settles permanently at a university in the German university system or also at another research post. The new call to which you referred together by the General Secretariat of Universities and GAIN for assistance to predoctoral and postdoctoral training is the one of the largest contracts held so far in Galicia: 175 contracts and exceed the 17 million euros, Mrs Rodil, to facilitate the work of researchers and, given the current health context, the periods of stay in the foreign country, where they can be developed at any other time over the three years of contract. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is the only autonomous community with a comprehensive research training programme. This is an important differential fact, which puts the Welsh researchers in a favourable position with regard to the rest of Spain. It should be made clear that it has been transferred, by the agents involved, that the actions of the Greek Government to extend the contracts and finance -- do not forget to finance -- until December 2020, providing coverage to researchers for six more months so that they would not be harmed by the confinement of the pandemic the cause of cowardice-19. Prorogate and finance. And by third point of his initiative, he included the gender perspective in a cross-sectional way to prevent discrimination from taking place and reproducing situations of discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, the three representative parliamentary groups in this Parliamentary House work to avoid gender discrimination. At the plenary session on 9 and 10 March, my Parliamentary Group tabled a non-legislative proposal, which was adopted unanimously, in order to introduce the necessary actions to ensure the incorporation and participation of the Women's and Science Unit of entities and collective representatives from the area of inquiry in Greece, and from which there was already the first meeting. Moreover, at the plenary session of 23 March, the draft law amending the Legislative Decree 2/2015 was adopted to include those correction mechanisms for public R & D+i calls, to avoid such discrimination, which was also adopted unanimously. It's good to remember the improvements in calls to avoid gender discrimination. At the 2021 calls, a number of improvements were introduced with regard to previous calls directed, precisely, to avoid gender discrimination. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government is facing the R & D+i bet as a matter of priority. Frankly, Mrs. Rodil, I have been one by one of each of its points in the resolution, and the Government of Greece is permanently involved in each of its three aspects: the establishment of an interdepartmental commission; the intense work of each of the steps of pre, post and consolidation; and thirdly, ensuring the incorporation and participation of the Women's and Science Unit in the representative entities and collectives of the research area in Greece. We have tabled a completely acceptable substitution amendment, with maximum respect to the autonomy of the Galician University System and according to state legislation, counting on its acceptance, because we must not forget the fundamental role that universities have. Finished, President. R+D+i is a priority area of action for the German Government. As my intervention began, so I want to finish, showing the firm commitment to transforming the economic model into a competitive and sustainable economy, based on knowledge and talent, which accelerates economic growth and boosts employment and social well-being. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u180	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u181	Thank you, President. I wanted to begin my intervention by demonstrating our, my total rejection of the anti-democratic behaviour of the People's Party of Galicia, which wants to expel from politics the candidate who won the municipal elections in Ourense, Rafael Villarino, who from here I also transfer all my support. Faced with the blackmail of Mr Feijóo and Mr Baltar, democracy. [[Applause]] A few days ago a popular leader and also a deputy in this House, in a very illustrative telephone conversation, opened a debate with me about the different ways of understanding and political making. I wonder if this one from Ourense is the way to make politics, to understand it from the whole People's Party. Politics, politics -- and so they taught me at home -- you always have to go by the hand of ethics, always! above all and always in ethics. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And now yes, and now yes we are going to the debate of this proposal not of law. In fact, at the plenary session on 9 March, the councillor appeared and announced the design of a new scientific career in the Galician University System and spoke of enhancing that CIGUS network, made up of eight research centres in the Greek universities. The truth is that we know nothing more until now, except what we have just told the spokesperson of the People's Party, that there is a commission, we celebrate it, but the reality is that publicly we know nothing more until now; and much less we don't know about the centers where research is carried out that do not belong to any university in Greece. Of course, research in our country is centralized in most of the SUGs, and it's something we applaud, well, but there are other organisms where research is also done and those that need to be answered as well. We're not going to give figures here or talk about the past because it has already been explained very well by the BNG spokeswoman, Mrs. Rodil. If we want from the PSdeG in some way to show some mistrust about that desire of the Galician board announced by the councillor, every time in our country the investigator's staff isn't having a good time, or the German Government is making it easy for him. There's no more to see, it's already said here what happened last year with postdoc contracts, which for three times we brought to this Parliament, for three times in this legislation. And that, in spite of the steps taken, lukewarm, this conflict is not solved or much less. Neither is the question of equality, nor is that question solved. If it were, or if we thought it would be, with the impulse or the establishment of that research career that today brings here the Nationalist Block Galego, but, of course, we have to believe it, because the Government is talking about research career but the reality is that it trumps those that already exist, as we're already seeing. That failure of the research career in our country, which also hurts with the absence of R & D+i policy and contractual figures that consolidate our personal researcher and technical, cause such uncertainty situations that result in such unwanted brain drain. Personal qualified researcher actually formed with public money, formed with our money, who accept offers in other countries because they give it greater stability. They and they want to come back, they want to come back and contribute in addition to the progress of our country, because we're talking about science, but it's their own government in this case who's cutting his wings to do it. That lack of stability penalizes not only professional careers and their lines of research, but also somehow penalizes institutions, because they see, they're resigned, like all the staff that have been training for years at the end goes to work in other countries and other prestigious research centers. And here, as we also said, we also have research centers of prestige. We cannot afford, we cannot afford to allow all efforts in that degree, postgraduate, and predoc and postdoc training, to be finally taken advantage of by other countries which are aware of the importance of investment in research resources. So let's start by taking seriously the concern about that researcher's tissue, we invest in them and in them, but really, not with speeches or announcements without more content. We have greatly increased research funds. We don't want to go in today either, I don't think it's the debate, but it's really important to say that by the year 2020-2021, for this exercise, chapter II promoting R+D+i has increased by two million, but they know that deep down it's almost a trap, because that game has risen by three million copper funds, so we can talk about a million less. Look, the research career, if everything goes well, if everything goes well, the research career begins with a predoctoral stage that always culminates in a doctoral thesis, a stage that can last about three or four years. Then we moved on to the post-doctoral stage, which can cover between three and six years. It's true that times here are lax and different depending on each case. Then there's a final stage, the consolidation stage, that's already panacea, that's all that comes, but there's one last step that's that anticipated of consolidation, which can last between six and nine years or so. By doing an average, and we don't say this, we say it by the research staff associations, by doing an average, we're talking almost in the best cases of 14 years. A research career can last up to 14 years, to become a professional, research professional and to have professional stability. I don't know if any of us here might think it took us 14 years, 14 years!, to stabilize ourselves professionally in whatever our scope is. 14 years, yes, but, of course, even above these 14 years, they're not continuous either, there's lots, lots of dead moments in those 14 years, so many that we can say that whoever ends his research career, or fortunately had a lot of luck, those people well, or they're some and some brave people who show such a vocation with their perseverance that in the end what we can have others is absolute admiration for those people. Because, in fact, many of these researchers and researchers end up giving up. By the way, we've already said here at other times in this plenary session, most women, in that concept known as "the dripping tubing," we've talked a lot about this issue. So it also seems important to us the third point of the proposal that is being brought here to this House today. To give this necessary turning to this unfair and prejudicial situation for Galicia, also for these researchers and researchers, but also for Galicia, we must increase the chapter on research budget and ensure a genuine research career. We cannot dispense with these crucial human resources to guarantee the future of our country. The Rectors had already warned in the parliamentary commission of reactivation for months: it is necessary to start the research career at universities and research centers, and to regulate the formulae of dedication to research activity. Because, how far is the system able to maintain and capture all the talent in Galicia, and how far are the funding programs that exist to incorporate new talent? Now, if you'll excuse me, in the time I'm left, I wanted to talk now about college. We agreed with this proposal that it should not only be from the university of what we should talk about, but that this research career should involve all areas with competences in R & D+i, but if we do so, one, by the current issue of public university and also because the spokesperson of the People's Party spoke about university. The three Rectors, the three Rectors in that commission, warned that it was necessary to change this university funding; they asked for a structural formula that would make it not all research contracts have to come through the way of work and services, but there could be structural contracts that were not simply conjunctural to a project. Because what you can't guarantee, for example, colleges are hiring a person to do a research career when the endorsement behind them is only a project that can last a year, two years, three years. By the way, another fundamental issue is that it is also closely related to these structural funds and that from then on to the GSP is very important. For our personal investigator to stabilize, it's also necessary to have stable research structures. So, and I'm still echoing what the principals said, what the three directors of the public universities claimed, we talked about two binomies that go together, and they apologize for redundancy, but I think it'll get better as well. We are talking about the development and stabilization of the structural staff framework and structural funds to ensure structures. In short, it is necessary and urgent a decent professional career, because it will be the basis of a stable and quality scientific system, essential for our country's progress. By the way, we also want to make an incision here, we're talking about a professional career for the researcher's staff, but also about specialized research support staff, both technical and management. We know that this is not the first announcement, the first attempt by the German Government to establish a career, they have been on the subject for years, but it has always been paralyzed by what is already common in this Government, the lack of dialogue. There is no dialogue in this Government, no dialogue. So you're sorry, and I'm sorry you're talking about the amendment here too, which I know is not up to me, but you're feeling and talking about the representative organizations of the German investigator's staff and also about the agents involved, but I understand and I don't know, that I didn't write this proposal, but I understand that the will was the agents involved, obviously, will always be in a negotiation process. But what we're trying to do is to feel who they've never sat with, which is with the Welsh researcher tissue. The innovative capacity of our country depends on this, depends on what you do; it's urgent and we're, as I say, at a crucial moment in order to give an impetus to Galician science. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u183	Thank you, President. First of all, thanks also to the Socialist Party's Member and Spokesman, Mrs Díaz, for her support and for her intervention, which we fully agree with the issues she was pointing out. Indeed, we need record and especially that investments are maintained over time. And about that, because when I saw the amendment, Mrs Vázquez, and you introduced -- and then I'll talk about it -- the element of the basic state legislation, the Science, Technology and Innovation Act, which at the moment is 2011 and we don't know what this reform proposal is going to be like these days. But to me what seems to me, I already figured out where your intervention would go, here any chance is good to screw the Government of Spain, they have a Duke, we have a Count. Because speaking of fragmentation between ministries... here, as everyone knows, it's not duplicated, it's tripled; here there's competences in the Education and University Council, there's competences in GAIN and the Vice-Presidency and Innovation Council; and there's competences, and very important, in the Health Council and especially in ACIS. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] To divide you also divide and fragment what must be an integral policy, hence the first part of our proposal today, which goes not only to education who pilots the design of that research career, but also to cover and involve all the areas of government that have competence in research and innovation. And you made reference, besides using a term that was that there was a context of uncertainty that couldn't trace, design that research career, because you don't know what's going to happen. And I was wondering, and for the last 12 years, what was the excuse for dismantling what was there, to worsen the working conditions and to get rid of -- as I explained in my first intervention -- the programs that were launched in the wake of the Incite Plan and that were taken away, remaining opportunities within that investigative career to the investigator staff in our country? [[Applause]] And that we must also insist, because you do a lot of stress always that Galicia is one of the ones that has increased your investment most. Of course, well, that's a little tricky, because what they did before was cut. We have an investment in GDP that is below what was in 2008; we have passed by 1% -- a little more than that 1% -- of investment in R+D+i in relation to GDP today we are at 0.94%. Then it's cheating, because it's previously cut. What they're trying to do now is go back up places to put that investment far away from what it should be, but get back what there was before, which is that 1%. And then, of course, every time I hear that of the Greek model, it boils me down inside, because the model of this country isn't this, it's not. And you were talking about a full research career, and I'm asking you what's the consolidation phase? Because the people who consolidate their research career in a very precarious way, because the state calls don't give stability either, it's in the process precisely that Ramón y Cajal, that Miguel Servet or others like Juan de la Cerva or others who have or come from the community, the European Research Council. There's no program of consolidation of Galicia's own research career, and there's no need for any state law to do it. And we have examples of how it can be done and very close to us. The Portuguese case is very interesting, but above all we still have them closer, because for now we all belong to the Spanish state, which is the Basque case or the Catalan case. And, of course, as someone who listens to us from outside knows a little what R & D+i policy is in Euskadi, Catalonia or Navarra! Because speaking here of all the stages and a phase of consolidation of the research career in Galicia, do you know what it really is to consolidate? Go to the Ikerbasque page, I think it is the second call that appears on the website, which is called a call for September 2020, permanent positions, which are 10 permanent contracts; not three years, which is what the Galician Union offers with that Talent Senior, we talk about permanent contracts. As long as you like, you develop your research project in Euskadi in this case. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because there's a -- which was what I was trying to point out and underline -- maybe less correct than I should -- here's Tucum Investment, which is, hiring a group leader, a lead researcher, that person will get resources in international calls -- some of the Spanish state, other communities, other areas that transcend the European Union itself -- and he's going to be able to pick up and mobilize a number of resources that will allow us to withdraw possibly five or ten from a contract. And that's where we have to put ourselves, in stable contracts that allow with guarantees and with certainty to develop that research career in our country. And that's not just a three-year contract that requires five to be able to compete with him with professional experience. Actually, university autonomy is sacred, but it's already in the law, it doesn't need to be repeated constantly. Because if you've come back to yourself a parapet, another excuse- argument for not doing anything at all; what violates university autonomy is the SUGG funding plan of Galicia's own board. That's what conditions the politics of our country's universities! [[Applause]] And indeed, 70 percent of the knowledge generation in our country is linked to the university, to the public university, because that private university project in Abanca is allowed and the red carpet is placed so that it doesn't link its university project... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u185	...with that which requires the law, which is also to have an investigation program. If the commitment of what you were talking about, Mrs Vázquez, is real, I am sure that they will vote in favour of the initiative as presented by the Galician Nationalist Block. We're not going to accept the amendment because we understand it doesn't add anything new or add anything -- and with all my respect for your work, understand me well -- to the original initiative. And we also believe that it is a minimum GNP; I insist, if that commitment of what they are talking about is real, they will vote in favour. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the charges of the autonomous motorways AG-55, The Coruña-Carballo, and AG-57, Puisseros-Val Minor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u187	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presents the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Add to the end of the resolution a new point 3 with the following text:"3. As long as the provisions of point 1 are not applied, approval shall be made for AG 55 and AG 57 at least the same rates as those applied in AP 9 which are already in force.']] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. In the 1990s the Junta de Galicia built two roads of special interest for the economic and social development of the urban contours of the cities of Coruña and Vigo, such as AG-55 and AG-57 respectively. Both were built with the aim of decongesting existing roads, increasing the road safety of citizens and citizens traveling by them, and increasing the competitiveness of companies that develop their economic activity around them. The first one, AG-55, between The Coruña and Carballo, was born as a free and public vial and, as such, was inaugurated in 1993 the plot between The Coruña and The Laracha. Until 1997, at the time of the opening of the second stretch between Laracha and Carballo, he privatized himself and became a toll-track in a real spore process to those people who were expropriated to their lands for the construction of what was to be a public highway. From the very first moment he had a strong social opposition, something that continues to be present today because of the economic disaster that it entails for the Comarcas of the Coruña, Bergantiños and the Costa da Morte; and also the scourge that it entails for the settlement of population in the rural areas of the above-mentioned districts. Because betting on the countryside, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is more than calling in a publicity campaign a legislation like the legislation of the rural. And we see how this rural legislation has ended, without facts, without any facts, because it has not been affixed by quality public education, it has not been affixed by quality public health in our rural areas, nor has it been affixed by infrastructures that are also necessary to establish population in our rural areas. As I said, since the Junta had announced in July 1990 the project of this highway, which would then become the freeway between Coruña and Carballo, there has been a strong social opposition which led to one of the greatest protest citizens of our community with various demonstrations and closures. The first plot -- opened, as I said, on September 26, 1993 between The Crown and The Laracha -- was a whole party. The story changed, because in December 1997, when the second stretch between Laracha and Carballo was opened, this stretch was opened in secret at night and with a group of riots and police cordon to prevent the approach of some 200 members of the Free Highway Platform. The first Welsh highway -- as it had announced to the Galician Union on its day -- was also the first to pay for surprise and indignation of the corrupt and bergantiña regions. They've been expropriated to neighbors and neighbors of this county to do a toll-track. They were deceived, and tricked, they were told that they were expropriated to make a free and free bus; and finally, the Galician Union made a free highway. This highway, which was done in theory to revitalize depressed areas, eventually what he did was the opposite, penalize them. Some neighbor came to expropriate 8,000 square meters of land that already had all the licenses to build a house, and, after cheating on it, to expropriate it by telling him that it was going to be a free toll-free bus, when he uses this highway, he has to pay for it. First they announced the bomb and the plate from the Galician Junta -- how they like to do so much -- that it would be a free toll-free bus and eventually turned it into a toll-free highway. The chosen plot, the amount of expropriations fixed, the surprising imposition of fees, the damage caused by the flights generated the neighboring response, also among the mayors of the People's Party itself. Even the People's Party itself came to pass a non-law proposal in which it claimed to the Galician Union that it executed a highway and not a highway, and that it was free of charge. But the Galician People's Party Board, making deaf ears, made a toll highway whose concession was extended to the year 2045; and the price of these fees is excessive, and the rise of the price of the same round 70%. The neighbours and neighbours of these neighborhoods, as well as the political representatives of all colors and the Provincial Deputies of the Crown themselves continue to demand the elimination of these peas that punish the Costa da Morte and Berganginos. And Junta keeps making deaf ears. On the other hand, in 1999, with a Unity of Galicia also governed by the People's Party -- which of these had already removed the mask and already made a bet determined by the construction of the highway toll -- it inaugurated AG-57 between Puxeiros and the Val Minor. And from there, the municipalities of Baiona, Nigrán and Gondomar, who are deeply affected by the abusive beaches of the so-called highway, ask for their elimination not to spoil the economy of their businesses and to be able to connect the municipalities of the county to the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, the University of Vigo, the Airport of Peinador or the Technology Park of Valadares, free of charge. The councils of Val Minor, as well as their political representatives, including those of the People's Party, since the motions presented in these councils were unanimously adopted, have been demanding for years to release the weight of this highway by constituting a vital infrastructure for its neighbourhood, with the social and economic advantages that would result from this action, such as the security and traffic or the disconnection of its own highway, as well as the increase of business competitiveness. Both highways, AG-55 and AG-57, have strong similarities and in their fields have been asking for their liberalisation for the reasons listed above, and to contribute to achieving greater equity and equality, since the Galician Union has for years been carrying out its actions on highways and highways by systems that do not impose any toll on citizens. So it is more incomprehensible that the neighbours and neighbours of Val Minor and Costa da Morte and Bergantiños are worse off in front of the rest of Galician citizenship, as the total number of high-performance routes of the autonomous community are free: AG-56, Santiago-Brion; AG-53, Ourense-Dozón; AG-54, which connects Carballin's cores with AG-53, by setting some examples. And yet in AG-55 and AG-57 abusive peas extended by the People's Party until the year 2045. In its own Law 8/2013, of roads in Galicia, there was already this possibility that we would bring this initiative, since in its Article 30.2 it was said that: "In the trajectories of roads where a payment of fees or fees is made for its use, the incumbent administration may establish compensatory measures or procedures that will be reduced or annulled by the user directly". So there's an old claim, there's a finding of the facts that it's necessary to liberalize these fees and there's legal support to do so. It's only necessary that the Galician Union decide and want to do it. On the other hand, the Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser reduced the fare of the Welsh buses, but which would only apply to transport companies and at night hours. And he announced he would do it for numerous families as well. Positive measures? Yes. What is the Socialist Party opposed to? No, no, no, no. But there are insufficient measures for the Greek citizenship concerned, so from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we request that the Galician Union, on the one hand, present within six months the necessary studies to liberalise the costs of self-sufficient motorways of the autonomous community, AG-55 and AG-57; and, on the other hand, to immediately establish the reduction of the fees for all users of the aforementioned autonomous motorways by exceeding the framework set out in Decree 183/2015. The Galician Union cannot continue with this policy of arms falling with the motorways of its competition, while the Central Government, chaired by Pedro Sánchez, rewards the peas of AP-9, historical bonus of the AP-9 peas that will materialize thanks to the approval of the general budgets of the State. Therefore, it is time for the Union to place these districts in equal conditions with respect to other territories of Galicia. It's time to make life easier and more comfortable for your neighbors and your neighbors, thus also promoting proximity tourism and economic recovery of these, so necessary at the moment we are living. And it's time to move forward towards a model where every galego and every gale can move along all of the yellow tracks regardless of their level of income. And the German Government has funds and competences to reduce fees that are a burden and a burden that makes it difficult for the transport and mobility of Greek citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u190	So, we believe it's an old claim, it's a historical claim and that the Galician Union has to bet on already liberalizing these fees and not just spending its time throwing balloons out and asking other administrations to do what she doesn't do. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u192	This proposal can be said to be divided into two parts. One that refers to the abolition of the rates on these two buses: AG-55, which communicates The Coruña with Carballo, and AG-57, which communicates Vigo with Baiona, with Val Minor. And another, a second part, which is the reduction in the abusive fees currently charged. The BNG, of course, shares these two proposals, firstly because we have also put forward initiatives in the same direction on numerous occasions, because there is a unanimous demand, a cry in these districts, in all the municipalities with plenary agreements, also in the Deputies, and of municipalities of all the political colors in favor of the elimination of these sins, the elimination of this aggravating and because, in the end, it is discrimination, it is an injustice for these two districts, for the metropolitan areas of the Coruña and Vigo, for the affected municipalities of Bergantiños, the Coast of Death and also the Val Miñor. These are areas, in addition, with a high population density, with a high economic dynamism. And since it's about highways, I'd like to make a reference to a sort of balloon probe that's constantly being repeated over the past few months, and that's the central government's intention to establish beaches on highways that are now free, state highways that are now free. And what we have to tell you is, of course, that we're going to face, that we're not going to allow it, that BNG wants to eliminate the abusive fees, that we're not paying any more, that we've already paid enough fees. And I also want to make a reference to the state highways AP-9 and AP-53, where I suppose we'll also ask for the same thing we're asking for for for these autonomous buses. Not only the downside, not only the bonus, but as a goal of maximums, of the future, the elimination of abusive fees as well. And to avoid this inexhaustible thread that is taking advantage of the concessionaires or, better said, the concessionaire, because it is really the same concessionaire; it is the Itinerary Group that has the grant of the autonomous highways, with the name of the Galician motorways, and also the one that has the concession of the AP-53, which communicates Santiago with Dozon, and the AP-9. It's the Itinere Group, which we already know who belongs to. They're investment groups, some voyeur funds, too, which have their headquarters in tax havens. Well, these fares of the highways of Junta, AG-55 and AG-57, constitute an aggravating, discrimination and injustice for the counties of the Minor Valley and Bergantinos, Costa da Morte. They constitute a scandalous discrimination against other comarcas that have free passenger cars -- some of them have already been mentioned here --. We can talk about the Morrazo, we can talk about the Barbarian, Santiago-Brion, at last, all those buses, except these two, are free of fees. Also discrimination, because these rates are barriers to mobility, to connectivity, to the competitiveness of these regions, because they are a trap, because they penalize, especially workers, people with less resources, but also businesses. As I said before, I'm an area of high dynamism where there are many business parks and there are many companies that need to take out their products and have this weight, this fee, this toll that prevents their connectivity and, above all, their competitiveness. And also because they have a very detrimental and very negative effect also for road safety, for the quality of life of the populations that cross conventional roads, which are oversaturated with traffic. So much so that AC-552, which passes through the cores of the Coruña, the Laracha, the Artexo, the Carballo, with traffic often heavy-duty passage; as it happens in the case of conventional roads ranging from Vigo to Baiona, which also cross nuclei of population, densely inhabited areas. And that's a harmful element, an element that causes a lot of road safety problems, a lot of risks to the population and a lot of problems to health and quality of life. And, therefore, the fact of releasing these fees and reducing them significantly would help to significantly reduce this traffic by step and greatly improve the quality of life of these populations. And the Galician Union has the powers, it has all the competences, there's no excuse here. He has all the competences in this matter. Then, you must exercise them, you can exercise them, you can remove these fees. You should do a study to evaluate the costs and formulae to eliminate these fees and also temporarily approve significant bonuses, not those that are now in force, which are clearly insufficient: 25% for the return trip and also 50% for the nighttime, which you will already tell me who uses the 00.00-to-6.00-morrow bus. This really is a measure for the gallery, which benefits a very small percentage of users, which is a toast to the sun and is a way of doing what they do. And as long as the fees are not eliminated, which is the target of maximums that we should achieve, I say for AG-55, AG-57 and also for AP-9, we can apply much more significant bonuses, and we in this sense think that we should benefit those people who make usual displacements, who make shifts for work reasons, studies, attendance at public services, also for companies that have to use these routes necessarily for communication with outsiders, for the transport of goods, also for the connection of these polygons, business parks and the port outside of the Crown. And we bring here an idea in the form of an amendment, which is that in this case the same bonuses will be applied -- the news we have is that -- in the summer for AP-9 and that will be applied as a result of the negotiation that BNG did in government investment. It would be an important step forward to be able to apply these bonuses, for example, the freeness of the trip back and other planned in the case of these two buses. And, therefore, the conclusion is that it's about doing justice to the neighborhood of some neighborhoods that are being double penaltyd, because they have to pay with their taxes the fees in the shadow of the other highways and they have to pay their pockets the fees every time they have to use these two highways. They've been paying for a long time. It's so fair that these peas are eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u193	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u194	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, one does not fail to be surprised at the political action of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. It surprises every time you present an initiative, and that surprise, from my point of view, what it shows is a lack of reality, a lack of awareness of your party, I think it shows a lack of knowledge of being out of everything the rest of the people are talking about. If there was common sense, I suppose this initiative that was registered at the time would be withdrawn later when the Socialist Party of the Monclo itself makes a genuine Gabilondo to Mr. Caballero. And I explain, do this exercise -- yes, yes, now, I'm sure they understand me and share it --. To do this demagogy exercise is improbable I believe that of any political group, because to bring to this Parliament an initiative which is called upon not to reduce the fees which, by the way, the Socialist Party does not do where it governs, but not to reduce the fees, but to eliminate the fees, the same week that Moncloa filters the possibility of putting tolls on all the highways, on all state highways, this is honestly to make a genuine Gabilondo. One says one thing and the Socialist Ferraz Party, the Socialist Party in Moncloa does absolutely another. [[Applause]] That's why I tell them they're out of reality, or at least out of the reality of their party. And knowing how we're going to meet Mr. Sánchez, this doesn't hope for a happy ending. Today we also saw a digital that the president of the Coruña Parliament was already running as a candidate for the next congress. I just leave it there, I leave it there. But, well, there's each one with his. But look at you, that's how we're going to do it. What is the situation of the highways in Galicia? You present this -- listen, at best, you learn -- you present this -- [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u195	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u196	...when the bus situation in Galicia, the Xunta highways, is one of the cheapest in Spain. You present this when in Galicia you've been applying discounts for quite a while. And in AG-55 and AG-57, the amount of these bonuses comes from the budget of the Union. They also present this when, Mrs. Otero said, I recognized it, and I appreciate it, when the last road performances on the part of the Galician board in recent years are all free of charge. He said that it was unfair, I don't know if he meant what he wants to wear to those or what he wants to do. But, look, the highway of the Morrazo, the conversion highway Nadela-Sarria, the Via Átabra, the VAC Tui-A Guarda, the highway Santiago-A Estrada and the high-performance route of the Costa da Morte. All without fees. Faced with this action by the Galician Union on highways that are autonomous ownership, we have the action of the Spanish Government of the Socialist Party on highways that are of State ownership. And what did the State Government do on the AP-9 highway? Well, January 1st this year increases the pay, January 1st this year increases the pay. Now you say, and you promise that from July they'll be reduced, we'll see, I hope so. But that's what he did. So it's a little incongruent to come and ask the Council of Galicia to lift the fees when the Government of the State does not make a survey, but what it does is to charge more for the fees it has in Galicia. The Galician Union has worked for these years at the shores of these two buses. They said it was little, because it could be, it could be that all the discounts that have been made are not the taste of all the Members, I don't doubt it. Surely you can make an effort and we'll try it, but look at you, in AG-57, Vigo-Baiona, you've kept the toll for light vehicles, except in the truce The Ramallosa-Baiona, which went down; the heavy vehicles type 1 also came down in the Traits Vigo-A Ramallosa and Vigo-Baiona; and the heavy vehicles type 2 pay less in seven out of the eleven highway centers. In AG-55 there were no price variations for light vehicles, nor for type 1 heavy vehicles except in Paiosaco-Laracha, which pay less. And prices were also reduced in five of the eleven motorway truces for type 2 heavy vehicles. There have been other bonuses since 2010 for frequent users: 25% on return trips on the same day; 50% on the return and after trip, whenever they are done on the same day; and from 2019 to all vehicles that use telefax, the 50% discount on nighttime. It's extra, it's not the only one, Mr Bará. And also numerous families, which was the last addition. You at the same time as this was being done here, because let's do a little bit of memory to know what happened, what the Socialist Party said during these months. Because, look, the Union and the Central Government woke up in 2006 -- they ruled both in 2006 -- the elimination of AP-9's peas in the Vigo-O Morrazo and La Coruña-La Barcala truces, paying them to the Galician Union, that is, paying them to the Greeks. In 2017, with a Government of the People's Party, both parties agreed that this bonus was directed solely by the State, because it was a self-titled State. But there was a change of government and from the year 20 the Government began to ask for those peas to be lifted to pay them to Galician Union. And as of the year 21, the company also asks for them to be paid to Galician Union. What did the Socialist Party do then? Then ask Junta to pay the fees of a national highway that is responsible for paying the Government of the State. That's the Socialist Party of Galicia. And now you're saying that even when we were talking about the reduction in AP-9 fees, they brought to this Parliament some initiative asking the board to join the central government's efforts on highways that are government-owned to know how much it would put together to lift those beaches. But, as I told them this week, Moncloa probes everywhere on the highways. In four months, Your Honor, Galicia will be the autonomous community with more miles of highway with toll from all over Spain, when they have just raised a few beaches in Catalonia within four months. In Galicia, if you're doing the proposal you're trying to probe Moncloa, you'll assume there'll be more than a thousand miles of peased bus, and this is the same week that you're asking to lift the weight of AG-55 and AG-57, where you've been working on the beaches and reducing the rates for years and are the cheapest tolls in Spain. What you're proposing is to charge for the buses, in addition to having your commitment to finish some buses, such as the Santiago-Lugo, A-54; the Lugo-Ourense, A-56; the Vigo-O Porriño, A-52; the Pontevedra Circulation, A-57; authorize the connection of the Ártebra to the AP-9, which also wants to put a toll -- I suppose Mr. Seco will know it -- and the Navy highway and also the Ourense-Monforte highway. This is what the Socialist Government is waiting for in Galicia. You've got to finish your buses and you want to charge for the cars that have no toll. That's right, we have to put our duties on the Council of Galicia. This comes very soon, because in the morning we heard that the People's Party was the party that was trying to bring initiatives into conflict with the Government of the State. Well, here's a clear example of this expertise with which the Socialist Party works, always looking for points of encounter between the Galician Union and the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] But, look, we believe that what you have to do is tell the Socialist Party to apply, to its Government, once and for all, the bonuses to the fees committed in AP-9; that you leave without effect the extraordinary fees of the fee that you have been authorising each year, that it will vertebrate 60% of Galician population; and that it materializes the suppression of the peage of Roundola, which has been waiting since the year 18. And Mr Bará said, a little bit with his little mouth, that this is very good to do the same, that they add up, that he presented an amendment, that they add up also those reductions until the AP-9 ones are done the same. You still have it very easy, Mr. Bará. What you are not credible, because you come here to ask the Socialist Party for something, when you have the slightest opportunity to rule with the Socialist Party, you don't doubt it, because for you an armchair in a council or a deputy, it's worth a lot more than lowering the rates of the highway in Galicia. And that's more, it's been done that Sánchez has already passed his investment, but -- God wants me not, because if Spain isn't going to be bad -- but if they have the chance to invest Sánchez again, they will do it, because for you most importantly, your spokesperson said it the other day, it was that the People's Party didn't govern. [[Applause]] Better than for the Greeks the most important thing is that the People's Party is still ruling and you're still in opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u197	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u198	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for the support of the Galego Nationalist Block and say that we are going to accept the amendment tabled by the BNG, because we understand that it also expands and improves our proposal. Mr. Calvo said I'm out of reality, but you're going to tell me, Mr. Calvo, aren't you what's out of reality? Or you're going to tell me that it's not true that the social cry and historical claim in the neighborhoods of Val Minor, Bergantinos and Costa da Morte is not true. It's a cry since 1990, but it's just that even more the leaders of the People's Party in these neighborhoods have been demanding it. Or are they going to tell me that the demonstrations, the closures and those concentrations were lies? That's why it's a social cry and today it's a clear situation of injustice with other comarcas and it's time to put an end to this injustice. Out of reality is Mr. Calvo, who even told me he wanted to put a toll on the Navy bus. What's the Navy bus? He even told me he wanted to put a toll on the Sarria-Nadela bus. For now it's a corridor and the original idea was Nadela-Monforte. Let's not forget you're limiting Sarria-Nadela. That's why you keep lying about AP-9, you know that money that was claimed from the Central Government to the Galician Council was the result of a judicial failure. What the central government did was comply with a judicial resolution. You're twisting reality, because you know that the concessionaire company has resorted to a decision by a minister of the People's Party, of the Serna Injigo, and the court ruling by that misjudged by a leader of the People's Party had to be welcomed by a government presided over by Pedro Sánchez. But the decision taken was from a People's Party Minister. [[Applause]] People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they're gonna tell me about AP-9. I just want to remember, who privatized AP-9, who extended the AP-9 concession until 2048? Who prevented the debate from taking into consideration until on two occasions the transfer of AP-9? [[Applause]] Who did it? Was it the Socialist Party? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it was the People's Party. I'm going over there, what's the impact of rising fees over these years? Well, she was a Welsh minister of the People's Party. It's just that you, you, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u199	Silence! Mr. Peace, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u200	...they twist reality, they come here telling us that what we have is absolute truth and it's not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u201	Quiet, please! You're not in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u202	Therefore, privatizing AP-9, extending the concession until 2048 and who prevented the debate and taking into account this transfer was the People's Party. On the other hand, a socialist government is what will make that historic bonus of AP-9's tariffs thanks to these general state budgets, which you voted against, which envisage 63 million in this year 2021 to subsidize the fees, for the free travel back, that travels take place within 24 hours; 50 % bonus between Vigo and Tui; bonus for recurrent users; elimination of the payback and bonus for heavy vehicles. [[Applause]] Who did it? The Socialist Party The PP voted against these budgets, which are the ones that will make these bonuses come true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u203	Mr. Paz, it's up to you now, eh! Play hold! Play hold! [[Laughter]] Play hold! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll stick to the seats.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u204	Thank you, President. I understand, I understand that it bothers them that something they didn't solve or govern in Madrid, or rule in Galicia, comes the Socialist Party to put a solution to a historical claim of Greek citizenship, as was also that bonus of AP-9's beaches. But you, you follow the steps of the central government, because you in Galicia have powers in AG-55 and AG-57. Why don't they do this study to see if it's possible to liberalize those beaches? And as long as they don't liberalize these fees, they do bonuses on those fees that benefit everyone and all users, not just the numerous families and not just the transport companies at night. They have it in their hands, tell the Galician Council to do this study, to liberalize the fees and, on the other hand, to do a bonus to end that injustice that these comarcas have been suffering for many years, because yes, because it's a historic cry. And finally, the German Government has funds, it has skills to reduce taxes that are a burden and a burden that hinders the transport and mobility of the Greek citizenship. It's time to move forward towards a model where each Welshman and every Welshman can move along all of the Welsh track, regardless of their level of income. And they have skills. I think it's very nice that they demand things from the central government, but when they have skills to do them, they move, they talk to the Galician Union and once and for all respond to this social cry about this liberation. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government regarding the pending projects with the city of Vigo, as well as on the legal texts and the measures that prejudice it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u206	An amendment was made by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Alexandra Fernández Gómez, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presents the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replace the resolution with the following text:"The German Parliament urges the Gounta de Galicia, to ask the Government of Spain to re-establish the Vigo projects between its urgent actions and thus to put a solution to all structural deficiencies in the city where state competences refer to and correct those legal texts and measures which prejudice the city directly, in particular:1. Reactivate all projects pending with the city of Vigo on iria and railway infrastructures and water supply:a) Complementary actions for the extension of AP-9 in Chapela.b) Urban integration of AP-9 in Vigo through:-The conversion of the access branch of access to the city through urban and railway infrastructures and water supply:a) Additional actions for the extension of AP-9 in Chapella.b) Urban integration of AP-9 in Vigo through:-The conversion of the access branch of access to the city through urban and rail infrastructures and water supply.-The improvement of the high steps.-The installation of acoustic barriers to their passage through residential urbanization environments.c) Connection of AP-9 through Ifevivi.d) Reconnected by AP-9 through Ifvivi.d.d.d) Replantation of Madrid.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.ed.d.d.d.d.d.ed.d.d.ed by the actual resources.ded by the request request of funds.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d.d request for.d.d.d.d.d. To encourage and protect the economic fabric of the city, with particular attention to those projects linked to strategic and innovative sectors:a) Effective commitment and the momentum of all those measures that guarantee the continuity of the activity and employment of the shipbuilding sector, notably in Barreras and Vulcano.b) A plan for economic and industrial reactivation of the region to address the transformations of the production model to the environmental crisis.c) Vigo's connection to the transport network 220kv, including it in the planning of the Spanish Electric Network for the period 2021-2026.d) Affixed by a battery plant in Vigo.e) Supporting the innovation projects of the aeronautical industry and telecommunications.f) Corrigify the Climate Change Act and the Sustainable Fisheries Act in those articles that directly prejudice Vigo and its area.3. Support and expand the cultural network of the city:a) Ensuring and realising support for Xacobeo in the city of Vigo.b) Increase budgetary approaches to MARCO.c) Run the project of a national public library respecting the initial dimensions.4. Increase the environmental protection of Ría Vigo:a) Study of the quality of the waters of Ría de Vigo.b) Ecosystemic restoration and protection of the Ciés Islands."]] For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u207	Good afternoon again. Thank you, President. We are obliged to bring this initiative to the Galician Parliament because of the weight loss that Vigo is having in front of the Central Government. It is increasingly evident that the needs of the first city of Galicia and the centre of the Euroregion with northern Portugal ceased to be priority. As a result, pending actions are piled up and seriously affect their future. I live at the beginning of the century was called a great city, the reference focus of the northwestern peninsula, and the viguens claimed that role with our work, with our effort, with projects, requesting the support of different administrations. Vigo was called to be a fiery city, which in 20 years had to achieve a great transformation, aimed at being what we now see in the city of Porto, an open city, cordial and with opportunities. But there were people who decided to change that course, others we're still working to achieve it, and we have hopes, but others have decided to change that course. People who decided to close the doors, turn their backs on everything, stand up in victimism, make personalist policies and captive politics. Because, if it's important to do things and get projects forward, the most important thing is to recognize today all that has been done and try to regain lost time. And that's why we bring this initiative today, because we want to regain lost time and it is necessary to claim the reactivation of all the urgent projects, which in part were already committed by the previous Government, or that they are either now sleeping in a drawer, or have seen their budget allocation reduced or even disappeared directly from the Government's plans. Well, to this situation today politically we could put a title, we could call it "The Leave of the Knights", on one side Abel and on the other side Gonzalo. Everyone with their responsibilities as significant and prominent socialist activists of Vigo. Gonzalo looks elsewhere, when it comes to claiming to the Government of Spain investments to Galicia, and we see it, for example, in the budgets of the Government of Spain with other autonomous communities in contrast to Galicia. Abel, the mayor of Vigo remains absent, remains impassable before the scorns of Sánchez to Vigo. And you know why, you know why? Because Abel works for him and doesn't work for the city, and he does very well. He does it very well, because he almost doesn't notice. Look, in Abel Caballero's 14 years as mayor, Vigo was losing weight and wealth in his area of influence. The city is beautiful, very beautiful, very beautiful, but it has lost weight in its area of influence. By giving a given, from 2007 to 2018 the Coruña district grows 25 points in wealth generated, while Vigo drops 12 points. We'd like Vigo to have that rise as well, as the Comarca de la Coruña did. That is, 14 glorious years for Abel Caballero, 14 disastrous years for the city of Vigo. And that's why we're here today, so let's remember, let's see, let's check the actions, the promises, the results, the compliments of one and another, and, like the results of different things, as I said, before we see the passage of time, let's go to the last government of Fraga and the previous mayors, because Vigo existed before the Knight and if he existed! When early in the Vigo century I was called to be that great city, as I said, that great Vigo which had to be today, then important decisions were made. To constitute the metropolitan area of Vigo, a territory of almost half a million inhabitants to grow out of hand, as O Porto once said. Prince Lois Pérez Castrillo, Corina Porro, was Ventura Pérez Mariño, Touriño, the Feijóo itself, all worked on that line. A law was unanimously passed in this Parliament, Vigo arrived with Abel Caballero and closed the metropolitan area. He said no, he faced the city halls. Another thing was to create the Consorcio do Casco Vello, so that once the old historical area of Vigo was a focus of opportunity. The Consortium was created, it was signed, Feijóo was counsellor at that time, it was Corina Porro mayoress, and the old helmet today vibrates, today it has rehabilitated housing, today it has hostel areas, today young people have opportunities there, and we all end in that direction, I say clearly. Enlarge the Navia area, with a PAU where young people and new people could live, get off the parishes and rural Vigo to have an area where they can access the housing, with access, with services, with school, and health center. It's a reality too. Feijó also signed it when he was an Infrastructure Advisor. To bet on an international airport and give a boost and life to a series of cultural, sporting, social events that attracted visitors all year round. Look, I'm talking here from Soto, from Soto, Prince, Manolo Pérez, Lois Pérez Castrillo, again I repeat, Ventura Pérez Marine, Corina Porro... Look, the World Fishing, the Volvo Ocean Race, the Cutty Sark, the Rías Baixas rally, the Air Festival, the Vigo Transform, the Are More, Pure Art, Imagina Sons, the ALT Theatre Festival... There are no such events in Vigo. And the airport has dropped 400,000 visitors since Abel Caballero is mayor. I don't count Covid's year, I don't count the pandemic year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Other mayors, other councillors, other Members, I have to say that they are present, Isaura Abelaras, Corina Porro, I have to talk about Abel Losada, Manel Gallego, Enrique Vieites himself, people who had been betting for that city since the beginning of the century. It is a city that was a generous city, with a high regard, where dialogue reigned. Well, the biggest example was the 2006 Municipal Management Plan, a plan that cost so much, that was agreed with all the city's collectives, a plan that would be the lifeline in 2006, Vigo's lifeline, but that Abel Caballero ordered to stop to try to win some municipal elections. He didn't win, but he achieved his goal, which was to be mayor. Thus, in 2007 Abel Caballero lost his election and with nine concelleros he is mayor, with a bipartite with the Nationalist Galego Block, where he begins with his fantasies and offers a painful image in the city, with mayor's posters and mayor's tenure, and begins that bicephalia. And besides, he's already beginning with all kinds of fantasies, as I say. Because he said in 2007: "The State Library will occupy 18 plots close to King's Square." No library yet. "The Town Hall and Government will begin in 2009 the fall of Samil's wall." Samil's wall's still there. A single-way funicular will join Berbes and King's Square in 2010. There's no funicular yet. Well, those are things he said to be mayor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Coinciding not time with that municipal legislation, the PPdeG, parallelly, Alberto Núñez Feijóo wins the autonomic elections with an absolute majority, he won, he will do it three more times in Vigo, and he begins to put his promises into effect, his announcements also in the campaign. He's starting to set up and he's doing it, he's going to do it! And in 2011 Abel Caballero goes back to losing the election, goes from nine to 11, the PP has got 13 in the previous one and gets 13 again, but this time the Nationalist Block Galego is no longer going on a bipartite with him, but he does prompt support. And take the hair to the Block and take the hair to the People's Party. I'm self-criticizing. We take the hair absolutely to the opposition and therefore take the hair absolutely to all the vicars, and start and put in place their personal strategy of victimism, of all attacks, that the Union does everything in Vigo, and the policy of permanent confrontation, with the port, with the Union, with the free zone, with the Government, with the deputation, with the neighbouring municipalities. Everyone, they all go against Vigo, the only one who defends Vigo is him. But, look, from then on, that generosity, that height of sight, that dialogue of the mayors of what I talked about, of the mayors and of all Vigo politicians -- with all the confrontations there was, eh! -- they become selfish, they become a lack of ambition, and they become a bite, because really Vigo went from being a free city to being a city subjected, of course. We defend, we defend no, we fully respect Abel Knight's legitimacy in the polls absolutely, which he does not do with other majority. We respect most of Abel Caballero, but it is that he stood up as a defender of Vigo and convinced when he was actually standing up as a defender of himself. That's what he did, and today we see that his strategy worked. He's got two absolutes, not only for his merits, but for others' sakes. We also do self-criticism. The Galician Nationalist Block itself also suffered in its own flesh. And 14 years later we can clearly state that Abel Caballero's 14 years were of glory to him, but of misery to Vigo and to his future. And I repeat, 14 glorious years for Abel Caballero, 14 disastrous years for Vigo. And Vigo lost his chances and, when he was ruling the People's Party in Madrid, there were a number of commitments, and Abel Caballero from time to time claimed those commitments. But it's just that he's quiet today, he doesn't say anything, and we have an obligation to ask from here to reactivate all those actions and all those infrastructures so necessary and essential for Vigo. Look, as all of this went through, Junta has invested 1.2 billion euros in Vigo over the last 10 years, and they can see it in addition. He was affixed by the debugger, by the new public hospital, by the City of Justice, by the intermodal station, by the Navy PAU itself, by the old helmet. Theme compromised, theme fulfilled. We want that now the Government of Spain topic committed, subject fulfilled. But also that the mayor himself asks for those needs and claims, because they are fundamental to Vigo; they are equally not important to him, but they are very important to Vigo. So we don't want them to let themselves escape anymore. Look, Knight, from the absolute majority I think he's cut off his wings to the city, it's him and only him, there's no more the conciergemen. He only exists with himself, because I don't think he lets anyone work. Since the President of the FEMP does not defend the city which the Government has, we will urge the Council of Galicia to address the Government of the State, with the majority we have in this Parliament, so that Vigo will finally achieve and be able to count on those actions and those infrastructures and investments that have already been committed to the Government of the People's Party. And you also have the list in your own LNP. And the block presents an amendment, which seems to us to say more or less the same thing and adds some additional subjects. But today we want this to sound seriously and rigorously. I mean, it's actions that were already committed. We all want more and more, and of course we'll keep asking for more. But, look, to see that we're going to keep the line, what was committed to the previous government are the claims that Sánchez has to set in motion so Vigo is the city it deserves to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u209	Thank you, President. Well, I have to tell you, Mrs. Egerique, that there is a tremendous dissociation between what you are presenting on the initiative, which goes on to the demands of this Parliament to the state in relation to the pending issues in Vigo, and you came here to appear and apply as the next candidate for the mayor of Vigo. I will try to focus on the subject of debate, which is the complaints that Vigo has to make to the Government of the State, which is what we are supposed to discuss. [[Applause]] If we look at the bottom of the question, the proposal you put forward on all those projects that Vigo needs, that narrative, because it seems better that the motivation behind this initiative has more to do with the need of the People's Party to make up for its guilt than with a strategic proposal. That you wanted to make here a storyteller of Vigo's history, but there's very little strategy in the concrete initiatives of this proposal of yours. But the most curious thing about this initiative today is that it consists of a compendium of demands and projects of which you are directly responsible or responsible for all the problems that arise. [[Applause]] They call for follow-up actions to the expansion of AP-9 in Chapel, when you were responsible for an extension of the chapuza and in a hurry, because you were in a great hurry to open the works so you could apply the rise of the fees for the benefit of Audasa. And they were so in a hurry, they left unsolved the problems of the environment, the noise problems, the problems on the margins of the highways, because you had other priorities, you were responsible. You speak, you ask for the urban integration of AP-9 in Vigo, when in the seven years of the People's Party Government in Madrid they did nothing, nothing to move forward on this. Moreover, it was debated in Congress this and you avoided standing in favor, and the only thing you've done all that time was excuses and traps for not moving forward. They call for the burial of the VG-20; more than that, in the seven years in which the People's Party occupied the fund portfolio, because there were, there were no answers to the neighbors for a very small meeting. They ask you to run the project for the state public library. If you've refused year after year to move forward in this project. And so it could go on with everything. I mean, we're not talking about projects that were paralysed by the arrival of the new Government, or projects that have emerged in the last two years. We're talking about paralysed projects for years and years, before which you didn't move a little finger. And perhaps the most paradigmatic case of this whole initiative has to do with your request to secure the transfer of AP-9, apply bonuses and suppress the payout to Round it up. When you were responsible, not only to do nothing about it in the seven years of government in which you were in Moncloa, but even to ban it if you could argue about it. So on the contrary, you were so opposed to this that you now gather on your initiative, that you wanted to break the rules of democratic play and prevent the debate. [[Applause]] And all this initiative is built on this thread that drives those actions, projects and measures that the People's Party could do while it was in the central government and which it didn't do. And it's a strategy -- with all due respect -- rather painful, because you wanted to come here and remove your guilt, your responsibilities, and what they did was put all your sins at the center. And I just had to listen to Mrs. Porro presenting this initiative in Vigo asking, "Where are the voices that should be in front of these demands? Why are you quiet?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Party: where were the voices that would have been in front of these demands when the People's Party was ruling in Madrid? Why were you quiet? [[Applause]] Because these questions apply to the Central Government when it ruled the People's Party and when it rules the Socialist Party with the United Nations We can. [[Applause]] And they also ask themselves about the role of a President of the Incapacated Union, unable to honestly defend the affairs of this country and defend the schedule of complaints from a city that is going through a critical moment, in which the vigues wonder about such fundamental issues as what the future of the city will be, about which will be the role we play in the Greek context and in the pensular context. And this should be the debate today, that of the great challenges of the future for the city of Vigo. But in order to respond to this, we need a long-term strategy and look, something that we believe this initiative does not answer, because the driving thread meets solely criteria of political opportunity. All they've done is engage in a sort of Frankenstein initiative all that you haven't done and now they can rightly criticize -- with reason but without any credibility -- what the Socialist Party now doesn't do either. That's why we tabled an amendment to overcome this frame that goes further, which gives answers to the challenge of the great transformations that we are experiencing as a result of the environmental crisis, the digital revolution that will transform, which is already transforming the forms of production and consumption as we know them today. And if we think this way, if we think about cycle change and not partisan opportunity, there are three fundamental aspects in which the city of Vigo has a lot, a lot to demand from the state, of which you have said absolutely nothing: in the economic, geopolitical and environmental crisis we are living in. Vigo is going through a worrying situation because of weight loss and impulse loss -- we've already spoken here -- and we're becoming increasingly incapable of competing in the global context. And this translates into an industrial relocation, into a more precarious job, we have structural evidence that is accelerating beyond this crisis. And this is the economic challenge we have ahead of us. And the answers to how to deal with this decommunicative challenge we also have them in the history of our own city. If we analyze the evolution of the city, we can see that, at those times when there was a bet to invest in the real economy rather than speculative, we move forward; that, when we bet on economic diversification, we've made ourselves strong; and when we bet on innovation and technological development, we could compete in the global context. These should be the keys, the solid fundamental pillars, and that, brought to reality today, means, on the one hand, renewing and promoting productive sectors that are already tractors, such as the naval sector. It is incomprehensible that in the situation on the edge of the collapse in the naval sector in Vigo, you say nothing about this in your initiative. "Where are the voices that should be in front of these demands? Why are you quiet?" Because they're co-responsible from the board and they'd rather be quiet. And we demand both the Union and the Government of the State to be involved in a sector that is strategic for the city and the country, that the naval sector in Vigo is in the ICU and needs commitments and measures especially to ensure activity and employment in Barreras and Vulcano. And, on the other hand, in order to move towards that necessary economic diversification, openness to new sectors and the commitment to innovation, we need investment in sectors such as telecommunications and the aeronautical sector, where we have enormous potential and where the state can and should be involved. And this is the general framework in which our economic amendment approaches are framed, which we hope will be accepted, because your initiative, with all due respect, in this respect is really poor, which also reveals the lack of a popular party model for the city of Vigo, beyond all this story you have made. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, you lack a lot of a model. On the economic level, his initiative is limited to asking for the bet on a battery plant in Vigo. Of course, we can share this, but you are also in charge that today other enclaves like Barcelona are much better interconnected and that they can compete in a position of advantage in front of a city that remains disconnected from the large rail freight corridors. You later request Vigo's connection to the high-voltage transport network; yes, that's fine, but you also forget that Vigo was already included in the previous five-year plan when you were ruling in Moncloa and translated into nothing. And for the cultural sector I think you don't know if you really don't know Vigo's cultural sector. You claim support for Xacobeo -- I think it's for a Xacobeo signaling program -- but that's not enough, because Vigo is much more than Xacobeo. We're talking about one of the main cultural engines in the country. I live beyond the narrow landmarks of his conception of culture and tourism reduced to the Way of Santiago. Vigo needs budget for your network of museums, which you have neglected, and in which we believe that it is necessary for the state to bring funds to the Marco Foundation. And already entering the geopolitical plane, we've been debating recently about the importance and space of opportunity that the Atlantic coastal urban system Ferrol-Lisboa entails, where Vigo plays a central role, and, on the other hand, the risk of the radial model that reinforces our peripheral position. And it's true that here you have changed your position, that you since you've been in the opposition in Madrid now defend this Atlantic vision more strongly. Here I think we have more points of coincidence, but it's also true that you're still holding the pulse for a radial model that leads them to formulate, first, railway connections with Madrid before connecting or vertebrating the country internally. And they should have made it clear that the strength position of a middle city, as Vigo is in the peninsula context, will not come hand in hand to arrive 15 minutes before or after Madrid, when in any case he arrives first on a plane. It will come primarily from the hand of cohesion of the Atlantic Axis, first of all; from improving cohesion and integration of the urban, urban, urban, urban, and from cohesion and leading the metropolitan area and the hinterland of Vigo. A project that affects Merge as to territorial sorting. Because you talked about the interior of the metropolitan area, but it's up to you to get the territorial planning out of the metropolitan area. And with regard to the state, we must demand investment in a system of proximity and proximity rail connection, something that you forget about in your initiative. And I'm ending up with an emphasis on addressing the environmental crisis -- something that you also ignore in your initiative -- it's not just greening investments. It's to take seriously that ecosystems are in danger and that we need to protect them; it's to take serious projects such as studying the quality of the waters of the Vigo River, restoring and protecting ecosystem borders as fragile as the Cyes Islands. Because yes, because all this is economy, but first of all, it's life. And it is all these economic, geopolitical and environmental aspects that are fundamental challenges that this initiative does not respond to. And that's why we made this amendment, this contribution to convert a short and supportive irrigation initiative -- it was well explained in its intervention that this was not about strategic projects, but about short and supportive irrigation with the Socialist Group -- it actually turned this into a deep debate. And in laying down what should be the strategic guides on which we should seek all forces the consensus, because we are talking about the future of Vigo, which is also about the future of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Abelaras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u211	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I want to begin my speech by expressing total support for rejection, total rejection of the anti-democratic behaviour of the PP, who wants to expel from politics the candidate who won the municipal elections in Ourense, Rafael Villarino. Faced with the blackmail of Feijóo and Baltar, democracy. Rectify now, PP gentlemen. Democracy is being demonstrated. [[Applause]] You cannot use that word in vain. [[Applause]] Mrs. Egerique, they're starting well. They've been trying to disqualify Abel Caballero for 14 years, trying and not getting tired. Besides being president of FEMP, he's the mayor most voted for by his neighbours and neighbours. Was he able to submit them to everyone in this way or do we submit them voluntarily? You don't know Vigo, Mrs. Egerique, and you were born in Vigo. [[Applause]] He doesn't know his idiosyncrasy, he doesn't know the vicars or the vicars. Don't you realize they've been boycotting Vigo's citizenship for many years and Vigo's citizenship responds by supporting his mayor? Why would it be? Look, citizenship isn't blind, it's not deaf and it's not changed and, above all, everything has memory. A citizen of which I am part, who is increasingly proud of something so intangible but fundamental to a good quality of Vigo as self-esteem. Something that made us feel defending vigilante citizenship above all else. This feeling of belonging began with Abel Caballero's policies, the fruit of a way of governing the hands of neighbors and neighbors. I believe this is the feature that basically feeds our self-esteem. And it was thanks to these policies of Mr. Abel Caballero, who talks with all of us, who governs the hand of neighbouring, with people and for people. Look, I'm sorry to have to teach you this, but self-esteem is shown here. Today we have been carried in Spanish newspapers, where Vigo appears as the most valued Spanish city by its neighbours and neighbours, with the best quality of life. Above Zaragoza, Bilbao, Valladolid, Córdoba, Las Palmas, Murcia, Palma and the latter are Madrid. [[Applause]] And what measured this OCU survey, what measured this OCU survey was precisely the quality of life, based on the environment, based on cleaning, based on culture, based on education, based on mobility, based on health, etc., those things that make up a fairer society. Look, try to hide the bad eight years of boycott, which I thank Mrs. Alexandra for remembering. Years of absolute boycott to projects that [...] from Madrid, and that then its president was Rajoy and his minister, Ana Pastor. They put it in a drawer, they don't take us for fools who, I repeat, have memory. There must be little political shame to claim today as very urgent for Vigo what you paralyze with Rajoy and Ana Pastor. For eight years of the PP government in Moncloa, all the projects that were designed for Vigo were paralysed. What you guys today formulate as something very urgent had to be rescued from the drawer where President Rajoy and Minister Ana Pastor had hidden it. They no longer insult the intelligence of the beams and the beams. You know perfectly well, and you know perfectly well, that I know you well, Mrs. Egerique, what you're supposed to leave the project in a drawer, because then you run it administratively costs a lot, deadlines pass, prices rise, etc. Well, I'll try to touch a little bit. The VE for Sardinian, give me the laugh. But he was paralyzed by you, but he was paralyzed by Rajoy and Ana Pastor! They're talking about downtown Vialia, the intermodal station, but who set it up? But who was fighting on the south end of the train? Also paralyzed and rescued by the Vigo Town Hall. The investments that have been made, the debts that are carried to the center of Vialia by Adif, paying the Government more than 70%, the Unity of Galicia also collaborating as its corresponding administration, but with much less of the addiction that it is supporting, that puts the Vigo Council, and now they're telling us about the pitfalls; tell us now that we're starting all this. Putting all that in place cost a lot, Mrs. Egerique. You know that. I've come to tell you anecdote -- I've reached Vigo with Abel Knight -- I'm sorry -- I've reached the Town Hall with Lois Castrillo. And Mrs. Porro certainly remembers well. And I arrived with Abel Caballero. I know Vigo, although I was not born there, I know Vigo as if he were born there. When it was the Government of Mr. Manuel Fraga Iribarne, who could... look at what I'm going to say, who knows me well: the schools of Vigo and Galicia were attended, the infrastructures; my cole was completely remodeled. He was president of Galicia's Board of Directors Manuel Fraga Iribarne and delegate of the Board Manuel Fraga Boullosa. That's a different way of doing politics, but well... The debugger solution? You could talk to them for hours, because I was there with some of those who were here too. I remember. I invite them to take our wonderful Vigo laugh and see how it is. That's right. Take care of the shipmates. Too bad Mr. Rueda isn't here. Do you remember Mr. Rueda's trial of the goods required by Mayor Abel Caballero and that you explicitly objected? The vicars and the vicars didn't lose their memory. For the City of Justice and the Library of State, we could do a thesis on how to prevent a city from developing itself by a defiance of the President of Galician Union against its legitimately elected mayor. The beams -- I repeat -- we have memory. Remember that we were required to expropriate the land, pay it and, once done, make it available. And so it was. After this they unilaterally decide to transfer the defendants to the General Hospital. The mayor of Vigo then proposed using those buildings and those expropriated lands for the State Library, after re-enactment. And at that moment another occurrence of Joining. No, there goes the IES of Navia. Well, Mrs. Egerique, you must meet Vigo. So, what do I get from the Crosses to Navia? There's at least four institutes, three audiences -- or five -- and two -- well, maybe there's some left over, but you know the area perfectly. The secondary school area is perfectly cared for. Remember I've been there for 35 years in the same area. But do you know where The Crosses are? The travesas school area is perfectly cared for, but no, in Navia with a young population of about 20,000 people has no institute, claimed by the neighbors and neighbors. A school where boys have to travel to Beade, Bembriva, Coruxo, Coia, where they have a place. Well, you really can't be so incompetent in a performance. Do you realize that you're a stubborn staff member of the president against the mayor of Vigo? What's a feeling? What's a synonym? Which is hard to explain and more to understand that a president who talks about his absolute majority -- believe me that sometimes I'm sitting there and hear me claim so much of the absolute majority I think: and they don't believe it at all --. They show the Democrats and respect the vote of those who support other options. I repeat that we have memory. Besides, they still don't allow us to use the land expropriated by us and handed you over to the State Library. Finally, in this matter, in one of the last councils of March's board, you take out of the jokes a plan of new pedagogical architecture. Same place we'll see what it is. Meanwhile the need for IES in Navia is imperious and unappropriate. My partner Leticia Gallego will talk to them tomorrow at the commission. But why don't you respond to the agreement that the mayor of Vigo presented to you for the construction of that institute? If you don't like it, make proposals, change it, change it, but at least be polite and answer it. Do we also talk about the airport? They tried to drown him without resources, giving priority to Alvedro's. I know the president of the board voted in Vigo or voted in Vigo, but he lives in Coruña. But that doesn't mean that you're not president of the vicars and the vicars, too, and you exercise as such. Let him park his personal thugs and devote himself to his work, which is to be president of all the Greeks and Greeks. He hasn't even had time to send him or the economic vice president to visit Barreras yet. We also have memory here, eh! We remember the sale to Pemex announced urbi et orbi as an operation that was going to save Vigo absolutely from everything, and that led us to the tragic situation that we are living today: the transfer of the auxiliaries to Santander, with their teams that will never return to Vigo again. The owner of the company has already reported that it would be Astander who would finish it and the cruiser in their facilities and for that reason invited him to laugh a little too -- Cantabria president Miguel Ángel Revilla, to visit the facilities, to which he was delighted. Shame on you, PP gentlemen. I'm glad the coward stopped him from coming. Spain's greatest demand, announced, as I said, urbi et orbi, sold to Pemex and now completely dismantled, will leave thousands of families in Vigo without work, in absolute misery, will end up in Astander. Don't you have anything to say to this? Do you not intend to exercise your powers either by supporting the mayor of Vigo, Mr. Abel Caballero, in the demands of the battery factory? I would consider, Mr President, if I may with all humility, thank you, because you have in front of a leader you often try to none, as Mr. Calvo has just done now, worthy apprentice of Mr. Pazos with that gas light, which is already going on in the balting directly, who knows how to do. [[Murmurs.]] I'll advise you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u213	...to keep in mind the dialogue you've been offering since the legislation began. You show such a proud attitude that you cannot recognize that you are facing a serious politician who believes in people, who believes in pacts, who is able to spread differences for their benefit. And I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs Abelaras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u215	Well, I'll finish, but I'll tell you what's left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u217	...in our memory are the demonstrations made in Vigo to defend public health, the demonstrations made in Vigo with thousands of citizens who were not subjected, who were voluntarily, defending their savings box, which was also a stubborn and a head of Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u219	I advise you and I ask you, Mr. President, that you are not here, but give you the message -- that you leave the pride, that you leave the head...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs Abelaras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u221	...and that rule for all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u222	...we've spent a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u223	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u224	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u225	Mrs. Abelaras, I would recommend in any inquiry that they had made me come to live in Vigo because it is the best city in the world and, as your mayor says, I love Vigo and of course he has the best, the most good quality of life the city of Vigo and that no one can deny that. And no one, as I said before, questions here Abel Knight's legitimacy in the polls. And you've also differed in a lot of your intervention than he is. But, look, health, education, also interesting services. You talked about health, about the quality of health life, you contradicted yourself because you talked about the quality of health life in Vigo, which is a miracle, and then you talk about all the demonstrations to defend public health. They have the usual fears to try to defend Abel Caballero. I'm talking about that person and I really wanted to do the debate about Abel Knight because it was really a brake for a lot of things. And here I'll list only a few of those that are gone. And so mayors are important. You can also say of Vigo that it is the city with the most expensive water in all of Galicia, you can also say that. That's not a quality of life for the neighbors. You can also say that in social services Vigo continues among the Spanish cities that you least invest in social spending. I can say that too. We can also get to the bottom of the matter. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u226	Quiet. Mrs. Abelaras, you've had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u227	And the issues that are being asked for in this LNP, which you have in your possession, I haven't come into depth because they've been debated so many times. They've been debates that's been on the table for years, and they're commitments that's had a government and now they're looking to the other side, they're looking absolutely at the other side. And, look, the mayors have to defend and build their territories of course. I put myself as mayor of the Port, because the Port was a mayor who put the world around a mountaineer, no matter what political problems and without an obsession with an autonomic president, as happens to Abel Caballero and built a city. And, look, today we're in line with a lot of things, lots of things. And I also talked about the agreements reached by so many socialists, so many militants and politicians from the Bloc and the People's Party. And, Mrs. Fernández, remembering is very important, because you were in another party just now that I had 14 Members here and today you have none. So watch out for the election results. He had 20 Knight concellers; to see those who get from here in the future. Look, the Government of the People's Party, just to say... [[Murmurs.]] I respected the word shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u228	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u229	Just by saying the things you can see and play in Vigo, because often they do speeches here and then you have to go around the city and see who's done and who hasn't. Look, with the Government of the People's Party: gateway from the airport to Ifevi, said and done; the remodeling of the former metallurgical García Barbón, which is now the building of Social Security, said and done; the commitment of the Atlantic Axis train between A Coruña and Vigo high speed, said and done; the bonus of the beaches between Vigo and Pontevedra, said and done; the first stone of the intermodal station, said and done. And in Mariano Rajoy's budgets that you can check out, too, look, a new A-55 highway, 337 million euros included in an extraordinary investment plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u230	Mrs. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u231	...that this Government has cancelled. Electrical substation included in the Electric Network Plan 2021-2026, this Government has withdrawn it. The basement of the VG-20 in Navia, which is what they're interested in, was totally committed, and the other day on Saturday, Abel Caballero is walking with Gonzalo Caballero, there the two alone walking through Navia, criticizing the Beijóo, they don't talk about it, which is crucial for the neighbors that live there, because I know the city very well and the noise is unbearable, it's important to bury the VG-20, it's important. And now not even the name. Of course, they'll walk alone and the next day it turns out that on the radio you're already asking for Gonzalo Caballero's head. Anyway, how to trust him. Look, the remodeling of Avenida de Madrid. The remodeling of the Madrid Avenue, with all due respect to Mrs. Gallego, who I also know of Vigo, signed in the office of Abel Caballero, signed the convention of the remodeling of the Madrid Avenue, Ana Pastor and Abel Caballero, is still to be done. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He also signed with the Territorial Policy Advisor the Metropolitan Transport Agreement, and there is no metropolitan transport. So you agree and you don't even buy them. And that you really have to expose Abel Knight, because Abel Knight is like this, it really is. Well, he's the mayor of Vigo, he's very nice, but that's it. I'm not talking about the Library, because I'm already making many rounds, many rounds. And look, and the BNG now has its opportunistic role and I think we have, and we've reached a lot of agreements. That's why I say, Mrs. Fernández, it's also important to remember and know that, when we claimed important and interesting subjects for Vigo, we were cut off by the wings with strategies of victimism and deception strategies for all the vigues. I say it without any type of scruple. I believe, moreover, that Abel Caballero really has more enemies because he believes, tomorrow at the plenary he's going to ask the education and culture advisor to resign because he says he's not committed to the National Library. Request the resignation of the four concelers of the opposition. He with 20 concelers asks for the resignation of the four concelers of the opposition. A mayor who we're going to ask you to signal the Way of Xacobeo with all fidelity, without fear, with calmness, and answer seriously, "I already have my Xacobeo, which is Christmas." Of course, I don't think this is really to take it seriously. A mayor with so many concellers and so much responsibility can't answer that way and can't live in his fantasies. I think, in addition, it takes a little bit of wisdom, a little... I don't know, common sense. And, look, the Knight came to the top at the expense of an ambitious city, a city that put in it its hopes and ambitions. Indeed, a city that trusted him for many things, but arrived with an absolute majority and cut off his wings, absolutely. And now he's shut the doors to all the neighbouring municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u233	...he closed the doors to all the projects and today we have to see who said and who did, we have to check the hemerotheque and see what everyone said and what everyone did, and take a look around Vigo and see what everyone said and what everyone did, and this is necessary to meet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u234	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u235	As far as the amendment is concerned, I'll try to speak to the Nationalist Block in Wales. I said in the basics, some point we can come up with some deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u236	Thank you very much. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo and two other Members, on the impulse by the Greek Government of the actions necessary to achieve that Repsol renounces the application of the announced ERTE. This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia was tabled. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to this table the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of additionIn the resolution part of the initiative, the following expression should be added: "...we love their solidarity and support for workers affected by the ERTE announced in the Coruña refinery and urges the Joining of Galicia..."]] And to formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u237	Good afternoon. In October last year Repsol, like all companies in the sector in Europe, touched the bottom of the stock market, but it was a turning point. From that time on there began a spectacular rebound until it doubled its value, becoming a prominent way in which the most value has recovered from all of Europe, virtually reaching what it had before the pandemic. Repsol also highlights its policy of remuneration to shareholders, among the highest in all companies in the European indexes, and the second among companies in the sector, only behind the French Total. A policy of remuneration to shareholders that, in addition to payments in metal, implies spending between 1,200 million and 2,000 million of their own box, during the next four exercises, to buy own shares, precisely to fire on the profitability of their dividend, exceeding total French and reaching 9%. These are absolutely dreary figures which, in fact, achieve the best recommendations of the specialized bank, such as Deutsche Bank, which puts Repsol among the best in the sector at European level. So the first thing we should be very aware of is that this is not the description of a company in crisis, but quite the opposite. It's a solvent company, leader in its sector, with great potential and great expectations, one of the great Spanish energy companies, with all that it means: one of the great favors and protected by political power, favored by a regulation of the sector made to demand mouth and protected against unwanted company operations when requested. One of the lobbyies, along with the bank, with more influence, by saying so gently, in the governments and in Spanish and international politics as a whole. In fact, a company that just got an operating result of 600 million euros during 2020, announced the bomb and dish by its managing advisor, Mr. Imaz, who at about the same time visited Compostela President Fexóo to talk about future projects. And a month after the Repsol visit, he announced his intention to apply an ERTE to the Coruña work centre, which would affect 212 people for six months. An announcement that in the business context of Repsol, recovery of value, results, projects and remuneration record to the shareholder, is like a train crash. That a company in these circumstances announces a measure of this sort, absolutely unpublished in a company and in a sector that has never seen anything like it, makes it logically jump all the alarms not only in the refinery, but in a city that begins to wonder what more might happen after the loss of 28% of the industrial employment it had in the last ten years, and without losing sight that the old Alcoa, today Alu Iberica, is on the edge of the razor. Therefore, it must be an absolute priority for the Galician Union to stop this ERA. And he doesn't have much time to react. It must be agile, because the negotiations are moving forward and the Coruña district cannot afford a regulation file in the refinery, which today is temporary but tomorrow can be definitive. Anyone can understand that companies like Repsol are going to face an important technological change and that this can involve organizational and productive changes in the company, some very deep, which with the labour regulation that the People's Party has approved and the current Government can justify a ERA today and tomorrow for the same ERA. But the Coruña district can't afford any more loss of industrial employment. Repsol must be required to do what he has to do without reducing jobs and salary losses. First because Repsol can do it, because he has the necessary medium- and long-term strategic planning capacity, because he has the financial capacity, the organizational capacity, the logistics and all the government support he's always had and today he's not going to miss either. Secondly, because in the midst of a crisis that is demanding so many efforts, especially of workers and workers, of self-employed, self-sufficient and small businesses, it would be unacceptable for those, precisely the largest and most likely, to not contribute in the same medium. The Government must demand that all economic agents be given some proportionality in their efforts to get out of the crisis. And as far as these big companies are concerned, it has to go by not saving money in staff costs, because that savings in relation to Repsol Coruña would mean the same as a withdrawal of cash from the comarcal economy. Those who are going to be, to be sure, the large public funds prepreptors must undertake to maintain behaviors that contribute to overcoming the crisis, just the opposite of what an ERT means, which in addition to reducing the income of people directly affected and therefore their capacity to spend in the Coruña district, also means a burden on public unemployment benefits and a reduction in payments to Social Security. And it also means a very negative message for the entire territory of the Crown, a message that either reinforces the feeling of uncertainty and insecurity in the management of the crisis and in the capacity or deadlines for real economic recovery. An insecurity motivated by the fact or the very likely possibility that today's temporary file is tomorrow's final tomorrow, insofar as no investment is carried out to resolve definitively the problem that today, to justify ERTE, is presented as temporary. And thirdly, because, if you don't, you're forced to stop talking about a fair transition. It will be, not the negation, a very well thought-out slogan, a brand that any one would buy, that all and all of us would like to acquire, but ultimately a brand that has been revealed at every step as simple misleading advertising. An advertising that hides the reality of the absence of strategy, the absence of plans, projects and concrete measures that address the difficulties that will result from the change in energy paradigm, as clearly appears in the case of Repsol. We found ourselves in a situation where they launched the power transition plane without preparing the track or means to land it. And while some cross their fingers so that the blow isn't too serious, the others close their eyes not to see the blow. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the PSOE, insisting on the need to paralyze this ERTE by all means, if we don't want to see each other in six months talking about worse things. The Union and the Spanish Government must work together to paralyze the ERTE, but this fundamental problem does not end there. The Galician Union and the Spanish Government must also work together to get Repsol investments for the Coruña refinery, in the same way that there are already engaged or ongoing investments for Puertollano and Bilbao. Investments which consolidate industrial activity and employment in the Coruña, which serve as a turning point, which end with employment indentation and help the economic revival of the region. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm sorry about my clothes today, but it's not a perfume. It's nothing borrowed, I don't mean to disturb or rebuke anyone. It's my work clothes up to nine months ago. The work clothes of an employee from the Coruña refinery who 23 years ago began working at Repsol-petroleum facilities, who started working on the plant from below, in the field of production and in the tranche department -- something that I feel very proud about -- a worker with more than 20 years of shift on his back, in a template that abuses his body, like many other workers in this country, with this type of work: that he works in a venture company, so some have scars of burning by chemicals in our body, with which we have turned off fires and experienced serious explosions and accidents of fellows, who have even cost the lives of some of them; in a well-paid job and with good social benefits, but very badly worn that ensures that the citizen enjoys many plastic products that come to your homes, of fuels that move your vehicles, your homes, all over your homes, or of surfaces that he walks. [[Applause]] Repsol was always very good at being a big family, they always said that. It has always emphasized the importance of its staff and the workers were the main beneficiaries of a company that always acted in the pursuit of social peace, avoiding conflict and making its own employees also the main customers of the company itself. I don't remember that, except for force majeure, I had put fuel away in a company that wasn't Repsol, knowing that the best conditions his workers had, the corporate social responsibility of this company, and its connection with the comarcas were always present. Repsol's workers always act with responsibility and at hard times for the company we knew we were in touch with the situation. Most of the workers' representations have been agreed upon by good collective agreements, and in some of them there is the signature of what they are talking about. My last experience was just before being elected a Member of this House and derived from the appearance of the pandemic, in which the workers of Repsol refinery throughout Spain were considered essential workers and we had to risk our health and that of our families not to stop fuel production and, with it, that supplies would reach the homes of all citizens. It was made with sacrifices, such as having continuous days of twelve hours for months to avoid contact with partners as possible and ensuring staff available in the event of the appearance of groes, or the sacrifice of the days of vacation pending by many workers in the maintenance department. And all this without getting any kind of economic benefit from the company, which congratulated the templates of its refineries for this behavior, and it made it clear that it would not take traumatic measures for its templates during the pandemic. That's how the worst months of the pandemic went by, and just when the end of the mobility limitations with the end of the curfew and the massive vaccination of the citizenry with an early recovery of the economy, we find that the company's representation communicates the company's intention to apply an ERTE to the staff of the Coruña and Puertollano refinery for a period of five months, a file that affects a total of 212 workers and workers in the Coruña, which represents more than 30% of the staff of the factory. It is the first time in history that the company takes such a drastic decision as this, and it must be borne in mind that, despite being at a time complicated by the Covid crisis, the oil tanker had a net result adjusted in 2020, which measures the performance of the business and excludes the valuation in the value of extraordinary stocks and results, with a benefit of 600 million euros. Repsol has agreed to propose to the Shareholders' Board the payment of a dividend in cash of EUR 0,30 gross per share, from the benefits of 2020, which will be paid this year 2021, and the distribution of another by dividing into the account of the financial year 2021 by the same amount as its distribution will take effect in January 2022. The workers were spectators, like the rest of the population, of how the company disbursed nearly 20 million euros according to the National Securities Market Commission, to compensate an ex-director who has abandoned his executive activity; or how his top managers have remunerations of more than 3 million euros. After the evaluation of the ERTE in the Coruña, it could suppose a savings of less than EUR 500,000, and this before proceeding to any kind of negotiation, which looks like a boot of hair after the above, although the ERTE is posed by productive and non-economic motivations. Just the day before the announcement of this ERTE, the company presented to the workers a trading platform for a new framework agreement for the entire Repsol group with significant reductions in wages and social benefits, which invites them to think that Repsol is using the weapon of the temporary file as a pressure measure towards the workers at a time of negotiation of the framework agreement and subsequent collective agreements, a measure never seen by a company as important as Repsol, which wants to condition negotiations under the threat of an ERTE. Early this month of March, Repsol's CEO Josu Jon Imaz was welcomed by the president of the Galician Union, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to analyze the company's investments in Galicia and the possibilities of turning to the next generation funds of this company. He spoke directly, as it was in his own notes that came out of Galicia, the importance of public-private collaboration and its effects on the economy and on the employment of our land. During that meeting, if Mr. Imaz informed the Feijóo president of Repsol's projects in the Coruña, we don't understand that he didn't know what could happen just a month later, and we don't know whether the German Government is doing anything but watching as a spectator as a most difficult Greek company in the eyes of its president, who only wants to take pictures for the good news and then disappears with the bad ones. The Coruña and its economic and industrial development need certainty about the future of an industrial plant, which leaves many jobs in the region. We're talking about more than 600 direct jobs, 850 auxiliary workers, and in addition to that up to 3,000 in an induced way, in an industry that generates a lot of wealth in its environment. And the Government of Galician Union must explain what the performances were and the future that the company came to expose to Feijó a month ago. We need to know what initiatives the Government of Greece is going to take to meet Repsol's corporate social responsibility and refuse to carry out an ERTE that doesn't solve any problems for the company and its future. So far they have been unable from the People's Party to receive the Business Committee, as we have done to the rest of the parliamentary groups; and they have not yet received them from the German Government, despite being a handful of days from the end of the ERTE consultation period and having been received by the Council of the Crown and the Council of Artexo. And let me tell you that up until now they have been unable to make an institutional statement in the previous plenary, something they did smoothly in the Courts of Castilla-La Mancha. I hope that today we will be able to show Parliament's unanimous support to the workers affected by the ERTE formulated by Repsol in the Coruña industrial complex and urge the German Government to carry out how many initiatives are necessary for the company to withdraw the recently announced ERTE. In this sense, it is important to point out the opportunity that in the coming years comes through the application of the European Next Generation Recovery Funds for the achievement of a more sustainable energy model, an impetus to the transition that must be fair and driving new quality jobs. Therefore, the application of these funds in those regions must be prioritized with a dependence on the petrochemical sector and other fossil-sourced energies, such as those of Puertollano, that of the Coruña or that of Muskiz in Bilbao. On April 7, the Ministry of Economic Transition and Demographic Reto met with oil companies to set up a technical working group for the refinery. A forum for discussion between the Administration and the business sector to identify, coordinate and prioritize actions that facilitate the necessary fair decarbonisation of the sector before 2050. This working group will address topics such as the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, the role of the refining sector in the ecological transition from 2030 to 2050, the opportunities of renewable hydrogen in the sector, the momentum of the circular economy and its relevance to the development of rural areas, advanced biofuels, collaboration with the public and private sector, administrative simplification for the development of refinery projects or the identification of projects that reduce the emissions of the sector, without specifically mentioning the need to assess employment levels by this committee. No one can discuss the fundamental role of the refinery sector in achieving the goals of climate neutrality, with a fundamental participation in the transformation towards clean energy models, such as advanced biofuels and renewable hydrogen, transition initiatives that must have their development centre in regions economically dependent on fossil fuels. The Galician Union has full competence in industrial matters and cannot go back to the terrible process of deindustrialization affecting Galicia. A Union that does not have a future plan for the industry on our land, which does not guarantee the existing activity and does not attract new investments. The Comarca de la Coruña also suffers from this desire, disguised by the results of the multinational Indidex, now also having problems, but losing companies like Isowat, Caramelo, R, Emesa-Trefileria, Sapa, Weapons Factory and others, in an important danger like Ferroglobe or Alu Iberian. Industry generates high-quality jobs, works on economic tractors, affects trade and hospitality and sets out labour benchmarks for other sectors. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no industry there is no future. They expand and do some industrial policy since their full powers at the Galician Union. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me first of all show the solidarity and support on behalf of the People's Group to the workers and workers of Repsol refinery in the Coruña, people who come to jeopardize their job with their colleagues in the face of a business decision, the presentation of a temporary employment regulation file, which we hope will not happen and that we hope it can be resumed in the next few days. Allow me also to health the members of the Business Committee, which I understand are following this discussion of this non-legislative proposal. As you know, this weekend the streets of the Coruña welcomed a mass march in rejection of the company's intention to apply an ERA in this refinery. A job regulation file that, as explained here, would affect a total of 212 workers, which responds to more than 30% of the employees of the corrupt factory. The measure proposed by the company is that of temporary suspension, therefore, not extinction, which would have put off employment contracts for a period of six months. Repsol justifies this decision on the continued reduction in fuel demand, so it decided to stop the installation units. The refining area of the Coruña industrial complex has been registering for months a level of activity under its usual production, a situation that is expanding over time, due to the weak demand of the fuel market. In this case, the cases alleged by the company are productive, as Repsol did not incur economic losses. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we meet in a crucial week. It's close to completion of the 15-day legal deadline set for the negotiating table, there are only a few days and hundreds of families have been waiting to find a solution. But it's not fair to generate false expectations for all these workers, linking the future of the ERTE to a pronouncement by this Parliament. That's not fair, just because it's not true. Look, the Galego Nationalist Block presents this initiative with a desire to confuse, you know perfectly well that the Galician Union has no jurisdiction over this ERTE, even if it wishes, ladies and gentlemen, even if it wants to! You know perfectly well that Junta isn't even a labor authority that solves this file, because that function is up to the Ministry, whom you don't even appoint in your proposal for an agreement. And the Galego Nationalist Block knows that this temporary employment regulation file exceeds the scope of the Greek geographic area and also affects the factory that this company has in Puertollano, Ciudad Real, in Castela-A Mancha. And Repsol's ERTE proposal would affect a total of 830 people, of which 618 correspond to the Puertollano refinery and 200 to the Coruña refinery. And when this happens, the labour authority responsible for resolving the ERTE and resolving the negotiation that takes place in a joint way is the Ministry of Employment, since it affects work centres located in different autonomous communities. So, Mr. Seco, I'm very glad that you're a refiner of that refiner and, when you're 23 years old at work, you understand that something gives you that job and someone has to be comfortable. So, I don't know that you were a worker of that refinery, but I'm quiet, because you belong to a party that is currently the one that has to solve this ERT, which is the Government of Spain, which will be the question that you, as a fellow of these people, will hang out the phone, call Madrid and that in Madrid between We can -- that the Ministry of Labour is also headed by a Galician who will be sensitive, and also an ex- MP of this House, with which some Members we have agreed with her in Parliament -- and between We can, your partners, you solve the problem and you too, because you are also partners... home, you are partners, of course, you are partners. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I know, I know, I know it's yours. But, look, you are members of the Socialist Party in three of Galicia's four deputies, you are partners of the Socialist Party in many of Galicia's municipalities, and you are partners of the Socialist Party, but you are also decisive partners, the Galician Nationalist Block. It is true that the representation you have is of a Member in Madrid, but they were decisive partners to put Sánchez as President of the Government. Because you could choose to put Sanchez or not put him and you chose to put him, you chose to put him. Sure, sure. [[Applause]] And with this I have to tell you that this doesn't mean that this People's Group or that the Galician Union disagrees with this crisis. On the contrary, we want Repsol to prevail in the case of dialogue. We consider, and we say it loud and clear, that the company must strive to reach an agreement in negotiations and, if not possible, the mechanisms of extrajudicial settlement of conflicts of the Labour Relations Council are available to the parties. In any case, they can respond to the request from the social part of the negotiating commission, which asks to withdraw the ERTE and to study that in future investment plans of the company take into account the refinery of the Crown and its prevailing situation as the only refinery of the northwestern Spain. We know of the commitment of the Galician Union, which will continue to show all its support. We know that Junta remains in constant contact with the workers to ensure that they defend their jobs. And, as I am aware, I also know that since the Department of Employment and since the Economic Vice-Presidentship of Galicia, the necessary negotiations and mediations are being carried out with the relevant ministries. We are confident that, as Galicia is doing, the Central Government is watching for the proper negotiation between the representation of workers and Repsol. And secondly, we must continue to insist on how important it is to work with unity; let's hear it, we know that the political forces of the opposition take advantage of these labor crises in Galicia as a weapon against the Union of Galicia. In my opinion, I think you're wrong, both the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego, in the shooting. It plays a role with unity, lordships, political unity, and in these cases acts with institutional unity. The partisan reproaches believe that they contribute less or less to the situation that the families of these workers are going through. We could also remember here the Socialist Party in a lot of things, which today are asking the Galician Parliament for what they don't ask for in Castela-La Mancha, where the Socialist Party has an absolute majority, and there they don't ask for it. They know... because you know perfectly well... look, you had... look, you had... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u242	Well, it looks like it does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u243	Thank you very much. That's how I like it. [[Murmurs.]] You know perfectly well that the competent labour authority is the Ministry of Labour, which is not exactly active in favour of Galicia's interests. And you haven't been able to say it here in Parliament's office despite having worked for 23 years in that company. And you probably just like me don't retire here and you'll have to go back to that company. We could also remind the Galego Nationalist Block that it is the obsessed political force against the energy industries of Galicia, that in a misunderstood ecology everything that sounds like you would refine it seems wrong. We, the People's Party, the Government of Galicia, believe that industry in Galicia deserves to continue to generate activity and deserves to continue to generate jobs and the fair transition to technological advances. But neither does Repsol's refinery remain in the Coruña, nor Endesa in the Bridges, nor Ence, nor Alcoa, nor Coruña, nor San Ciprián, nor, of course, the coastal companies that are threatened by the impositions of the Climate Change Act. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Fernández, I see, ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, what concerns you is that the Coruña refinery with the laughter you're laughing at. [[Murmurs.]] You put yourselves in the fight of the workers who are going to suffer the ERTE. [[Applause]] Get into their fight and you'll be... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u244	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u245	...a little respectable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u246	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u247	You must be respectful, not with this parliamentary group, but with the representation given to us by the Greeks and the Greeks... each of us... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u248	Quiet, Mr. Rivas. That you're not in the debate, man. No, man, no, he's been intervening for half an hour. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Shut up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u249	They are, ladies and gentlemen, political decisions, in this case, lords of the Galician Nationalist Block, in many municipalities as I told them well. We in the People's Party cannot accept that view from the left against industry, which has such negative repercussions on employment. But we won't fall into the wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u251	...to insist on partisan complaints that solve nothing. They'll learn if we want to answer Repsol workers who see how time ends. I think we're forced to make an effort to find political unity and institutional unity, which is what these workers have with their future work at risk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u253	...they complain, but especially what these workers deserve. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u254	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u255	I end by making it clear, once again, that the Council of Galicia, even if it wishes, can't solve that ERA...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u256	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u257	...that this is a unique and exclusive competence of the Ministry of Labour. I hope you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u259	...Nationalist Block Galego and Socialist Party, do the appropriate negotiations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u260	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u261	...so this ERA doesn't go any further. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u262	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u263	Good afternoon again. I'm going to take advantage of this brief replica to draw attention to one of the most perverse effects of the People's Party's labour reform that the current Government keeps alive and that surely Repsol's colleagues at the negotiating table -- and, by extension, the entire staff frame -- are perceived with great clarity and much against their will. The withdrawal of governments from the negotiation processes of employment regulation files is a nonsense that appears in all its dimensions in cases like Repsol Coruña. The easy thing for Repsol's staff today would be to worry about ensuring good economic conditions for the time they put into the regulated and regulated house, those six months that the company proposes. Something that a priori shouldn't be very difficult in a company like Repsol, which is supposed to be willing to make efforts in that sense by offering supplements to buy the favor of the staff and thus be able to apply the measure by relying on the support of the social party. However, the concern of the staff today is very different and comes to be something like: accepting this ERTE will we be signing our death sentence? If we assess and accept today the existence of temporary causes justifying the suspension of contracts, will we not be evaluating the termination of contracts in advance if those same causes turn out to be final tomorrow? Can the company call us again within six months to inform us that the organizational and productive causes it presents to us today as temporary have become definitive? Are we going to be entangled? A well-founded logical concern that has clearly positioned the Enterprise Committee against the ERTE. What is less logical is the lack of concern on the part of the German and Spanish governments for the development of these negotiations and their possible consequences, serious consequences for the Kuruña region, which has already been severely punished in recent years as regards the loss of industrial employment, which is placed under 10% of the total employment, far away from 20% that marks the European Union as a target. How can a Government claim with credibility to pilot economic reactivation and employment recovery by staying away from the process of negotiation of employment regulation files? For the BNG, as for many people, it is absolutely impossible and represents one of the great disappointments of this government, supposedly the most progressive in history. Because to keep these negotiations domestically, as if they were any other part of a company's labour relations, it's to make it clear that labour relations are unequal relationships, and it means to delegate to businesses in a particular way the possibility of determining without controls or conditions the economy of a territory. As has just happened recently, for example, with Siemens Gamesa, who bought the staff agreement to close the factory amortizing in the area of Ferrol more than 300 industrial jobs without governments saying anything. But in this case, for the most part, we're talking about a company and a sector supposedly in transition, looking forward to clarifying investments and aid. To what extent is it legitimate or legal for the company to propose work measures for its staff without having previously clarified what will be the industrial future of the factory? Or without clarifying the wage framework that is being negotiated simultaneously in another forum? Since the BNG we are going to be careful to pronounce ourselves on the legality of this process that is being developed in Repsol Coruña, since we have certain doubts. But what we have no doubt about is that from a political point of view it is -- as I have said before -- a true nonsense and a capital irresponsibility that governments refuse to have presence, skills and instruments to participate in these processes. This is the generic and known position of the BNG with regard to labour reform, but in terms of the future of a company such as Repsol, its dimensions and transcendence -- so conditioned by government planning, administrative concessions and sectoral legislation -- the only coherent way to deal with this process is, first, clarifying the industrial future of the plant at a three-band table with the company, the governments and the social part; and, after clarifying this and at the same table, agreeing on the necessary work measures always according to the plan designed. The opposite -- that is, what's happening -- is to put the car in front of the woods and keep a staff representation blind, which with great intelligence and caution opposes the ERTE and requires investments. From here we call upon the respective governments that support both the People's Party and the PSOE to work urgently to protect industrial employment in the refinery in the Coruña region. As for the amendment of the PSOE, of course, we will accept it, without forgetting that it is most useful for Repsol's staff that our solidarity would be that you would repeal labour reform. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-27-DSPG033.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. At the end of today's agenda points, we'll suspend the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
