ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u1	Good morning. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, that, before entering the agenda, invite all of you and all of you, also to the guests who accompany us today in the rostrum, to keep a minute of silence in memory of Valeriano Martínez, councillor of Fairy and Public Administration of the Council of Galicia and also a Member of this Parliament until a few days ago, who was an exemplary public servant. Rest in peace. We'll keep a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u2	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And now, yes, the session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. There was no justification for inattentiveness, and we were simply on the agenda. As a single point, we have the annual debate on general policy, with the presence of Mr President of Galicia to inform and debate on the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Annual general policy debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u3	Mr. President of Galicia, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, counsellors and advisers, ladies and gentlemen, present authorities, Greeks and Welsh people who listen to us from their homes, my first words must be of gratitude on behalf of the whole Government and all public employees, of gratitude for all displays of affection coming from all geographic and ideological places that demonstrate that Valeriano Martínez was a beloved and respected German. Without a doubt, it's all worth it to someone who's devoted his entire professional life to working for Galicia. [[Applause]] I would expressly like to address the Galego Nationalist Block, which has agreed to delay this debate for five days to make it more serene, to recompose the Government before and close the legal deadline for the budgets -- finally, what we understand as a priority right now -- even though the deadline was finally maintained. Clearly, this is not a conventional debate. Of course, it cannot be for the members of the Government and for the Members of the People's Party. But I know that neither in the opposition stands are circumstances simple. However, we're here, and surely that's the best tribute. Rigor, normality and stability were for unappealable standards of conduct. Well, Galicia confronts today the debate about the state of our community when it belongs to it. You'll also have the 2022 budget -- that seven days ago were almost ready -- next week. I mean, when you play. [[Applause]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days the first democratic elections in Galicia will be 40 years old. The way open with the approval of our statute began to reflect on the new institutions that created and consolidated people like Valeriano Martínez. He worked on the board for almost four decades, until the last breath. The celebrations that are taking place throughout this year -- and above all in this House -- are a worthy reminder of that historic stage, but they should also serve to ask us whether we are worthy heirs of the example given to us by the Greeks who made it possible. In my opinion, here we are reporting on what has been done and marking patterns of what remains to be done, because the political and social stability that our community lives preserves the proper functioning of all democratic bodies. In Galicia that normality was never interrupted, we remain faithful to our people. The government and the self-government are still yours. It is true that something so basic should be taken for granted, but we all know that we accumulate a long stage in our country where normal seems extraordinary. Not in vain, we celebrate this parliamentary appointment in Spain that has not lived a debate about the state of the nation for almost seven years; a evident anomaly that contrasts with the normality that it maintains -- and that aspires to continue to maintain -- Greek democracy. Stability is substantial to our people. And our duty is to respect and encourage her at all times, but even more after the difficult months we left behind. For this reason, as far as I am concerned, so far as I am concerned, Galicia will continue to be a place to look for serene and constructive debates, institutions that normally operate, defend the constitutional framework and autonomy, with regard to all the opinions that are transmitted with tolerance and, above all, the place where government priorities are people's priorities. This has to be the first. [[Applause]] As a result of this conviction, I want to start this debate by sharing with the Greeks the main collective hope thanks to the new phase of the pandemic we are living, closer to the normality we have lost with the arrival of the coward-19, more just also with the enormous efforts we have all made. I give them the most relevant data. Just like when reality was difficult, and it was in a lot of moments, I'm also now keeping them informed with transparency. In this case, the comparative figures correspond to last Monday, because -- as has been happening since July 2020 -- since yesterday's holiday, the Ministry has not updated. 92.7 % of the population of Greece who may receive the vaccine is already in full range. We are the first autonomous community in Spain. The positivity level of the last seven days is 0,9 %, the second lowest and half the average of Spain. The seven-day incidence is found in 7.14 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, the smallest in Spain; and 14 days is 16.5. It's been down for seventy-five days. Of course, zero infection is, for now, a utopia, and there are still people who get infected. There are 450 positives in their homes, 36 stay on hospital floor and 9 in intensive care units. But it's unquestionable that the immunization process is working. Not in vain, during this summer, the number of contagions reached values similar to those of the third wave, which was the worst moment we lived in, but this time the results were very different. The 495 active cases today account for 97.8% less than the peak of the pandemic. We didn't have such a low incidence since August 2020. The most serious cases have been significantly reduced. Today there are nine people in the ICU, when the patients became 254 -- a reduction of 96.5% compared to the most complex moment --. Deaths in general and in the vulnerable population also fell substantially. In the last seven days four people have died, one of them yesterday. In the worst week of the pandemic, at the end of January of this year, 180 people died in the same week. In 246 municipalities, in which there are approximately one million Greeks, there have been no cases covered in the last seven days. In 216 municipalities, with almost 30 percent of the population, they have been registered for at least 14 days without registering any positive ones. So we're at a new stage, which, as you know, has allowed last week to eliminate the levels of municipal restrictions -- to focus on specific outbreaks that may arise -- a general increase in shelters up to 90% or that the most protection-oriented hostess sites can already occupy 90% of their interior and 100% of their exterior for a week ago. I would like to remind you that next week we are going to lift the health emergency situation that we declared on 13 March 2020 -- which has therefore been in force for nineteen months --. We are at the closest point we had in February 2020. You see -- now yes -- the light at the end of the tunnel. Thank you very much to all the Greeks and all the Greeks who made it possible. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this decision I have just communicated to you does not mean that we will stop taking action, and we will also continue with the social distance and masks inside, according to state law. We'll continue to give answers, with the necessary intensity, to the possible outbreaks that arise. But we understand that we can now address them with the instruments that allow the Public Health Act, adopted a few months ago in this Parliament. We lived many months under data pressure. How many contagions today?, how many dead?, how is the curve going?, will there be an end to this nightmare?... Well, every day we're still on the watch of evolution, but it's evidence that this end is already nearer. There is a desire to pass this page, a desire to stop focusing on surviving to live normal life, and it begins to be possible to look forward again. But I want to tell them we do it without forgetting what we left behind. First of all, the victims of the coronavirus, the 2,643 men and women who have been lost forever and those who remain among us with sequels of all kinds -- physical, psychological and economic sequels -- all of these will always be present. [[Applause]] Nor should we forget people who are not vaccinated. Of course, of those under 12 -- about whom we are particularly vigilant about the incidence -- we will be awaiting conclusions from the scientific community about their vaccination, which seems to be close. But I'm also referring to those who voluntarily decided not to vaccinate. It's very few because, fortunately, anti-activacin movements have little space in Galicia. But, as few as they are, we owe animals they're asking for an appointment, because at the moment they're at more risk of being infected than before through vaccinated people who can be positive but without symptoms. Thirdly, we must not rule out how we have come here. As much as the current picture allows us to be more optimistic, it remains necessary to appeal to prudence. The best data that seems to be dominating the pandemic are the fruits of vaccines, but also of the exemplary behavior of most populations. We mustn't give up on him. We resume normality wisely, especially until we can check the evolution of the disease in the fall-winter, as the experts ask us to do. Finally, I ask you not to forget the spirit that marked Galicia's response to the pandemic, the delivery of health and non-health professionals in hospitals and health centres and the rest of the workers responsible for caring for the most vulnerable in homes and homes; the commitment of all essential services by those who have never stopped, the strength of the Greeks who have civilized restrictions even when it was supposed to see their way of life committed and the unselfish participation of all the experts who have joined in decision-making -- on the clinical committee, on the educational committee, on the Socio-sanitary Advisory Committee or on the Committee of Economic Experts -- all gave the best of themselves, just as we tried to do the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the Galician pandemic he gave breathing aid to the Madrid Community. A short time ago, Madrid left us doses of vaccines for the Greeks. That also shows what we were in the pandemic. And doesn't it represent what we want to be? Of course, my answer is yes, and that's why I would like us to be able to keep alive the memory of what we have done collectively. With this objective, we intend to erect a memorial monument that will allow us to always bear in mind the deceased, to pay tribute to all those who have worked in pandemic control, who recognize the success of the vaccination process and the behaviour of our people; that ultimately serves as a reminder to the generations to come of what has happened and also as an example of how we respond. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, a shock like what we live undoubtedly leaves memories and wounds but also lessons and changes. It is unthinkable that this experience does not bring important transformations. So our goal is no longer to go back to the starting position, which does not exist. It's not just about recovering the raw internal product prior to the pandemic or the way of life that we had then; it's about adapting to the new social and economic paradigm that emerges behind the coronavirus. In this challenge there is Galicia, like the rest of Europe, like the rest of Spain and like everyone else. The pandemic has highlighted the importance of care and family Galicia. The societies with a strong welfare state give us a better answer. The world has not completely stopped during the worst crises of the coward; it has moved, in part, to the digital world and has subjected to a hard test also the innovative Galicia. Human fragility came to light and made even more evident the correctness of continuing to bet on the green Galicia. All the living conditions the future, and the future is that of young Galicia. As you can see, the challenges are not unknown to either the Government or this Parliament, we've already assumed them in 2019 and remain vigilant. But there is no doubt that the event requires measures and adapts rhythms. To accomplish this, scheduling is always the most useful tool. Thanks to planning and not improvising until the pandemic has arrived, we have achieved the most historic convergence with Spain: six uninterrupted years of growth and job creation, the best export cycle in our history, or being the community with the highest rate of wage growth in the last twelve years and the fourth in absolute terms. So this one will continue to be our way. And before the end of the year we will present the new Strategic Plan for the 2021-2030. As I tell you, aspirations do not change, but if we redirect priorities and speeds so that Galicia can be a key actor in the coming world. Before I told them that the challenges we're involved in involve all of us. The drift that follows the whole of Europe will affect Galicia, action at the national level too. In this sense, I want to share with you some reflections on the structural issues of those who depend on the future of our land, which is not in our hands to solve directly or completely but on which we have to defend ourselves together all the parties represented in this Parliament. Let me abound in six reflections. First of all -- the most important -- Galicia deserves to get married in the future. The stones that we find on our way today, and which, undoubtedly, we must look at, cannot prevent us from raising our eyes and facing the great challenges of tomorrow, especially those that compromise our own lives as a people. It is true that in recent years Galicia has managed to improve the migration balance, since 2009 they have entered our land nearly 72,000 more people than they have left. But we have to assume that this is not enough to compensate for the constant fall in the number of births. European projections point to the fact that in the year 2050 in Ourense and Lugo there will be as many retirees as people of working age. It's a statistic that exposes the seriousness of the demographic situation that we are living in not only in Galicia but also in the rest of Spain and Europe. The demographic challenge is Galicia's number one problem. It's very soon worth working for the prosperity of our land if we don't run out of Welsh and Germans who enjoy it. And tomorrow's population vitality depends on the height of sights that we have today -- I repeat -- in Galicia, Spain and Europe. The Greek homes are already benefiting from the measures that the Union has been implementing in these years to build an increasingly familiar Galicia. We are developing a social pact for housing to benefit 70,000 families. We count on the greatest offer of residential soil to make available to the Greeks more than 5,200 shelters protected, more than 100 million euros invested to take the Card Welcome to 70,000 families; 90 children's homes operating in municipalities where there was no need to reconcile; specific support for numerous families, such as the discount on the rates of autonomic highways; the Bono Care for families who cannot care for their children for justified reasons; and the pioneering free of all children's schools for second and next children, who are now helping more than 10,000 families. But we wanted to go further. That's why in this 2021 we passed the first law of demographic impulse in Spain, although unfortunately we did not count on the support of the opposition; a law that speaks of conciliation, of support for families and youth, and also of the capture of new population; because it seems to us unapproachable to the capture of new population. Ladies and gentlemen, you speak a lot and very frivolously about immigration. From Galicia we believe that we should talk about this matter, yes, but with a seriousness that is currently missing, to be able among all of us to promote a serene debate on the need for legal and orderly immigration that contributes to labour and economic development, but also to the social development of the earth. Of course, our doors are always open to all people born outside who want to live as Greeks in Galicia, with all that it implies. The doors are also open to all the Greeks from the outside. But that's almost left to say, because this one has always been and will always be his home. But we still want to go further, and that's what we'll do in 2022. As you know, both this Parliament and the Union are asking the Central Government to intervene and to co-finance the free of charge of children's schools for the first children as well. We didn't get an answer, but we won't wait for them, so we're going to concentrate the resources so that from the next course all the children's schools in Galicia are 100 percent free. All of them will be free, the public, the social initiative, the private and also the municipalities of the municipalities that are up-to-date with the consortium. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] All of them and all of the children will be free; for the second children and the next ones, such as until now, and also for the first, the firstborn. Once again, Galicia is at the vanguard of Spain making a decision that does not exist anywhere else in Spain. It's what the Greeks deserve today, but it's also -- and especially -- the Greeks tomorrow. The second structural challenge that I believe is the future of Europe at the economic and geo-strategic level, but also political, for the risk that populisms continue to move forward -- especially in some countries that are following a similar path to what we have suffered in Spain a few years ago --. The pandemic and its effects can give you the last push because they generate an optimal crop broth to make the four peaks of the populists of one and another extreme: to frustrate, deceive, confront and close; to frustrate through illusory and unrealistic horizons, to deceive by concealing reality, to manipulate debates that fragment rather than unite and close our society instead of opening it. Brexit has shown us that Europe is a solid project but that it still has weaknesses, that union is reversible and has enemies. Therefore, it is necessary to defend it and not make it rest its survival and functioning in assuming its undeniable goodness. Since Galicia, the majority of us have defended the European Union without any doubt by practicing it in the strong European region that we have with our Portuguese neighbours and also by contributing to the achievement and response of the interests of the Member States in relevant matters. In this sense, I would like to expressly celebrate that we will be able to support the announced cuts in cohesion funds, thanks to an amendment introduced -- by a European People's Party member of the European People's Party -- by a proposal from the Government of the Union, and also thanks to the joint work of the Central Government and the autonomous communities that we were affected -- basically two, Asturias and Galicia --. I also call for the same collective effort to ensure that the two major European negotiations before us -- the Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy -- also have the same results. The third concern/reflection refers to the failure of a stable institutional situation at the national level. There is a consensus that the role of public institutions will continue to be vital in the coming years, as it has already been in the most advanced moments of the pandemic. And that's why it's important that all governments respond properly to the transition that begins. I humbly believe that until now the communities have been up to what was expected of us, and we have given a great lesson to those who repeatedly questioned and question the state of autonomy. In Galicia we organize the public health system and overcome each stress situation. We accompany the largest package of direct aid to all sectors that saw their future committed to closures. We approved economic incentives through the reorganisation of the budget and the approval of a reactivation plan with EUR 3,000 million. We lead the investment effort across Spain. We have helped not to aggravate the situation by a welcome payment of autonomous taxes, or by being the administration that pays the suppliers in the short term -- twice as fast as the average of the autonomous communities --. It's not our exclusive merit. The fundamental decisions to face this unprecedented challenge have been taken in the whole of autonomous communities. We face at all times and in all circumstances. We did it without any parentheses or hesitations. [[Applause]] By this I don't mean that the role of the Central Government was non-existent. In fact, in some areas -- for example in the management of RTEs or liquidity -- it was relevant. The Covid Fund that approved for autonomous communities was also a correct one, as we differed -- as you know -- from the criteria for the distribution of the first fund, which were fortunately corrected in the second. By the way, let me at this point claim -- as my colleagues are doing, presidents of autonomous communities of a different political sign -- the maintenance of a fund covered in the 2022 budget, which we know is not collected in the accounts approved by the Council of Ministers that we hope to know in depth today. It would make no sense if we asked the communities to extend decisions that were needed to deal with the pandemic, and we implemented changes derived from it, while at the same time we were deprived of resources for that. It is inconsistent to defend extraordinary or new measures with regular resources. As I told you, of course, the central government has brought important approaches in these months, but if I believe -- and so I believe -- the transfer loyally -- that follows an erratic course that requires it to correct. So much so that the maximum responsible for Spanish health left his position in the midst of a pandemic to become a candidate for the presidency of an autonomous community; or that from the parties that support the central government itself, motions of censure were instigated to change autonomic governments in full wave of cases. I am concerned that this attitude is continuing to deal with the big debates ahead. We need a clear interlocutor with which to debate and agree. We find ourselves with missing ministries, with departments with diffuse competences and with responsible ones who overlap or compete with each other. We went to the Conference of Presidents without knowing that, without documentation, without agenda, many times with decisions already taken and publicly communicated in advance. Since the beginning of the pandemic, only two meetings of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council have been held. And instead, the fate of public resources has been decided randomly; the whim of each ministry, on occasion, or as a currency of payment for parliamentary support, other times. Tell me it's not an exclusive complaint from Galicia, but we share most of the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is being particularly alarming in the distribution of the Next Generation funds, the fourth concern I'm transferring to them. We're having all the less co-governance, but, what's even worse, there's no governance either. There are no clear regulations or standards or criteria. Of course, it is not true that communities manage 50% of the funds that we have been promised. At present, only 36.7 % of them have been transferred to us. Now, most come up with criteria markedly, where Galicia can't intervene at all. Honestly, I don't know if there are departments behind this that are overrun by a hard-to-manage business or if it's a smoke curtain to prevent any strict control. What I do certify is that the de-government and arbitrariness with which the funds are being managed adversely affects the interests of the Greeks. In quantitative terms, Galicia is receiving EUR 610 million less than we should see if there was a fair distribution of the Next Generation and the Covid Fund. And from a qualitative point of view, more resources are being obtained from those communities with greater income capacity, against the European criterion and also from the coherent reconstruction to which we should aspire as a country. On the other hand, there is also no roadmap that allows us to predict certain deadlines and phases in this process. 15 months have passed since the European Union approved the Recovery Plan. All this time, we communities wander from department to department, one responsible to another, trying to get some light. In Galicia in April we sent all the members of the Government, all the members of the Central Government, the 354 projects we have designed, and sometimes they have no response or, in most cases, have had a procedural receipt charge. A few weeks ago, the first vice president of the Government asked us to prioritize between one and three projects -- I repeat, between one and three projects --. This is the whole realization so far. Of course we will forward this proposal to the Central Government, I hope that with some prior collaboration by the opposition parties, if they consider it appropriate. But honestly, after that, what? NETHERLANDS are not exactly known for their approval. We don't know what deadlines or priorities the government runs. Businesses also warn of great confusion, and the State Council itself has warned of uncontrollability. The Next Generation is an unrepeatable occasion to transform Galician economy and management errors, arbitrariness and the lack of transparency of the central government can't turn them into a missed opportunity, we can't afford it. [[Applause]] The fifth major concern, ladies and gentlemen, is what we know for now about the state budget for next year. What we know is that it continues to increase exponentially the debt and public spending. The public deficit was 11 % last year, and with 6 % we were about to be intervened. Last year was 11 %, and 8.4% is planned for this year 2021. The public deficit is at historic peaks. And the President of the Government himself announced a containment effort in the coming years to compensate for a budget gap of more than 123,000 million euros. We have to ask ourselves how we're going to lower our spending by €123 billion. Over the past few months, we have talked about a possible indiscriminate rise in taxes, a substantial delay in retirement age, or, for example, imposing taxes or an annual quota on all roads in the Spanish nation. It's a matter of silence enough to address them in the forums of common debate, instead of doing it through balloon probes that all they cause is a great insecurity that we all pay, workers, companies and institutions. In Galicia we want to know if yes or no, who, when and how. And we also want -- especially that -- today's ads are not the crisis tomorrow. [[Applause]] Galicia's desire is that all these issues are addressed from loyalty, from institutional loyalty to citizens, who have the right to know what they are dealing with. A good conversation favors everyone, transparency also. We'll be next to the Central Government if we pursue a responsible policy. No debate to be faced to shield the future of the next generations must be eluded. But, yes, we refuse to make it easier and make citizens bear loads that can be avoidable. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an economic model of what has been spoken of in recent months with different achievements. Let's review some of the ads: the rise of corporate tax, a new tax on housing owners, new diesel tax, the rise of registration tax, annual rate or fees on all highways, the rise of plastic tax, new tax on plane tickets, the elimination of tax benefit on pension plans, the rise of maximum rates of contribution or tax on income of physical persons. To collect, even a law was passed to prevent them from taxing their inheritances alive, as we decided in Galicia according to our powers and our civil rights. And several times it has been hidden in harmony with the rising successions and heritage, which, as you know, are two tributes handed over to the communities. This is the model of the central government today, either in force or announced in different public documents -- some of them sent to the European Union --. I'd like to ask the opposition parties if this is also their proposal for Galicia. If so, we differ. It is legitimate to use fiscal policy to advance Spain's progress. It is legitimate to adapt taxes to different social changes. It's legitimate to move forward towards fiscal harmonisation between communities, whenever it's on the ground. What is not legitimate is that the Central Government intends to build the Arcadia with which its coalition partners dream through a massive tax rise to everyone. What is not legitimate is that, after an economic crisis and a pandemic, if you intend to tighten up even more a citizenship that has already suffered enough. What is not legitimate is to make short-term policy on a debt that will have to face next generations. If the formula is "more debt and more taxes," it governs anyone. [[Applause]] There's another model, ladies and gentlemen. It is the Greek model, which we defend not only with words, but by practicing it. In recent years in Galicia three circumstances have always coincided: more investment, less debt and less taxes. We invested with the highest intensity, and we've always been at the top of the national table in the investment chapter under our own budget. The difference between other communities, we understand that this is not the time to aspire to surplus. We've allocated almost twice as much as the average to the spending that creates wealth: 13.5% of the non-financial expenditure in Galicia -- the average is 7.2% --. Second, despite this, we've been monitoring our accounts. We are the community that has increased its debt since 2009, and the third common regime with the lowest public debt. And thirdly, we lower the taxes at the rate that could be achieved at any time. We have achieved that since 2009 the Greeks had more than EUR 1 billion in their pockets; less IRPF is paid -- especially the lowest incomes -- has eliminated the succession tax for 99.9%, the total practice of the Greeks; zero taxes to transmit farms in rural areas; we have lowered the tax on money transfers and documented legal acts -- to a greater extent for young people, large families and persons with disabilities, and in these cases we have eliminated it completely to buy housing in small areas -- ; we have lower taxes on those who are betting on green investments; less IRPF and less wealth tax for those who are rehabilitated in historical helmets. That's the model, gentlemen. And I've already told you that he's still going to be. The next exercise's accounts will again include a tax reduction for the Greeks and the Greeks. If this path is possible in Galicia, it may also be possible for the Spanish set. [[Applause]] I shall leave for the final part of this paragraph the reference to the system of self-financing, which the Central Government intends to review in the near future. However, this subject -- along with the demography -- undoubtedly occupies the first position on our scale of concerns. No policy, no measure, will be complete if you do not have sufficient economic support. And, as you know, the main channel of income that we have in our autonomous communities comes from the funding system -- the VAT, the IRPF and the distribution of the rest of the funds -- from which we play so much in this negotiation. Nor is this an exclusive anxiety of Galicia. Next November 2nd, eight communities will meet in Santiago to address different common concerns, especially this one. Galicia, of course, Asturias, Aragon, Castile and León, Castela-A Mancha and La Rioxa will continue a stable forum for several years, and which now extends with Cantabria and Extremadura. There are eight presidents belonging to three different political parties, and one out of four Spaniards will be represented at that meeting, 62 % of the territory of the Spanish nation will be represented at this meeting. I want to tell you, first of all, that I am proud that our land is once again a stage of the politics that is worth it. And I also want to tell you that I'm proud to integrate an alliance that doesn't go against anyone and is open to everyone. In fact, without going any further, next week I'll hold a meeting with President Andalusian and we'll also address our respective visions of self-financing together. Ladies and gentlemen, we often talk about different fronts in this debate. In fact, there are them, but not how often they appear. The confrontation is not between communities that have the greatest population and those in which, as is the case with Galicia, it weighs more other factors, such as aging or dispersal. All these communities understand each other. We understand ourselves and, above all, we are prepared to debate and reach an agreement. The real confrontation -- and therefore the real problem we're going to face -- lies between those we want a multilateral dialogue and those who want another one to suit it. I want to make it clear -- and I hope with the support of all the parties in this Parliament, if possible -- that autonomous funding is not decided on at a bilateral table with the only autonomous government that openly expresses itself against the nation. The big question is whether the autonomous communities of Spain will have an impartial referee to order this crucial debate or whether that referee is hypothesized by a player, and which, moreover, does not comply with the regulation. We fear -- and thus manifest in front of this House -- that the so-called "dialogue" with the independenceists makes it impossible for any other model of funding that does not fully satisfy the independent parties. According to the proposals they publicly state, there would not be a common model of self-financing, but at different levels according to secessionist demands. Alert beyond which are the true intentions of this bilateral negotiation to our understanding. You have said that the parable of the prodigal son is being applied. By following that analogy, those we oppose have sinned of a lack of generosity, or even of a spirit of revenge against the independentists. But we are faced with an incomplete version of the parable. In this case, neither does the child want to return to the common house -- Spain -- nor does it show any intention to reform his goals. Therefore, the gratifications that the Government can offer have no desire to rebuild anything; among other things, because, if something has independence, it's insatiable when asking for compensation. The only thing you really want is parliamentary support for a precarious executive. That's all. However, the interests of the State are not the same as the interests of the central government of shift. Consequently, our country cannot be a hostage to the parliamentary weaknesses of its President. [[Applause]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the bilateral dialogue between each autonomous community and the central administration is essential in many respects. We ourselves have opened it up and, in fact, I hope that the bilateral commission will be reconvened in the coming weeks following the provision made by the Central Government to speed up the transfers that we believe to be priority, especially the management of the earthly public domain or the transfer of the title of the motorway of the Atlantic. However, autonomous funding is not possible without a coherence in the model, which can only be achieved among all. Galicia is not alien to that which can be agreed upon in an opaque process and will therefore enforce its interests if they are preserved or prejudiced. I trust to interpret at this point the feeling of the House and ask for support for the new model to contain the weight that corresponds to the dispersion and aging. In the same way, I also hope for your support so that the central government budgets are not approved in accordance with independent positions. It would not be understandable that there were Greek parties to support this comparative harm. In any case, I hope that this point will be discussed further this afternoon, after a first look at the accounts that are being presented today in Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, to advocate for orderly, transparent and fair public accounts is essential to maintain quality public services. It is incompatible to attribute the defence of health, education and public social services and, at the same time, to promote funding that favours territories over others; that is, people over others. Here, in these debates that I just mentioned, a great opportunity to prove where everyone is. I can assure you where the Union will be: in equality and equal opportunities for all Spaniards living where they live. [[Applause]] It has been said in recent months that the pandemic has exposed the importance of public services. I disagree. Since the beginning of the pandemic, Galicia has increased its social budget by 767 million euros, 10.4%, by far above the average of the autonomous communities, which have done so by 6.8%. But since 2009, the board's social budget has increased by 1.523 million euros -- that is, 23% more --. And we'll continue on the same line. Next year's budgets will refocus health, education and social policy. The weight of these areas will increase to 71 % of the total expenditure. No, we didn't need a pandemic, because we already knew that armoring public services was a priority before, during and after it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, since March 2020 we have dealt with several waves that have brought the health system to the limit, which also strained social centres and conditioned schools. With all humility, but also with collective pride, I must say that the public system has been able to respond at all critical times. I understand that the election results of a year ago support this statement, but the most important thing is that it is also evaluated by the data. We are the peninsular community with the lowest rate of mortality due to covid, almost half of the average in Spain. The impact of covid on residences and disability centers is also lower in Galicia than in Spain. We are the peninsula community with a lower rate of deceased over the number of residents. Equally, the condition of coronavirus to the educational community was lower than in the general population -- 3.7% in the educational community, 4.7% in the general population. Galicia is the peninsula community with fewer infections per inhabitant. The average in Spain is 52% higher than the one we had here. This balance, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to health and non-health professionals who cared for the sick and the educational community, who followed the protocols in kindergartens, schools, institutes and universities. It belongs to all the Greeks who have closed business and to all those who have complied with the rules. Without any doubt, without them it would be impossible. I must add that we wouldn't have managed it without people who are rarely recognized by their work, whether directly or indirectly managed by the health administration. Galicia has moved forward in the purchase of respirators and has acquired the protective material of which the central government has only given us. Protocols have been developed for all activities. We were pioneers in many of the diagnostic formulas that were then consolidated everywhere; and also in creating integrated residences to transfer infected patients to them. One of the first communities to intervene in private residences was Galicia. We are leaders in number of crows. We've been doing housewives every week in the residences or testing entire towns and municipalities. Can you imagine the logistical effort that I have subjected to the vaccination process in the most dispersed population in Spain and what more population nuclei has? So we did it when there were few vaccines, and we opened massive vaccination centers when the doses came to a greater extent. And we're Spain's number one community on one-dose vaccination and double-dose vaccination. [[Applause]] We started two essential debates: to update the health legislation to manage a pandemic and to give value to the covered certificate -- two matters, in addition, referred to by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, and appealed by the Government of Spain --. We responded to the social crisis associated with the pandemic with pioneering measures such as the Basic Card, which supported 60,000 users -- people in need --. All of this was a titanic effort and we have the duty to value it in this Chamber. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we arrived at the pandemic with a reinforced health system. Everything would be much more difficult without the Telea system, which has been operating since 2015 and has allowed home follow-up to 100,000 infected and 200,000 close contacts. Everything would be more difficult without tools like home hospitalization, in the process of expansion throughout Galicia. Everything would be harder without the phone appointment, available in primary care since 2013. Or it would be much more difficult without renewed infrastructure, like the two major hospitals of Vigo and Lugo. What would happen during the pandemic at the Calde General Hospital or at the hospital in downtown Vigo? What would happen in your emergency? What would happen in your ICU? How would we solve the pandemic in these cities? Everything would be harder if we hadn't done a new hospital building in Ourense. Everything would be harder if we weren't expanding and reforming the comarcal hospitals. Everything would be harder if we didn't build or reform 89 health centers in recent years. I didn't make these decisions, ladies. I'm the result of a health management job in which many people participated -- most of them, health care --. Only the fact that they adopted themselves under a given government does not justify denying all those who made them possible the applause they deserve. [[Applause]] On the other hand, recognizing the correctness is also part of the self-assessment process that is necessary to face up to, from there, extract lessons. At Junta, this is what we are doing, both in the short and medium term, in health care, education and social services. I would like to confirm to you, firstly, that we will be prepared to administer the third dose of the vaccine on the basis of decisions on the order and timing of the experts. We're also increasing our defenses against cowardice, we're perfecting the epidemiological alert system, with elements like the big date or the reinforcement of tracking systems, and also equipping us with last-generation sequencers to decipher the new variants more axially. Another priority is to complete the plan of recovery of ordinary care activity that has been lost during the months of confinement. They know that the forecast is to complete 230,000 extraordinary assistance acts. And the truth is, although the third wave was under major pressure in hospitals, we were able to carry out the planning for surgical activity and consultations. This is already being translated into reducing waiting times, over last year, in 40 days for tests, 30 for surgeries and 23 for first consultations. We also began to recover normality in primary care, especially with the return to presence in health centers -- already above telephone care --. And, of course, we're dealing with the consequences of the vault. Through the "posscovid units" almost thirty optional people are paying multidisciplinary attention to people who have overcome the disease but who have more serious effects. More than 5,000 consultations have already been held. And we also strengthen the tools to respond to one of the worst consequences of the pandemic, the mental health condition, with a specific plan for the next four years with 83 million euros. Mental health care is an objective of legislation, as we face it and as we develop it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to respond to the most urgent health demands of the pandemic but without forgetting that we also call ourselves -- as we speak in investment -- to a full review of the long-term public service roadmap. Let me transfer some of the targets below. There is a task that is permanent and common to all public services: ensuring a sufficient and prepared professional allocation. We've been working on that goal for some time now. Since 2009, Galicia has increased its public employment to more than 2,000 places. We were one of the first autonomys to resume the selective processes after the pandemic with a protocol of safe oppositions. We exhaust every year the replenishment rate that allows the Law of General State Budgets. And the latest data from the Ministry of Finance places Galicia at the lowest rate of time across Spain, 12 points below average. In any case, the goal is to continue to work to reduce temporality to 7%, as we have agreed with trade unions. The results of this are at your disposal. The number of public health professionals is at historic peaks. We are still, together with Estremadura, the community with a better ratio of teachers/pupils in public education throughout Spain; and public health residences have increased their staffing by 5.2% in recent months. These are the data, ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality. [[Applause]] This doesn't mean we're not self-critical where there's scope for action, and in this area I'd like to stop in two areas of public health that we're particularly concerned about. First, it is essential that the Central Government completely eliminate the existing replacement rate. In a number of professional categories, we can't only cover retirements. And the small increase announced for next year is insufficient. We need to remove any limits so that communities can work accordingly with each other's situation. This would enable us, firstly, to reduce timeliness; and secondly, to occupy less requested squares. I'm thinking about everything in some medical specialties in comarcal hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal just made by the Central Government -- 120% of the replacement rate -- in Galicia we can convene 1,200 squares. And with the proposal of the Galician Council, we could convene 3,500 squares in health care. Honestly, I don't understand the lock and that's why I ask again for the satiety that the central government lifts the veto of the replacement rate. [[Applause]] Secondly, the deficit of professionals in primary care must be specifically addressed, and I repeat the urgency. In Galicia we have done everything within our powers. We pushed the continuity contract, which was key to the pandemic recruitment and which gives stability to staff -- in fact, next year more than 80 doctors who hosted this figure will be converted into structural squares --. We were pioneers in introducing the category of family and community nurse, and today there are about 100 professionals in this category working in Sergas -- the first autonomous community in the state --. And let them know that this week we will begin the processing of a decree to develop the part that corresponds to the specialized health training in Galicia that gives more support to the tutors of the new doctors. But also on this subject, the real involvement of the central government is essential, and I want to positively value the meeting that the health minister called for two weeks ago to finally address all together in the Interterritorial Health Council the problems of primary care. Finally, the Central Government sits to try, within its competences, to shed some light on a problem that was hidden in the Ministry. We continue to demand that the MIR squares, especially family doctors and pediatricians in primary care, are greatly increased. And to this end, to start this month, we will submit a minimum of 50 new applications for teaching accreditation to have more training units of new doctors. We hope that the flexibility committed by the Ministry will allow them to accept them. Ladies and gentlemen, in parallel with professional staffing, public services are also subject to a new paradigm to be faced. I shall briefly refer to the aspects that seem most relevant to me. In the case of public health we may face the most disruptive changes since this area was transferred to autonomous communities. In Galicia we were already immersed before the pandemic in a strong process of renewal to respond to our own reality. Galicia is developing in parallel the Strategy of attention to chronicity and the Home Hospitalization Plan, with which we renew our commitment to reach all of Galicia. To deal with the growing proliferation of cancers, we have established fast or general pathways to detect tumors like breast cancer -- for a long time -- the colon cancer or cervix cancer. There's a constant evolution of pathologies and also treatments that force us to be updated, and we'll do it again next year with the approval of the new health strategy in Galicia. Similarly, we have done an ingenious work to modernize primary care so that a health center is not only the gateway to the system but the main influence to promote public health in the environment. We're committed to a more agile, more useful and closer primary, and this commitment is also reflected in budgets. Primary care represents almost one third of the total health expenditure. In Galicia's history, he never had primary attention with so many human and budgetary resources at his disposal. With precise resources, the hands of professionals and experts in this field of health, and through the creation of a specific general direction to address this issue, we are in progress. [[Applause]] The result of this work has been some of the results: the definition of service portfolios that cover primary care, ranging from family medicine and pediatrics to physiotherapy or dentistry -- this enables us to move forward in a fair provision throughout the community and all health centres -- ; the impulse of local health plans, which provide greater autonomy for the management of care demand, the redistribution of tasks and the improvement of the relationship between primary, hospital and social services at Community level; we also move on the reduction of bureaucracy in the work of the faculty and the improvement of the tools of the administrative staff, and we will proceed to open in the coming days a public consultation process to gather the sector's views on the renewal of the regulatory decree on primary care management adopted in 1993. Another of the changes that involves a turning point in the field of health is telemedicine. There's no doubt that you have a huge potential -- as we're already checking --. There wasn't so much that we could renew recipes by phone, it seemed science fiction that a surgeon could participate in a surgical intervention several kilometers away from where the patient was found, it wasn't believed to be possible to take out the cell phone and have a videoconsultation. All this is possible today in Galicia and we have to be aware that it is a process that does not go back. That's why we will continue to advance in the implementation of the so-called "eighth health area", a digital health area that helps not only in the day-to-day life but in anticipation of disease and in identifying patterns of pathologie behavior. It's a virtual health center model, with the use of big data, artificial intelligence and which, among other things, offers many options that Galicia is willing to take advantage of. But the fact that this is an irreversible model, telemedicine also means being aware of its obligations. And I want to refer to them. It takes a deep debate to ensure the good use of the possibilities offered by telemedicine, both by patients and professionals. Abuse or abuse can make a useful tool for improving public health if used otherwise, to hinder it. We can't afford that. On the other hand, telemedicine must take new steps in the field of innovation, processes and infrastructure. In recent months Galicia has placed itself at the vanguard of innovative treatments. We've incorporated surgical robots from Da Vinci -- the ones that are currently of utmost precision -- into the seven health areas. We became the first community to have HIFU technology for the treatment of essential tremor. We're starting custom cancer therapies using CAR-T technology. And we're still working on incorporating proton therapy, a form of more powerful but less aggressive cancer radiation for healthy tissues. They know that right now only two private centers in Spain offer this therapy. We want Galicia to have it. Likewise, our bet on improving health infrastructure is also continued and irreversible. It's not enough that 85% of the Greeks have a hospital less than thirty minutes from their home, it's not enough that we've already been operating on all public hospitals in the network and we've been taking, in terms of legislation -- one year -- 17 new or renovated primary centers. Nor is it enough for us to implement a plan to renew and modernise technological equipment with an amount of EUR 60 million. Greek public health must always aspire to more. That's why in this quarter we will present the new Primary Care Infrastructure Plan. That's why the new hospitals of the Coruña, Pontevedra and Ferrol are underway. And we've already started the process of extending the Santiago Hospital and the Ourense Hospital. These five large hospitals are in progress; and the other two large hospitals, completed and in service. And that is why we are carrying out new performances in all local hospitals: in Valdeorras, the major outpatient surgery reforms are under way, in the day-to-day hospital and pharmacy; in Monforte there are works completed since Monday in the oncohematologic hospital, and we will continue to work on the master plan -- 15 million euros -- ; we will provide Salnes with a sterilization centre once it has been expanded both in emergencies and in hospital; in Barbados we will complete the expansion of the emergency areas, we will immediately begin the work in the endoscopy area and we will already have the functional plan to bid for the extension of the hospital area; in the Navy we have invested 15 million euros in the extension of the hospital, we will provide the hospital with an annex building and we will reform the areas of surgery and UCI; we will complete the expansion of the emergencies in summer and we will commit the concrete energy efficiency works; and we will already bid the emergency reform project in Cee. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks have been listening here for years since this rostrum that Junta wants to close the comarcal hospitals, but the reality is that the comarcal hospitals are renovating, expanding and improving their services every year. [[Applause]] Outside the health chapter, one of the areas we're dealing with is a transformation of the health centres. No other area concerns us both in Galicia, and in the whole world, as well as the homes of older people. And in no other way can we learn so much about the ways to keep improving. From the year 2022 Galicia will begin to implement a new model of more ambitious residences and the most vanguard of all Spain. Starting at a starting point that was already significantly higher than most communities, we will manage to place the Welsh residences as leaders at the national level in the care of older people. The Sociosanitary Advisory Committee is finishing a job -- in my opinion, of exceptional quality -- that will be delivered to this Parliament in the coming weeks. I would like to advance some of the measures that will take place over the next year: the first intermediate care units in Galician history, in which people who, after receiving a discharge in the hospital, need social assistance for a certain time before returning to their homes will be created; the first ongoing training plan of the residential sector will be launched in our community to improve the training of professionals in this new paradigm; an autonomous command board will be established to follow in real time the situation of all Galician residences; and regulations will be reformed so that all new residences will be divided into living units of at most 25 people, who will serve as small homes within each centre. This is an unprecedented modernization effort. The Greek residences will advance for several decades and will be very situated in front of the centres that exist in other parts of Spain. Whoever wants or has to live in a residence will have specialized care tailored to their needs. [[Applause]] But those who prefer to grow older in their home, in their neighborhood or in their village will not be alone, there will be all support, as always and more never ever: as always, offering a home-help service in the home which is one of the most extensive houses in Spain, and more than ever before, because we will take the necessary measures to keep more people in attendance throughout the whole of this legislation and to keep their sustainability shielded; as always, always, by paying attention to rural parishes through the homes of the largest, and more than ever before, because this year we took the number of centres opened throughout Galicia until we reach almost 100 people throughout Galicia until we reach more people throughout this entire country; as always, by bringing the services where the older people reside, and more than ever before ever, because in the first half of the year 2022 we will pick up the bus bus most carefully the door-to-door bus most, and more than ever again, we will take it to 200 of city centres open to the gate to door; as always, as always, as always, by filling the biggest people, as usual alone alone alone, and as ever, and as ever, and as ever, and as ever more than ever, because in the next year, because in the next year as we will the next year, we will be as we will the next year, we will be as we will be as we will be as we will be as we will be as we will be as we will, we will, we will, we will, we will, we will, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the next year as we will see the next year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year, we will see the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year We bet on extending the services but also agitating access to them. We are aware that there are still many families who wait longer than reasonable to get the help of dependency. For them, in the next few months, we're going to complete the deployment we're making of the dependent shock plan, which will allow us to reduce half the time the families spend on procedures and offer them as soon as the service that the elders prefer. After health and social policy, the pandemic also had a decisive impact on education. In addition to measures to ensure health security, Galicia has put in place plans that have been crucial to ensure the right to education and care for students, such as the Virtual Education Plan, the Vulnerable Student Care Plan and the Emotional Welfare Plan, to reduce stress situations and that do not affect academic development. Similarly, our education system has also begun to apply very important lessons that will also be left stuck in the future and will speed up many of the changes that we have already put into operation. Thus, we have already approved the first Plan of the new pedagogical architecture, with an investment of more than EUR 190 million in this legislation; we promote the digital transformation of teaching with the EduDigital 2030 strategy, which advocates the implementation of artificial intelligence teachings, the formation of teachers and the digitization of centres; or we will create a centre specialized in digital education and innovation and educational research, based in the Fontán Building, of the City of Culture, recently completed. Despite the pandemic, Galicia has just lived the best time of its education system: we have reduced school dropout to half; we have achieved the best historical results in PISA; we have consolidated the model based on multilingualism; we have maintained university rates as the lowest in Spain; we have increased more than ever the offer of vocational training and we have achieved an educational model that is at the head of European countries in equality of students. These results point to our path so that the 2030 Galicia can say again that our education is a guarantee of equal opportunities and future. [[Applause]] I don't want to finish this public service review without remembering the great effort that has been made since justice at this time, being aware that the pandemic has also been lost -- very important in this area --. Telematic views in the confinement or approval of a shock plan to recover the delayed activity made it possible to overcome this situation in part. Of course, at the same time, we have met since June. We have fulfilled the Technology Modernization Plan of the Trials and we have completed the Infrastructure Plan, which allowed us to open new judicial headquarters in Ourense, double the one in Pontevedra, extend the one in Santiago, expand the one in Ferrol and rehabilitate the Tobacco Factory in Coruña, to which will be added the new City of Justice in Vigo, the city of the most important justice in the northwest of Spain. A more agile, more digital and more accessible justice is a goal that reaches us all, so we must recognize everyone who works to achieve it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the proper development of measures such as those we have just mentioned depends on our welfare state in the future. But there is something that will never change or change: it is also subject to the economy, its evolution over the next few years and its ability to modernise itself. In this paragraph, I want to start by highlighting the new context that is also open, and that we can summarize with the data we know last week about work recovery. Finally Galicia has less unemployment and more social security affiliations than before the pandemic. We must recognize the collective work that has made it possible to return to the path of recovery. It is a merit of those sectors that were able to grow despite the pandemic: the agri-food sector, the sea sector or the technology. But also those who, after having been profoundly affected, have reopened their business. I would like to highlight first of all the great lesson given by the tourist and host sector this summer. Many voices have been used by the pandemic to try to minimize the role of tourism in our economy, and many have also questioned the usefulness of being restrictive in the first half of this year in order to reach summer in the best conditions. There have been people who have even come to question whether or not we should be able to provide help in these areas. Together was the first to do so and gradually the other administrations recovered to a greater or lesser extent. And here's the results: Galicia exceeded 98% of the pre-pandemic tourist demand; we were the second community recovering travelers and overnights in the state as a whole; we registered the second best hoster demand of all history -- after the summer of 2017 -- ; camppings and tourist apartments marked historic peaks; we reached the goal of delivering 150,000 composites three months before the end of the year -- we will recover two out of every three compounds delivered in the summer record of 2019 --. Whatever it is, Galicia has been perceived as a secure destination by most Spaniards. Despite those who care, tourism is and will continue to be one of our main strengths, and that's why our commitment is to make full use of it, with the impulse that also allows the first biennial Jacob of our history. Ladies and gentlemen, before the pandemic we were told that Jacob 2021 is more than one event -- or three, if we also count those of 2027 and 2032 --. We have a decade ahead of us to show all our potential, and now also to recover the illusion after a surely fast time. Since June we've been working on the Xacobeo Strategic Plan, which amounts to EUR 247 million, which guarantees some Santiago roads, a stronger network of hostels -- with 14 new shelters -- a mountain of revitalized Gozo and improved Santiago entrances. And, of course, we're working to be able to develop in the next year all the cultural and festive events that were not possible in this 2021. I hope the Central Government is also involved. I would like to expressly acknowledge that he was formally more interested than the state executive in the previous year of the year of 2010. It certainly wasn't hard, as everyone will remember. In this sense, in the same way that you have already agreed to participate in the funding of the Road BIC Recovery Plan, we ask you to carry out other participations, such as the extension of the logical tax reliefs until December 2023; a greater involvement at the budgetary and planning level, also with the priority of the Road in the campaigns of Turespaña abroad; a plan of improvements in the Road, which complements the effort we have made in this area, and other initiatives such as the programming that we jointly committed on July 25th in the Royal Patronate of Santiago City. In the presence of His Majesty El-Rei, the president of the Government, the mayor of Santiago and myself show the intention to allocate nearly 300 million euros this decade, and it must be accomplished. I refer firstly to the tourism sector, but it is true that the recovery of the economy is being common in almost every sector. Galegos of culture, Germans of commerce, Germans of hospitality, nocturnal leisure, children's leisure, orchestras and all kinds of companies in crisis responded and resisted in an unprecedented situation, and they managed to reach here most of them. Indeed, it's increasing the overall recruitment -- 16 % --, the indefinite -- more than 22 % -- and also full-time -- almost 13 % --. As a result, there is also a steady decline in people protected by ERTE. More than 94% of the workers who had to accommodate this figure in Galicia have already left. In addition, overall economic recovery is occurring in greater proportion than on the national average. GDP, exports or industrial production index, for example, recorded better behavior than in Spain as a whole -- to a good extent because we also managed to better contain the effects of the pandemic --. None of this would be possible without the joint effort that, as a society, we have made to support the areas that have been most affected. Galegos were rescued by other Greeks : with around 600 million euros of the Galician budget in direct aid plans have alleviated the suffering of nearly 73,000 families; with tax vacations that were held at worst 1 out of every 5 self-tax contributors; or with loans for firms in difficulty for more than 115 million euros. [[Applause]] As the people put all that was in our hand, we did everything we could. We must make this recognition in measure. Logically, there are consequences of the pandemic that we're sure we didn't get, or that they were irreversible. They are also perfectly aware that the communities were not able to convince the central government to address all the measures we considered necessary. For example, lower the VAT of the tourism sector on a temporary basis or lower the VAT of the hairdressers on a temporary basis. I hope, however, that for the next few months we can achieve a gradual lifting of protection measures and not abrupt until the reactivation is consolidated. In this specific way, we ask the central government to strengthen the transition mechanisms for the workers who follow in ERTE. On the one hand, with incentives for companies to get out of this situation and, on the other hand, by linking the ERTE to training measures to strengthen the preparation of our human capital. As far as Galicia is concerned, that escalation is guaranteed. First of all, because we will continue to help -- as we have so far -- the sectors that have suffered most of the crisis. In the coming days, we'll launch a new call for the rescue plan to correct the deficiencies that we have suffered from administrations and affected by the conditions that were marked in Madrid. In addition, we will promote a specific financial support programme for companies. Through it we modify the decree of avais to simplify the lines of support for the productive tissue. We'll open the line of strategic loans to more sectors and actions. And for the first time, there will be partially repayable loans, so that entrepreneurs who come to them will not have to return them completely if they materialize an investment that generates wealth and employment. It is ultimately about bringing damage and accompanying the most immediate reactivation. This is also the priority target, and that's why we're developing four lines of action that I briefly summarize: -- Encourage consumption, as we did with the Good Trade, the Tourist Bonus or, more recently, with the Good Culture -- a model where we were pioneers and which, as you know, now seems to be replicated --. -- Secondly, we will try to attract investments: we will maintain the subsidies to acquire industrial soil -- which have increased sales in a very important way -- ; we will accompany business projects by strengthening the approach to venture capital; we will develop a computer program equipped with artificial intelligence available on the web that serves as support for pemes in the search for help lines that fit their projects; we will incorporate advice to pemes directly so that they can receive help in the configuration of their projects; and of course, the mechanisms of the Simplification Law are available. -- Third track: we will recover the international agenda to maintain the export path of our companies, with the aim of conquering 8,000 exporting Greek companies and a total export of 25,000 million euros in the year 2025. -- Finally, we understand that it is necessary to strengthen the skills of the Greek workers in order to improve the quantity and quality of employment, especially with regard to young Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, education is already being key to this goal, especially thanks to the adaptation of the map of university qualifications and the modernization of vocational training. In this sense, I would like to thank both the involvement of universities -- their directors and government teams -- as well as companies to support dual FP and continue to increase the extraordinary figures of employment in this field. All of this adds up to training in the field of work, which already existed before the pandemic and which, in the light of the data, yields results. That's why we're going to strengthen and rethink it with the modernization of employment offices; with flexible digital training, adapted and continued throughout the working life of workers; with the design of entrepreneurship laboratories in each region -- because each one has different needs and potential -- and working to have an up-to-date, faster and more practical training. I'd like to stop at this point more deeply. Ladies and gentlemen, we all often see that there are clearly inadequate professional areas, something that could be justified with full employment but not with the unemployment rates that exist in Spain as a whole. The unemployed in general, and especially the young, have to know that in these areas there are alternatives to life that we must not give up. And that message we must try to transmit it all together. I announce to you that in the coming weeks we will promote a great deal of agreement with all the agents who can shape the Galician Business Capabilities and Needs Agenda, with the trade union and employers' organizations, of course, but also with the self-employed, professional associations, chambers of commerce, third sector entities, training entities, clusters and associations and universities. In the field of employment, we must all be one to cross supply and demand and be able to adapt training to the real needs of the labour market. However, the biggest thing we can do for recovery is to be able to take advantage of opportunities. As I told you earlier, our goal is not only to recover the macro indicators that we had before the coronavirus, but also to regain the path we were heading towards a new economy in Galicia that is more innovative and greener. [[Applause]] As far as innovative Galicia is concerned, we are already the second autonomy with greater productivity growth in the last decade. At this time innovation has grown in Galicia more than twice the average in Spain. We have the highest R & D investment since there's data. And there are more people than ever working in this field -- more than 10,000. However, we don't comply. For this, one of the keys is to continue to retain talent more intensely. I announce to you that we are going to take a very important step in order to achieve this. We've made a lot of progress in this area over the past few years, it's true, but it's also true that the conditions of researchers are diverse and often depend on the volunteerism of each center. That, as far as possible, must not be so. To solve this, you are told that over the next year we will approve the research career so that public researchers in Galicia have a common framework to adhere to -- if you wish -- that will guarantee them greater professionalism and greater stability. In the field of innovative Galicia, we also want Galician society to continue to prepare for the digital challenges of the future. We have approved two key strategies in this field: the 2030 Galician Strategy -- with more than 4 billion euros mobilized -- and the 2021-2030 Galician Strategy of Artificial Intelligence -- with 330 million of those we intend to place Galicia strongly in this field --. Towards the future, we will also promote the pole of quantum computing, an innovative technology that will be essential to accelerate the development of strategic sectors, such as medicine, aeronautics, automotive, logistics or telecommunications. Finally, innovating also means being able to modernize our productive fabric, opening it up to processes and markets in which it was not. This means conquering pointed areas, as we did and we're doing with the aerospace or biotechnology, but also renewing all sectors in general. It is undeniable that the primary sector has been substantially modernised in recent years. The virtual length in the world of the sea or the technology embedded in the field, for example, shows this leap. Our goal is to strengthen this process with new digital sales platforms in international markets for the entire food sector. Of course, we will also continue to support the transformation industries that emerged in the primary sector, which are especially important in milk. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also responding to new needs in industry. They know that Junta has been with industry in recent years. And we will continue to do this, to complete the relevant update, with the new Industry 4.0 Agenda, for a smarter and more sustainable industry, which gives the digital and ecological qualitative leap that needs in terms of competitiveness, job creation and environmental responsibility. And I'll tell you some of the most relevant axes: we'll reinforce support for advances in digital transformation, with specific programmes for pemes, trade and industrial tissue; we'll immediately approve a strategic plan for the ICT sector; we'll design a energy pole for the transformation of industry through the introduction of green hydrogen into industry and transport, as well as measures linked to energy storage; we'll strengthen the Energy Efficiency Plan, to facilitate energy saving and reduction in industry; we'll integrate logistics as a fundamental axis of business competitiveness; we'll also help the pemos to measure their environmental impact or we'll boost the circular economy, also in pemes, for the implementation of measures that allow them to be integrated into the new, more sustainable economic model. Ladies and gentlemen, in these last steps we also continue our commitment to a greener economy. We have made the greatest normative effort of the 40 years of autonomy to place ourselves at the vanguard of the fight against climate change and territorial management. And we also moved on to the facts -- which is the most important -- : -- We made a climate pact with the municipalities, and 271, i.e. 80% of the population, have already joined the common target of reducing emissions. -- We increased Sogama's capacity by 81%, and we advanced the "zero-vert" that the European Union demanded by 2035 by 2020. -- While the Government has allowed a drastic drop this summer in the wake of its competition, since the Union we have made compliance with the current regulations that depend on the self-government. -- We are the first government to really fight against feism. We've prioritized rehabilitation of new housing. -- We've had a moratorium on eucalyptus plantation this year. -- We contributed with public resources for more efficient vehicles and appliances. -- We've got nearly 15 million -- 15 million! -- square meters of shellfish areas recovered since 2009. We are aware that the green of Galicia can never be understood without the blue of our sea. And that's why we're going to develop a Greek strategy for the blue economy. -- Galicia was last year the second most renewable energy community generated -- with 75.6% of the total self-consumption --. We can cover 100 percent of our electricity consumption from green technologies. They are enough examples that for us the green economy is not a slogan, ladies and gentlemen, it is a path that we must walk with responsibility so that neither development destroys our environmental potential nor the fight against climate change prevents our progress as a people. [[Applause]] Let me give you an example. There are political parties that say Galicia must stop being an wind power in Spain. Curiously they are the same parties as in the wind farms of their competition -- I mean the parks that manage the state administration -- they're processing all the new facilities without limit. Many times, we are forced to paralyze them because they affect areas of the territory where these wind farms cannot be located. We, on the other hand, are in favour of Galicia maintaining its wind leadership, but doing so with responsibility. That's why now 75% of the territory is shielded from new wind developments, where any type of installation is prohibited. This is the difference between just talking and talking doing. Ladies and gentlemen, with rigour and responsibility the way to the new economy is not back. And, in this sense, as we mentioned earlier, one of the main instruments we have is the Next Generation funds. From Galicia we want to make the most of them, and that is why we have already put forward a candidacy that would allow the total mobilization of up to EUR 20 billion. We've known from the very first moment that this is not just the theme of the Galician Union. And that's why the Greek candidacy is the fruit of a broad partnership with civil society and economic experts, which I would like to thank once again. I want to thank you for all the productive tissue that you've brought up and presented your projects. I would like to thank the Joint Departments who designed public sector projects and are supporting private-initiative projects through the Tractors Project Office. I would like to thank the members of the company Impress Galicia, who is in charge of promoting the textile fibre factory, and the Circular Economic Center, among others. I would like to thank the committee of economic experts who, during the pandemic, transferred their views on this, too, and who continues to do so. And, of course, also to all the people who have made constructive approaches to the Reactivation Commission that we have opened in Parliament. As they mentioned earlier, in terms of funds, a great disorganization is perceived at the national level, and the role reserved for communities -- at the moment -- is a marginal role. By setting an example, the margin of action that we have in industrial policy is zero, and the margin of action that we have in commercial policy is zero. All European funds relating to industry and trade are reserved exclusively for the State administration. Waiting for the state executive to get a little bit more light from Galicia, we're trying to compensate that inconcretion with the establishment of the areas that, at least at this first stage, we consider as priority. According to the central government's own approach -- which limits our prioritization to a maximum of three projects -- we understand that the areas I'm going to comment on could be confirmed in the national strategy. First of all, there is the forest sector. The process is already underway to design the first textile fibre factory from wood throughout Spain. It's a big economic bet -- more than 800 million investment --. It is also from a labour point of view, with more than 1,500 new jobs, and also strategic, since it would allow the wood production cycle to be closed in Galicia. The second priority is the agri-food sector. We're also working on the hand of a sector that brings together 86,000 jobs. The overall number of agri-food sector initiatives exceeds EUR 1 billion and could generate more than 4,000 new jobs, both in agriculture and in relation to the transformation of the fisheries sector. The third priority is automotion. Together with the industry in this sector, which is strategic for Galicia, we have the strong desire that it be reinforced on the new stage. For that, an investment program of more than €1.3 billion has been designed in three years -- an investment program made by the automotive sector in collaboration with the German Government --. We hope that the Central Government will be sensitive to the AutoAncora project, in the area of the Galician automobile industry, because it would not be understood that the only PERT that is known so far remains outside one of the relevant automotive communities in Europe. Fourthly, we prioritize energy projects, because we want Galicia to consolidate itself as an innovative energy pole and position Galicia in the emission of the generation of green hydrogen and energy storage, always trying to link projects to just transition areas, that is, to Bridges and Meirama, to boost their industrialization and employment. We anticipate the impulse of a research centre focused on the development of innovative renewable energies, with a particular impact on the development of marine wind energy and storage technologies. We must take advantage of the opportunities offered by this renewable energy and we will always do so in dialogue with the sea sector and industry through the Maritime Wind Observatory. In this sense, precisely, we have driven the creation of a cluster of offshore wind together with Asturias and Cantabria. With these two autonomous communities, we're also working on a green corridor for the implantation of electroliners that facilitate sustainable mobility in the cantabrian cornice. Finally, we're also working on a joint candidacy in the field of personalized medicine. Galicia has an important potential in areas such as genomic medicine, drug discovery or ecological research. In addition, the Zendal project, centered on a vaccine factory, has an important tractor effect to position Galicia in this area. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the maturity and rigour of the Greek projects deserve the support of the Central Government. It would undoubtedly be the best way to complete transformation of our economy, a path that I -- I insist -- for us is a fact because we know it's a correct one. However, I see the obligation to warn again about the risk and the effects of the economic transition being made abruptly, without giving business time for its adaptation, and without noticing it is left behind or not a rule of economic destruction and employment. I think that's what's happening right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the energy policy that the Central Government is promoting is generating a dismantling of our industrial fabric. The energy price problem threatens 5,000 jobs in electro-intensive companies. Especially urgent is solving the problem of Alcoa. The lack of understanding between the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Industry will lead up to 2,000 jobs between Meirama, The Bridges and the pass factories in Somozas and Viveiro. There are 5,200 families living on wood pending the future of Ence. Changes in back regulations risk about 5,000 jobs in Galicia. The work load commitments in Navantia and the modernisation of the yard are delayed and, in some cases, cancelled. As a result, nearly 17,000 jobs are in danger of extinction. This is not a fair transition, gentlemen. It's all industrial conversion, industrial conversion made to brave by wrong and insensitive decisions. Three factors affect the crisis that is suffering from a part of the Welsh industry: the energy costs, which are out of the way; an accelerated, centralist ecological transition; and an ecology interpreted as radical and unfounded opposition to any project. On energy costs we have seen various types of escapism that have finally ended up in nothing, and that today are jeopardizing the viability of many pemes and self-sufficient people, in addition to turning the most vulnerable consumers into energy poverty. Not only has the problem of large consumer companies not only been tackled -- as it was committed -- but we are in the biggest energy crisis in our history. As for the ecological transition, there's no such thing. What's going on is an abrupt rupture that prevents the progressive adaptation of industrial installations that don't have an easy replacement. The experience of most European States, who are aware of the pace of this transition to the needs of the dependent territories of the industry in question, is not met. The reactivation of the bridge thermal comes only to confirm that we were right. There is no real transition, and Galicia's peculiarities are not taken into account. As is the case in other themes, the so-called federalizing impulse now becomes, at the time of truth, a centralism that neither understands nor hears nor understands. You all know that in some case we're talking about the future of whole comarcas. They don't deserve our disunity, nor do they add up to an echoology interpreted as radical and unfounded opposition to any project. It's often said that not knowing the project, even before any technical and environmental analysis. That's not defending green Galicia, it's exactly the opposite: looking for the disappearance of our industry and our future. [[Applause]] I call for the support of this House's groups against the continued attack on industrial Galicia. In this respect, I would like to make three concrete proposals. In the case of Ferrolterra, they know that we proposed a state pact involving all public administrations. We have asked the Central Government for an interlocutor, who has not appointed for now. I want to make sure that, regardless of this, what is up to the Board will be done within the bounds. For that purpose, he will see to it that the new Chair's delegation in Ferrol is to be established in the near future. I ask you to support the rest of the administrations to meet their share, as well as the Central Government to create a free zone in Ferrol. [[Applause]] I repeat, a free zone in Ferrol, as we've been demanding for years. [[Applause]] In the case of Lugo, we continue to defend a -- already inevitable -- temporary intervention of the Alcoa plant by the Central Government, as well as a solution that prevents the closure of Vestas. I also announce to you that the German Government, through its representation in the Impulse Society, will propose that, if feasible, the textile fibre factory is engaged in the province of Lugo. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Pontevedra, Junta transferred this week to the Advisory Council of the workers' proposal to ensure that the factory land is adhered to the port of Marín and thus ensure the continuity of the factory. I propose that all parties in this House find the conclusion of this body, no matter what. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't deserve the same consideration as those who clearly defend our jobs and our workers and those who speak of industrial Galicia but who, at the same time, fight a lot of industry -- or who complain of lack of industrial employment in one place and expel that job elsewhere --. That's a mistake that the Greeks don't deserve. Political parties that applaud frivolously avoidable closures must bravely assume the catastrophic effects on employment in comarcas or entire sectors. We're not there. On the other hand, it fits, everything is more unfair considering that many of the decisions are made for a supposed green transition than, honestly, in Galicia we cannot admit lessons. Since 1990 Galicia has reduced its emissions by 23.8%, and in Spain the emissions have risen by 8.5%. After this effort, is it logical that the consequences of Spain is increasing its emissions and Galicia by reducing them by more than 23% should be paid to the Greeks? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a consequence of sectarianism which, in our opinion, is leading economic policy in Spain in recent years. He seems to want to focus his life on certain areas and convert the rest into some sort of non-activity or lifeless recreational sites. Only from that point of view is it understood the central government's refusal to transfer the management of our coast so, for example, abandoned buildings with architectural value can have some sustainable use for our country; or so we can decide -- being the autonomous community with more kilometers of Spanish coast -- what can be done on the coast, with, of course, obligation to comply with the basic legislation of the State. I don't believe in ecological despotism -- more or less illustrated -- that says measures from a distance and from misinformation. When mistakes are made as big as those referred to in the protection of the wolf -- easy to avoid by simply listening to our people -- we realize the sovereignty with which some want to rule us. Something similar happens to some occurrences included in the Animal Protection Act. It all conflicts with decisions that penalize those who really support and defend rural life. How can you then talk about fighting empty Spain and then approve these nonsense? For us the absolute priority of rural Galicia are those who live in it, they deserve the greatest protection, unlike this new centralism which practices environmental policies in which it seems that what remains are human beings. We want there to be life in our rurals. [[Applause]] That's precisely why we are developing, at the most of our capabilities, the Law on Recovery of Galician Land -- brought out of consensus -- to reduce the degree of plot of Greek territory and making available to all those farmers and farmers who so demand productive land. The first agroforestry polygons or the high interest in model villages are proof that, in view of dogmas without real support, development is perfectly compatible -- and sometimes essential -- with the protection of the environment. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, we have drawn up a roadmap that does not renounce rural services similar to urban services, as when we achieve that the practice of all of the Greeks has 4G coverage and when we continue to improve the networks; when we allocate more than 1,100 million euros for the Greeks to have a water and purification service in condition; when we manage to make 8 out of 10 of the Greeks live less than fifteen minutes on a high-performance road; or as when we propose solutions to ensure that there are cash boxes in the municipalities without bank offices. We're preaching with the example so that the only Galicia we aspire to is closer to. Ladies and gentlemen, in this respect mobility is key. And that's why we work and we'll keep working to get a vertebrate Galicia and accessible to all. Public transport is the key that guarantees the right of the Greeks to essential services and an effective weapon against rural depopulation. When the pandemic emptied the planes, trains and buses, there were those who saw the perfect excuse to suppress services that still continue today without fully recuperating. In this same context, the Union has found reasons to reinforce its unprecedented bet on public transport. We end up renewing all urban transport by adapting obsolete concessions, designed in the middle of the last century, to the needs of today's Galicia -- hospitals, polygons, companies and universities --. We were also pioneers in giving mobility a social perspective. We are the only administration in Spain that offers free bus to his youth. They don't do it in the rest of the communities, neither does the central government in the transport of their competence nor the municipalities that have urban transport -- I ask them to recapacitize --. We also hampered transport around large cities through the Metropolitan Transport Plan. Since its inception, the Greeks save more than 11 million euros each year on their daily movements. In the coming months, we will launch the "unique area of transport of Galicia", a unique model of inter-urban mobility and with equal rates for bus users of the 300 13 Greek municipalities. We will also facilitate more free discounts and transhipments, with the forecast to bonus nearly 18 million trips in public transport every year. Also, we have the cheapest motorways in Spain, and on them we have been applying discounts for recurrent users for years and for night trips. And since this summer more than 26,000 large families in Galicia can enjoy the free return trip on highways connecting The Coruña with Carballo and Vigo with Baiona. In the same way, we're working so that, in the coming months, the discounts for numerous families work on all public transport lines. You can enjoy additional discounts of between 20% and 50% on your bus trips. Ensuring the right to mobility requires quality services and social tariffs, but also acting on infrastructure to provide the fundamental factor of new mobility, which is intermodality in transport. The Government has started an intense job years ago to equip the main cities of Galicia with intermodal stations that connect more agilely, easy and secure bus and rail services, to facilitate public transport and to achieve maximum performance on the arrival of the AVE. Thanks to that self-sustainment effort, Galicia today is already embedded in the mobility map, and we have new intermodal stations in Santiago and Ourense. The one in Pontevedra we expect to be in the next few months. This same year we will also finish the works of the new Vigo station; we will bid for those of the new intermodal station of the Coruña -- once signed with the council the agreement in the sharing of responsibilities -- and we will complete the Lugo project. We also expect a favourable response from the Government of Spain to take forward the proposal we made for Ferrol. Intermodal stations are complex projects that have the work and investment of the guaranteed Union, but in which the commitments made by the General Administration of the State for the reform of railway terminals must be met, so that they can complete intermodal stations. In a manner consistent with this, we continue to run the lines of communication that will reverse the territory and strengthen our competitiveness as a country. This obliges us to work in a double direction: acting in our powers and exercising an effective claim of the responsibility infrastructures of the General Administration of the State. At Junta, the Greeks, we increased the length of the high-performance network by 214 new kilometres, 70% more than we received in 2009 -- of course, without a single new fee being imposed --. We'll continue. We launched the construction of the first truce of the Nadela-Sarria highway, and before the end of the year we will bid the drafting of the project that must complete its layout. Likewise, we will follow the works of the Via Ártebra, those of the high-capacity highway Tui-A Guard, or the projects of other axes, such as the extension of the highway, the road of the Coast of Death or the high-performance route of the north coast. As far as the Central Government is concerned, you can believe that in the last decade the Union has exercised a loyal and constructive defense of the pending infrastructures in Galicia, irrespective of the political sign of the Government of Spain. The bonuses that have just been put into service in AP-9 are the result of a continuous work of claiming and proposals from this Parliament and the Government, which we present with the same insistence to the former Minister Íñigo de la Serna, who is before Minister José Luís Ábalos. Just as we worked, defended and insisted on the Government of Spain to apply once the AP-9 bonuses committed in October last year -- one year ago -- to alleviate the impact on families and on the competitiveness of our country; and just as we will continue to defend and work for their transfer to the Community according to the unanimity of this House. We will also be looking forward to the arguments that the Central Government raises before the European Commission for the extensions of the concession and also to the possible decision that the Government of Spain adopts before the report of the Galician Competition Council, which considers excessive the compensation system established by the expansion works carried out on this motorway that are paying all the Greeks through the toll. We will also defend that the central government applies to the other state highway, the one that vertebrates the interior of Galicia, to AP-53, similar bonuses to those of AP-9. I mean the Santiago-Lalín motorway. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will remain vigilant so that the entry of the AVE into Galicia, scheduled for December this year, will be done in the right conditions; that is, by guaranteeing the connecting times of the cities to the Meseta. In this sense, it is worrying that Renfe's forecast that he will start serving the current train fleet rather than the AVRIL trains, which have been engaged for years. That assumes that the Greeks will not have full high speed but a reduction in travel times between Galicia and Madrid due to the improvement of the road to the Third Pedrallba-Taboadela. High speed is speeding up across the territory -- at least until the summer of 2022 --. Once again we told the truth, and once again -- and it's too far away -- it doesn't tell us the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the infrastructure of high-speed trains involves routes, chains and rolling stock. [[Applause]] We probably have pathways and chains, but we don't have rolling stock, and that's why we understand the government's refusal to report on rolling stock. With the same tenacity as up to now, we will continue to pursue AVE as a country target, and we will also continue to demand that it continue to modernise the rail network in the community, understanding and extending the benefits of high speed to Lugo, Ferrol and Vigo. The commitment that led us to achieve, in a successful alliance with Asturias and Castile and León, that the northwestern peninsula would join in the plot of the Atlantic corridor will continue to move us to demand an effort to equip our country with a truly competitive railway network. The railway connections of the external port of the Coruña and the terminal of Bouzas in Vigo, together with the high-speed line to Portugal, are priorities that we will pursue without rest; in the same way that we will continue to claim that the essential highways of Galicia are activated: the end of the road connection of Santiago-Lugo -- several years in progress -- ; the advance of the highway between Lugo and Ourrense -- is not even known to the calendar -- ; the circle of Pontevedra -- a work that follows and continues without knowing its end -- ; the connection of Ourrense and Ponferrada -- so many times compromised and so many times uninitiated -- ; the new highway Vigo-O Porriño -- which was compromised by the previous government and eliminated by the current government -- ; or the motorway of the Navy -- so many times compromised and never started --. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Among the powers conferred by the Constitution and the Statute on the Greek Community, there is one that is not formally expressed but which is in the DNA of useful policy, a particularly necessary competition in modern times: we have competence to provide our country with stability. Exercised with responsibility, it gives the fruits that we could see in recent years and that the Greeks referred to in the polls. But we can't fall into misconceptions. Last and present stability does not guarantee eternal stability. It is a commitment that we must renew day by day. I'm proud to be here on behalf of a land that has long been choosing normality and reformism, despite being part of a Spain that hasn't achieved it for many years. The State budget project was resubmitted this year out of date -- nothing happens -- like last year's exercise and after two years with the extended accounts. The distribution of European funds enabled for reconstruction after the pandemic is being done with arbitrary and changing criteria. There is no single governmental opinion on transcendental issues for the country. We always have to wait for partners to resolve the mourning, which lack a common project -- as we also live in Galicia in past experiences --. In practice, ladies and gentlemen -- and I regret to have to say it -- remains alive the spirit of the Tinell Pact, which prevents the agreement between the two great democratic parties in Spain while constantly subjecting the collective future to demands -- when not blackmail -- of minority parties. All of this has been happening for too long in Spain, with regrettable effects for all. When the priority end is not to rule but to add 176 seats at any cost, the result is that there are more sound problems that generate the policy than the solutions it offers. And, unfortunately, we must accept that even the pandemic we have been living since March last year has been able to change this situation in Spain as a whole. Everything I've been reporting goes on with the same or similar intensity. So, after all the living, all the suffering, everything lost in the last few months, it makes sense that people ask themselves questions: What else has to happen for the political class to learn the instability, frivolity and sectarianism that has become part of Spanish public life in recent years? Where to find a counterpoint, a hope? Well, one answer is, and it'll continue to be, in Galicia and in Greek moderation. I would like us to be able to demonstrate this by starting this debate. [[Applause]] There are three keys to moderation, ladies and gentlemen: the moderate politician doesn't start his day thinking about what he can do to fragment society, but what he can bring to union; the second key is the language he uses, because the moderate politician doesn't need to hurt to explain clearly what he wants, what he defends; and the third is to keep in mind that there are no indisputable truths nor magic solutions to people's problems. Moderation is not to act with a tibiasity. It's to be eaten when you play and daring when you need it. Galicia has demonstrated this perseverance when it comes to caring for the worst people who are going through it. The vanguard of the pandemic has left behind some demolition statistics, which concern us and move us because they mean that in our country there are still too many people who suffer. But the path to social inclusion doesn't go through populism. It goes by giving emergency aid to people who are in a limited situation, by reforming the social benefits map -- as we're doing through a new law --, by ensuring employment recovery -- with figures that in Galicia are already better than before the pandemic, as I said --. This, gentlemen, is also moderation, as it is also not selling to the people of paradise who don't exist, because, once this remains undiscovered, it causes great frustration. How can citizens who have been promised by certain parties to end poverty feel? How can those who have heard feel so long ago that energy could go down as long as it lasts a sigh? How can they feel when they get the bill of light and check out stratospheric subs? People need and deserve the truth. And that's why they shouldn't make false promises to you, nor would they hyperbolize problems, because it's of interest at any given time. Let me illustrate this with a matter of great importance, so it's not appropriate to chill. Ladies and gentlemen, to say that there is still a way to achieve full equality, there is no need to hide how much progress we have made. We can and should point out that the problems that women still have today are different and smaller than women who had years ago. We have enough problems, we have enough problems to solve in this area -- especially macho violence, which we must continue to fight, or virtual violence in younger generations -- how to keep talking about those that have already been overcome, how to try to solve them by twisting meaningless language or how to compare them with more serious ones in other parts of the world. Because, no, ladies and gentlemen, most of the problems of women in Afghanistan, fortunately, Greek women don't have them. To make such a comparison is an insult that the Welsh people don't deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, on all the issues that we can comment on in this debate, measures are more useful than noise. I ask you this afternoon to work accordingly. There are more productive terms than maximisms, which are only used to destroy, to separate -- as you are seeing in big-time debates --. It's compatible to defend the right to housing with the right to property and with the fight against occupation. Listen to me, it's compatible. Neither extreme nor other, in Galicia we always found ourselves in centrality, as the Greeks did forty years ago successfully demonstrated. This is our way of being, and so we've always shown it in most matters. Also in one of our most precious goods, which is the language. To love the Greek is possible without leaving the Spanish aside, without closing us to other languages. It's possible for most of our people. Defending that our people learn English to get out of the world does not prevent them from continuing to work so that they can strengthen themselves, especially among the younger ones, or open themselves to all fields, like digitally through one of the most important projects since we have language skills, Project No. There's no need to close Galicia and impose to fight for our speech to reach everywhere, also on the Internet. That contest is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, autonomy is born to respond to a secular demand of our people and also to unite it around their institutions. Both purposes have been met, and this achievement deserves to be underlined in what is one of the most outstanding moments in our parliamentary life. We can all agree that this period marks a great collective success visible in material development, in the recovery of our country pride and in the strengthening of unity. There is, in Galicia's long history, no more fruitful period than these forty years of self-government. For the first time Galicia leads its destiny, and does it well. [[Applause]] As in all the democracies in the world, there were crises, alternations and difficult circumstances that put the institutions to the test. They're avatars of a regime of freedoms. All the formations present in this House have been government and opposition, all the formations present in this House are ruling in Galicia -- in the councils, in the deputies, in the autonomous Parliament, in the Galician Union -- after political change processes that have taken place with full normality. Even electoral processes took place in the midst of anomalous circumstances, in which the Greek people displayed an admirable democratic heel. Beyond concrete governments, these forty years of autonomy shape a plural, stable, participatory and inclusive European political model; a model suitable for different political projects; a model that gives Galicia an important weight in the whole of Spain and in the European concert; a dynamic model, above all, that allows us to adapt to our society and our economy at changing times that require new answers. We live at a new crossroads marked by a global pandemic that we are doubling, and by a recovery in which Galicia has to mark its social and economic priorities. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, a recovery to Galicia, a recovery that is truly fair, that brings our values and prospects closer to the changes that are taking place and that it fully incorporates Galicia into the paths of sensible progress. [[Applause]] For the Galeguist Valentín Paz-Andrade Galicia it was a task. So I also saw the companion of all, Valeriano Martínez: an ever-ending task for which all efforts are necessary, for which never an effort is excessive. The best lines in the history of our land were written by people like him, women and men who have never lost sight of the fact that everything we do is a legacy to the Greeks who will come after us. Valeriano Martínez was a public servant. Valeriano Martínez was a public service. He gave his intelligence to our community until the last day. He left us thinking about this land, about his childhood, about his work and what he was happy about. We felt sorrow for her loss. However, this loss does not prevent the footprint of your delivery from remaining alive. I thank you in this Parliament, who was born with the same dreams as the late Conseilante of Farm and Public Administration. I hope they inspire us in the next steps that Galicia has to take. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u5	Thank you, President. The session is suspended until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u6	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u7	We resumed the meeting with the parliamentary groups. We started with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That's what your spokesman, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u8	Mr. President. Mr. President of the Union, ladies and gentlemen, authorities present today in the House, the Greeks and the Greeks who follow us from their homes through the public media, I want to begin my intervention with a mention to counsellor Valeriano Martínez and, once again, transfer our condolences to relatives, friends, and the Government of Galicia, as well as to the entire People's Party of Galicia. We recognize your public service trajectory. [[Applause]] And just as I've transferred to the President of the Government of Galicia, to the spokesman of the parliamentary group and also to his family, the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group regrets this complex situation, this unexpected death. I also want my first words from this gallery to serve as a reminder of the victims of the pandemic now that with the vaccination strategy we are overcoming the most complex of the health crisis and listening to the level of incidence of the cod. Even so, I want to make a recognition to the whole of Greek citizenship, which has faced this pandemic with responsibility and, of course, with a vocation of overcoming. I approach the debate of the state of Autonomy with a clear commitment to Galicia, because Galicia is our cause, because serving the Greeks and the Greeks is our reason and our passion. Our north is the quest for the well-being of Welsh citizenship, now in the present, as well as the opening of a horizon of opportunities for the future. And that's why I'm dealing with this debate from reflexive and conscious Welshism -- as Ramón Piñeiro would say -- that inspires us to understand what's going on in Galicia and also to understand what's not happening and to make proposals to transform reality for the better. Ladies and gentlemen, if 2020 was the year of the arrival of the shed, 2021 is the year of vaccination. Vaccination is the great news, the great progress of the year, the great event, because it allows you to change the stage and approach a new time towards the poscovid world. So I also want to congratulate the Greeks and the Greeks on the next exit of the health emergency, which is nothing other than the reflection of the total success of the Spanish vaccination strategy marked alongside the European Union. The vaccines work, the vaccines are the solution, and Spain leads the rate of vaccination between the major European countries and between the major countries of the world. In Spain, 80 percent of the entire guideline is reached and all communities achieve very important levels of vaccination that allow us all to enter a post-scovid era. That's why the Spanish vaccination strategy was a common strategy at European level, a solidarity strategy between all Spanish communities and a shared strategy that involved all levels of state, leaving aside the political protagonists of certain representatives. Today, Mr. Feijóo, President of the Board, announces that Galicia will leave the health emergency, but he also forgets to acknowledge its errors in relation to the vaccination strategy, because the vaccination strategy has turned us into a safer country against the coward, but you, Mr. Feijóo, a year ago, said that the Government of Spain's vaccination strategy was a grandloquent announcement and that there would be no vaccination until the second quarter of this year, a moment when more than 50 % of the citizenship of Galicia was already vaccinated. Well, we've been vaccinating since the last days of last year, just after you denied the vaccine's arrival. And now, after a year in which you also sought conflict with the vaccination strategy, criticizing the failure of vaccines, even involving declarations of the style of the link between vaccination and the Catalan elections, and that even this summer the advisor himself also reported that there were no vaccines, which were taken from Galicia -- but then I had to rectify -- we recognize that the vaccination strategy was a success and that health professionals in Galicia also worked hard to put all those vaccines in place and allow us to enter a new stage. You, Mr. Feijóo, seem to be worth any kind of question to oppose the Government of Madrid. Today we can't find the president of the board focused on responding to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, nor did we see him moderate in reflecting on the Galicia we have and how to improve Galicia in which we live. We found ourselves a President of the Union marking a strategy similar to that of Mr. Casado, a strategy of confrontation in which Feijóo was more married bis than the President of the Council of Galicia; a strategy of conflict which does not lead to nowhere, simply on a political escalation that the right, alongside the right, wants to frame also from the autonomous governments to try to bring out a legitimately constituted government of Spain. [[Applause]] I mean, Mr. Feijóo, that you handled the pandemic at the service of your party, because you're more concerned about being a leader opponent than being President of Galicia, and that's why you put Galicia to the service of PP's interests instead of putting your party at the service of Galicia's interests. Today, Mr. Feijóo, your speech hasn't been up to what Galicia needs, because you move us a Galician who lives in a happy arcade where one forgets the problems of so many citizens who don't reach the end of the month, of so many citizens who don't find employment, of so many Greeks and Greeks who see that in rural areas they have less public services, who close banking premises, of so many Greeks and Greeks who don't get an appointment in primary care as urgently as possible, of so many Welsh people who have industrial problems and economic problems. You, Mr. Feijóo, today did not speak to the Greeks and to the Greeks, nor gave them an answer or a country project. You, Mr. Feijóo, today preferred to speak to the People's Party; you preferred to speak to a People's Party that is in a conflict strategy to achieve the Government of Spain. [[Applause]] And that's where they go wrong, it's wrong for the People's Party, because they won't do any favors to the Greeks or the Greeks. It's time to take a look and understand the political, economic and social moment we're living in. We live at a time when we have to enter a new poscovid era that is fundamental to the whole country. That's why we have to be up to it, because we know that the old recipes of the People's Party always don't work, that we have a government arrested in time, in a sort of marmot's day on which the cuts happen in the flow of well-being and emptiness in economic areas. Yes, every day we have a great announcement that serves for a praise holder for Mr. Feijóo, but in reality the things of so many families and so many Greeks and Greeks don't improve. In fact, so many aspects of health, in schools, show the difficulties in the country. And I'm going to list some of the realities that the Greeks and the Greeks know and that you deny. If we look at public health, over these months and this summer, it is evident that in Galicia there are structural waiting lists in primary care: in some areas of health this summer, up to 26 days waiting to get an appointment with the doctor or head doctor; that there is saturation in primary care; that until the Official College of Doctors in Pontevedra has filed a complaint about the saturation level -- you use telephone care to hide waiting lists; that they opt for non-presence as a mechanism for almost everything, avoiding recognizing the problems for those who have no response; that the councillor himself recognized that there is now 18 more days to enter the surgery, 8 days more for specialists and that they need two years to return to the precarious state of health in Galicia, because they lack personal care, because they do not cover low or vacations, because they disappear from pediatrics and because each summer they close 600 hospital beds. And that is well known by the Greeks and the Greeks, who are in every health area of our country mobilizing to claim first public health. The per capita health budget in Galicia before the arrival of the covid was 1,474 euros --the Board of Auditors -- under seven similar communities in terms of Galicia, under Euskadi, Asturias, Navarra, Extremadura, Aragon, Cantabria and Castile-Leon. In Asturias, the investment in health care is 250 euros more per capita, and the rate of temporality of health professionals in Galicia is 44 % in specialized care and 28 % in primary care. You, Mr. Feijóo, speak much of health, but your speech does not correspond to reality, and every time you deny the difficulties in Galicia, you are denying the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And the Greeks and the Greeks deserve a president to tell them the truth, because when we ask for an appointment, when we enter the Sergas page to ask for an appointment on each of the Galician whispers, you don't get an appointment in primary care in 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 14 days, and you're fooling those galleys and you're missing them, because they have to wait to get an appointment from the chief doctor for the management failure you've made and for the lack of investment over twelve years. [[Applause]] But if, of course, public health has problems, we also have to talk about education, where you start school by firing hundreds of reinforcement teachers, where you refuse to go back to a system of free textbooks that worked well, where you refuse to establish first free tuitions at the university, which would be a great measure, and where, by the way, since you are president of the Galician Union, the student in degrees and university masters has fallen to Galicia at 20 % since 2009. Spain fell by 6%. And none of the Greek universities still recovered funding levels prior to 2009. It seems good to us, Mr Feijóo, that measures are being taken and, of course, we support the announcement that you made today to make free children's schools, as the Socialist Party of Galicia proposed in the electoral programme and as I proposed in the electoral debate and to what you said no. [[Applause]] When you rectify, you start right. But if we are concerned about public services in health care and education, we are also concerned about social policy, because in Galicia spending in health care, education and social services accounted for 66% of the board budget in 2009, according to the latest study by the State Association of Social Services Managers and Managers. In 2009, 66%; in 2020, the year of the pandemic, that expenditure represented 62.5%; 3.9 percentage points less social sensitivity, of social component in its understanding of the country. In Asturias, the trend was just the opposite. In 2009, it represented 63% and in 2020 it represented three more points. And, therefore, we have to say that things can be done differently and Galicia is in line for professionals and social services. In Galicia there's a social service professional for every 2,500 people. In Spain there's one for every 1,875. Galicia is lined up in communities in investment per dependent person and therefore there are cuts against which we can't stop doing things. The Foesa report recently pointed out that in Galicia there are 320,000 people in severe poverty, and data from the Galego Institute of Statistics show that more than half a million Greeks do not reach easily by the end of the month. In Galicia there are only 1.2 residential public funding squares for every 100 people; in Spain it is 2.69, twice. In Galicia, coverage of home support services is 3.3 out of 100 people over 65 years of age. The state average is 4.9, far above the Galician. But if we see teleassistation, this is about 2.3% of the 65-year-olds; in Spain, about 10%, four times more. That is the lack of social policies that we see in so many areas, for example, also for people with disabilities, the most vulnerable sectors. In Galicia, there are 1.2 residential squares per 100 people with disabilities; the state average is higher, is 1.6. In Galicia, we can see in many questions how data in social services are behind, and it can't be. In Galicia, there are 6.3 shelters for women victims of gender-based violence with an order of protection; the state average is 9.5. Your commitment to equality requires an update and decisions. [[Applause]] And, of course, Mr Feijóo, I find it regrettable that in your speech today on the state of autonomy you focus on pointing out that, in the matter of equality and fighting against violence, we are better than many decades ago, or that the women of Greece are better than the women of Afghanistan. It's a failure to respect reality and it shows that you don't compromise or take the necessary measures. [[Applause]] You, Mr. President, have just announced once again a new model of residence for our seniors, and we believe it's a fundamental thing. But it can't just be a new headline, a new stroke of cosmetic effect with which to make up the failures -- failings shown in so many circumstances -- The Board of Auditors had already said so, that there was neither monitoring nor sufficient inspection services in the residences; therefore, the situation of weakness in the pandemic was greater. And that's why, Mr. Feijóo, we ask you to work and pull out not only a new residence model -- of course, we will be willing to contribute so that you can do your best -- but also to look for non-residential care models for our elders. Because the protection of the elderly in a Galician with so many older people is a matter of country, a matter of everyone and of all, and we have to give dignity to those elderly Greeks and Greeks who need the support of the public and well-being. You, Mr. Feijóo, pose different visions of reality that do not correspond to our country, because in the economic issue you have been twelve years in front of the Council of Galicia and its only strategy is to find someone to blame for the industrial desert, the failure to increase the occupied population and the difficulties of the economy in which you are converting Galicia. If we see the economic evolution of our country, we can conclude that there are forward issues and other issues that have more difficulty. But if we have to analyze what is the economic policy of the Union, to what extent the Council of Galicia is contributing to what is right, the blank leaflet is the answer. There is no economic policy, no economic strategy, no economic model for Galicia. You show today an unbalanced speech of unusual measures that they don't know where they want to move, and the problem of lack of modeling of strategy and compromise of measures is that the effects end up suffering from the Greeks and the Greeks. You turn Galicia into an industrial disaster warehouse. They put together reference companies like the old Pescanova, like Caramelo, Alfajeme, Pórtico... There are still ongoing problems in companies like ENCE, Ferroatlántica, Alcoa, Barreras, Vestas, in the Navy they shine... Of course! [[Murmurs.]] I know that in the People's Party, when they talk about their responsibilities, they get nervous, because there's no government here, there's just an excuse to look for those responsible in Spain or in the municipalities of Galicia, but there's no management or economic or industrial matter. [[Applause]] If we see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, their conservative strategy in the face of this crisis, we conclude that impulse, strategy, objectives and measures fail. Today we are listening carefully to a President of the Council of Galicia dedicated to confronting the Government of Spain, trying to avoid being aware that he has all the competences in economic and industrial matters in accordance with the country's statutory rules and that he is responsible for what is done. But when you speak, Mr. Feijóo, you make a strange mix between escapism, between the conflict with the Government of Spain and the common places, without taking action. A president of Galicia must have a response and commitment to the industrial problems of our country. A president of Galicia can't be escaping his responsibilities by blaming others, as if no one was here in front of fear. And when there are so many problems in the country, it is necessary to take action. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Today the Government of the Union lacks vision, ambition and commitment. And it's the Vaccination Strategy that allows Galicia to advance and enter a new phase. But we see in many areas these eyves: if we talk about youth, you have lacked youth policies, also in terms of housing or employment generation -- in many areas. Their public housing policies for youth, for example, are a black hole, just ridiculous. But if the central government proposes a plan to help young people to get into a rented home, you put the cry in the sky, it doesn't support it, because it's in the People's Party strategy, instead of being in the strategy of helping young people in Greece in times of complications. [[Applause]] At a time when Spain is going to have billions of euros to build a new future, at a time when Galicia arrived last year over 700 million extraordinary to budgets by the Fund and in which more than 1,100 million are coming this year, we can turn the recovery of the crisis into an opportunity for all, especially for young people and girls. Because this is also the European funds, so that the future of our youth can be built in Galicia with quality employment and housing access policies. Mr. Feijóo, take advantage of the opportunity of the Next Generation funds and don't make the next generation of Welsh and Welsh have to be at the bottom. And you have to admit that your management of European funds is clearly improved. Because, look, in Galicia today, 4 out of every 10 euros that are budgeted from European funds are left unimplemented, and only half of the budget is paid in exercise. The Government of Galicia, despite all the opacity in so many aspects of these issues, has the dubious honour of being the first autonomous government that had to return funds from the common agricultural policy, farmers' funds and Greek gain; 55 million euros for not being able to execute them in time by 2015. That's why you guys also lack good management. [[Applause]] But if we see the institutional quality of the country, for example, according to the prestigious index on the quality of subnational governments financed by the Commission and developed by the Gothenburg Government Quality Institute, we will see Galicia suspending the three key indicators: quality of services, impartiality and perception of corruption. We get position 14 of the 17 communities. It is, at least, curious that in 2010 we had occupied number two with the best perception of the quality of services, impartiality and public integrity and the absence of corruption, only under the Basque Country, and now we're in line. Mr Feijóo, we are in a time of reactivation, and we think, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that it is time to set up a government and stop being in the conflict strategy, which is the time to seek answers to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Throughout this pandemic, you used to fight and fight against the Government of Spain in every key, in every dimension. At the worst moments of the pandemic, at the moments of the different waves, at the time of getting the material, you've always used all the tools of the Union to seek conflict and tension. And he did so, in addition, using the media channel, this Galician Television, which today transmits this plenary session of the Galician Parliament and which should be a permanent instrument of impartiality, of representation of opinion. [[Applause]] And, of course, the Greeks and the Greeks who follow us on the TVG could follow all the full-times that are developed in this Chamber, because it would be a great public service. [[Murmurs.]] But you, Mr. Feijóo, want to convert public television from Galician to Feijóo television, to Telefeijó. [[Applause]] And we have to tell you, Mr Feijóo, that this is neither institutional quality nor democratic progress, and that, of course, we continue to support the workers of the public channel that each Friday marks the black color that you put into the public media. [[Applause]] A few days ago, Mr. Feijóo -- a short time ago -- he read an article from an analyst who generally speaks reasonably well of you and who said that while Fraga created Galicia he thought, you only administered what they left, but that he didn't create anything; that when he left, his legacy would be empty. Now, Mr. Feijóo, it is time to create a Galician poscovid, of vanguard, of entrepreneurship, with ideas, a Galician that can be competitive and that can give the Greeks and the Greeks future. We need a moment to make the best project for Galicia of the future, for people who think an alternative Galicia to that which we have and not only for account managers without involvement in politics or the construction of a new economic model. It's time to generate ideas with commitment, it's time for references with ideas and ideology. And you, Mr. Feijóo, have ideology, you have the conservative ideology of the People's Party, but you lack proposals and ideas to get Galicia forward after the deepest crisis. He has an ideology that leads him to think that Galicia is built from the powerful, from the large companies, from the macro-projects that most of the time never come, which is created through the great news in the media, but without building a new phase and a new stage. Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, is built with the Greeks and the Galicians, with the great and the small, with the people of the country. And to get out of this crisis there are two great models, there are two great ways to make a way out of this crisis, and you're wrong. When this morning, Mr. Feijóo, he referred to the People's Party's Government in times of the great recession, his subconscious showed the competition and the inability on the right to deal with the major economic crises. Because, in the face of the great recession, the policies of cuts and austerity that conservatives in Europe and here in Spain applied, also with their satisfaction, they showed how they could put the country and economic activity into a slower lethargy, in a more complex difficulty to get out, with greater slowdown in the generation of employment. But now this crisis has changed the paradigm and you apply and manage funds that arrive in Galicia without understanding what an expanding economic policy implies, without having a commitment to the country to use public funds to scale up productive capacity, to fight social inequality, to generate employment. The Government of Galician Union was overwhelmed by so many public funds that they could not manage, that they didn't know what to devote to in times of pandemic. And that's why the progressive approaches on the left to crises like this allow for a different exit. And that is why there has been a new paradigm in Europe that has allowed expansional policies, Keynesian policies that arrive across Europe and that also arrive in Galicia through the budgets of the Union. Galicia -- as I said -- received 735 million euros extra by 2020 and more than 1,100 million euros extra by 2021. But the People's Party, the conservative government of Galicia, can't manage them, because that capacity for public spending, at the bottom, is an amendment to all of what you think, what you've done and what you would now be able to do. When you pose as a major measure of economic policy to lower taxes -- they announced yesterday, they said today -- no concrete thing in which, neither does it measure the effects on progressiveity, nor does it have any implications for public buildings. Because you have money from the Union; the Government of the United States has money available because there is a government in Spain that makes expanding policies and puts money in the hands of a Government of the United States to protect public health, to protect public education and to make social policies. [[Applause]] Your philosophy of this crisis is dangerous because you would continue to apply the policies of cuts, the policies of making the public smaller, the policies of inequality, and the policies without public resources to be able to finance what is most necessary. And if something should have learned in this economic, social and health crisis is that in times of greater conflict and greater problems, the public must defend it above all. We have to start ruling thinking about strengthening public services, defending the welfare state, allowing the struggle against social inequality. And that has to be done with the public funds that progressive governments allow them to exist and that you don't want or do because you have them. [[Applause]] Mr Feijóo, reactivation has to go alongside three major issues: we need a reactivation that strengthens public services, firstly, and more public health, more public education and more social policies. It's the best protective shield to protect the most vulnerable Greeks and the Greeks, so that from a crisis as profound as this one we wouldn't go out with a society with a huge breakdown of inequality and with greater exclusion. Secondly, we have to bet on the modernization of the Greek economy; that's where I find a government that is absent and without a model. We have to face the double transition, the ecological transition and the digital transition. And we must also contribute and bet on a model of R+D+i that allows a more vanguard economy, technologically more advanced, more competitive, with more productivity. And if the strengthening of public services is a fundamental axis, if the modernisation of the economy is a second fundamental axis, employment generation is the key issue in measuring the effects of reactivation. And the Greek economy has an intrinsic difficulty in generating jobs. In terms of busy population, you know that since the busy population arrived, it has fallen to Galicia in an important way and that in Galicia there are fewer and fewer workers in the country as a whole. You can sweeten the data as you like, but any economic student knows that when you give all that biased, partial data, to confuse, they don't have any veracity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in Galicia there is less occupied population. While Spain grew up, there are fewer here. The People's Party talks a lot about generating jobs, but Mr. Feijóo is the best example of the failure of the employment generation in Galicia. We have to boost that reactivation with these three areas, while we have a different speech, because we have a project different from that on the right in Galicia, because we are on the left, with progressive approaches, to get the country out of the crisis with expanding policies. Of course, we hold our hand again. And you will decide again whether you want to build the future with country agreements or whether you want to remain anchored on a roller of the unused People's Party that gives no solutions. We offer to hold hands to strengthen public services, to modernize the economy and to take advantage of the next generation funds in those projects that are the most important and the most dynamizing for the Greek economy and, no doubt, to generate jobs, quality employment. Because, moreover, we must always warn that, behind employment data, there is a growth, not only of temporality, but of part-time contracts that make the decline in employment in Galicia even more evident if we measure it in number of hours employed in our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we can't miss the transition train and we have to fight inequality. You and Galicia had a responsible opposition throughout the pandemic, an opposition that never questioned the measures taken by the Government to curb the expansion of the virus. We stood by you even at a time when there were errors like the strategy of saving Christmas. But I know that managing the pandemic from the Government of Galicia -- like from any other government -- was nothing simple and that it was up to you to exercise responsibility in which, of course, we, having different positions, also want to agree on your efforts. You, over the course of this time, have not understood collaboration, have always thought of confrontation, of confrontation with the Government of Spain, of confrontation with the opposition, of confrontation with the municipalities of Galicia, and we believe it to be a mistake. The key is that we belong to Galicia and not to Galicia belongs to each one, to a sector or to a band, as Lorenzo Varela wrote. But sadly you didn't understand it. [[Applause]] Of course we propose questions. We propose questions to improve Galicia, and that's our subject, and that's our reference. We can promote a reactivation that protects public health, which allows the competition to take new squares in public health, but when we put it before the People's Party, I didn't want and I couldn't make the right contracts. We can give stability to all health personnel who have had possible contracts of more than 300 days accumulated in the last two years, but the PP said no. We can adopt a plan against poverty and inequality, but the PP said no. We can increase staff in social services, but the PP said no. We could keep this course the reinforcement teacher hired the previous course, but the PP said no. We can bet on equality with more CIM, with the Greek Conciliation Plan and co-responsibility so that women don't go beyond this crisis, but the PP says no. A table for the reindustrialization of Galicia in comarcas like Ferrolterra, like The Navy, is needed for the Union to meet industrial policy, which is its task, but the People's Party says no. They prefer to advertise big headlines and not make industrial politics. We can raise investment in R & D+i to 1.5% of GDP, but the strategy of the PP is different. We can hire 2,000 new researchers and researchers in this legislation -- there are funds -- but the People's Party doesn't want to. We want to raise investment in culture to 1% of the budgets of the Union, but the PP says no. The People's Party says no to the ideas that makes a country with more and stronger social services, with a reactivation with a protective shield. Of our 300 proposals in the Reactivation Commission, the PP accepted 15% and rejected 85 %. That is unilaterality, lack of sight, lack of vocation for dialogue and encounter. We can hold our hand continuously and we will continue to hear it, because we know that in the future there will be more or less difficulties and because Galicia needs everyone and everyone. We want to work for that better Galicia, and we're disappointed because the Conservative Government of Galicia doesn't understand that joint co-governance is to accept proposals for strengthening public services, employment generation, ecological transition and so many aspects. Let me also tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that you have forgotten throughout this entire time of the Councils of Galicia, that the more money you received from the Government of the State you passed powers to the councils and did not give them funding. You have constantly attacked the Greek municipalism by cutting funds and cutting commitments. And Galicia from day to day knows that the municipalities of our country have been working from the very first moment on in the face of the crisis and looking for the best reactivation across the country. [[Applause]] Of course, there are proposals that can make a better Galicia, and in order to generate jobs, there must also be discrimination and impulses from public areas so that those sectors that may be most affected by the crisis, such as long-term unemployed people, such as women or young people, can have employment plans to encourage employment generation in these important collectives. So we're also thinking about it in the Reactivation Commission, proposing 13 million euros to generate this year that ends 3,000 jobs for young people and girls in Galicia; a generation so worried, a youth who doesn't know what it's going to be from their future. But the more money there is in the Union, the more absent and less empathetic we have in the Union in so many areas where we need to govern, and that's why we ask him for that commitment to a new stage in public policy. Also in environmental matters, because we ask for it in the social sphere, in the economic field, but also in the environment there is a need for momentum, after the lack of environmental commitment by the conservative governments of Galicia. We need to sign a great Greenish pact with all economic and social agents to be able to drive on many issues that are pending, such as the Declaration of Climate Emergency which is already underway in many other places, to bet on real eco-xism, and not on that radical eco-xism that you refer to to in order to express your commitment to combat climate change, to look after biodiversity and to look after sustainability. We need to completely regenerate rivers and rivers, but its only policy on water is the rising cover of the receipt, which aims through the new Water Cycle Law, which does not deal with the municipalities and the deputies of Galicia. We have to bet on renewable energies, but we have to do it with balance and sense of country. [[Applause]] It's all about impulse to renewable energies, all about backup, but, no doubt, seeking balance with the landscape, with the local communities, with the territory, with the people, and that those performances can also stand in Galicia in the face of the challenges of the future. And we also have to bet on a circular economy, because the average recycling in Galicia does not reach 20%, although the European target for this year was 50%. And you continue to bet on incineration, against what new fashions and new European directives are. It is necessary to deepen the process of taking care of our natural environment, through the Nature Network, through the care of threatened species and flora; ultimately, seeking important measures for the native forest and also to care for natural parks. And we have to do it with balance to defend also a rural environment to which you have given your back all these years. You were saying that the past legislation was going to be the legislation of the countryside. Small rural legislation!, closing financial services, cutting into public health in rural areas or cutting into public education. That's your balance. And when we take away the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks who live in the countryside and reduce the equality of opportunity for each of the Greeks regardless of where they are born, we have a worse Galicia. And that's why we also need a policy of territorial vertebration, a policy that drives Galicia the most dynamic, the most vanguard, the urban Galicia, the Atlantic Galicia, but at the same time also a Galicia that supports the rural environment, which supports Galicia the interior, Galicia the small municipalities, where you have shown a failure of meridian engagement. And therefore, in the face of Galician challenges, we have to give great answers. It is also necessary, Mr. Feijóo, that as the worst moments of the crisis pass, we build the best institutions to serve the Greeks and the Greeks. And that we can't do either from the positions of a conservative right who didn't take on new competences in twelve years' rule of Galician Union, nor from positions that don't want to take on the status progress and the commitment of the state of autonomy. The Socialist Party of Galicia was a fundamental party to the status model we have since 1981; a statistical model in which the most extremist positions were not. And moderation is also to support the best policy, the best policy that Members and Members have done 40 years ago alongside the citizenship that has manifested itself against the "Statute of the Drought". So because we believe in plural Spain, in a federal model, in an autonomous model with different levels of government and with a multilevel governance structure, we also believe that, throughout this legislation, when we overcome the worst moments of the pandemic, we will have to build and adapt the Galician Statute to new times, to shield the rights and freedoms of citizenship, to put the Statute to the service of people and to incorporate a letter of Greek citizenship that is the best guarantee to have equal rights in health, education and public services throughout the territory. [[Applause]] They have already made many communities, and times also matter in politics, we know it well in Galicia, because when the constitutional model of 1978 was built, the fact that Galicia has already approved a statute of the Republic's stage allowed us also constitutionally to note our deeds as historical nationality. And that's why, because times matter, so we also have to put the task of achieving the best governance structure thinking about the Greeks and the Greeks. When we want to adapt and update the Galician Autonomy Statute, we want to do it to protect the most vulnerable Greeks and the Greeks, to incorporate doses of equality and feminism in the construction of a new Galician, to give them citizenship rights in new times, such as the right to a dignified old age and also to a worthy death, in the face of what the Conservatives want to do. I, Mr. Feijóo, know that you tried to rule as best as possible along this pandemic, and there are moments when, of course, no one would like to be ruling. So, I know that in the face of all these difficulties, we have to build Galicia better. Of what you've told us this morning, Mr. Feijóo, there are things we see well. We see well, Mr. Feijóo, that you now announce that all the schools in Galicia, especially those that have a public component, become 100% free and that all children and children can access them. We think it's a move in the right direction. We also believe, Mr Feijóo, that we need to look for a model of self-financing where the issues of ageing and dispersal have a differential element in order to be able to weigh the cost of providing public services. There we will also be working to ensure that Galicia has the best funding, and of course we believe that the best structure to set up plural Spain that we want is a structure of a multilateral Spain in which the different communities can speak and in which we are autonomous historical communities, such as Galicia, Basque Country and Catalonia, we always maintain a maximum level of competence. That's why we're also going to work. We do not like, Mr Feijóo, any model of independence in any kind of approach within the structure of the state in which we live. We believe that these kind of alliances bring nothing good for Galicia, and they're neither in the background nor in the shape. But if we think that working in a cross-sectional way to update the Statute is a useful mechanism in which we have to build Galicia for the future. And I want to ask the House groups, the People's Party, the majority group, also the Galician Nationalist Block, who are also working to update the Statute of Self-Government, to have the best statutory framework to defend the Greeks and the Greeks in the poscovid era, and to do it with a cross-sectional character in which we can all be comfortable and in which what unites us can be above what differentiates us. And, of course, Mr Feijóo, he will also remain loyal to any evolution of the pandemic and health measures. From what you told us this morning, Mr. Feijóo, there are issues that concern us, because of course we share your analysis of the seriousness of the demographic situation, but that at this point in the film someone believes that the law of demographic impulse of the Government of Galicia is worth something to be living in the worlds of Yupi. There is no Greek or Greek that gives any strength, no viability, no credibility to a law that is a letter to the Magi, which implies nothing concrete or gives no solution. [[Applause]] If we want to generate a better Galicia, make the best economic policy, create jobs and support public services, because where there is employment, public services and accessible housing, there people are willing to live and be able to live together and re-enter our country demographically. We also share a clearly European position; a European position but from progress, from the left. We believe in Europe, in Europe's best answer, that Europe is facing this crisis. But we cannot, of course, fall into that speech that you put forward with total cynicism when you put you in front of the Government of Spain who had changed the health minister in the pandemic when you changed your health adviser to make him president of the Port Authority of Vigo. They are obvious inconsistencies that can only be said by looking in the mirror. [[Applause]] On that line, Mr. Feijóo, there is a failed economic model after its management. You make that speech of: more investment, less debt, less taxes; a wrong approach that doesn't respond to the needs of the country, nor the big keys. When you did the latest property tax reform, you showed that you have as allies Galicia's high incomes and that you are an ally of our country's millionaires, and we want a progressive tax system that relapses from the most acquitted people in order to be able to strengthen what we like: public health, public education and public services. [[Applause]] It's okay, Mr. Feijóo, that you announce these tax discharges, that you say all these kinds of questions. In the end, the system is as follows: Mr Feijóo comes to the Galician Parliament and announces that he invites, but who pays is the central government. You announce a lot of good things, but whoever sets money is the tax system of the state, the background and the planning that the Government of Spain has. And it's less bad there was a progressive government along this pandemic! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Too bad, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Because with the People's Party government in Spain, the system of inequality that would generate would have terrible implications for our country. They did it when they ruled the big recession. Mr. Rajoy has already done it. Do you remember all the great referents of the People's Party? Well, the economic miracle was called Rat, and look where the economic miracle ended. And after Rat's economic miracle, the time has come for all these geniuses that have had in economic politics and that have led the country to slow down and a terrible situation. [[Applause]] So forget to give big lessons in economics, because they don't understand the economy, they don't have any ideas to do it. I will, of course, maintain all my work and my commitment to Galicia. When you want to make a new industrial policy for Galicia, you'll keep us next to you. But you don't make a single proposal, you don't give a single proposal. He announces matters that are not up to him so he doesn't have to say what he's going to do in what he's got skills. And of course you can get things, of course you have to work and there's progress. And when we have to complain to Galicia, we'll be there; we'll be... yes, PP gentlemen, because reality rejects all the cynicism of the People's Party constantly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to give you an example, because you're... yes, I can give you several examples. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I can give you an example called AP-9, which can explain how it was extended by twenty-five more years, how it was privatized by the PP's friends, how the funds were given and how they never lowered the rates every year. And I can explain how others, when the progressive government arrived in Spain, we joined the minister, and we put forward a strategy that allows a historical downturn in AP-9's rates. [[Applause]] I can also remind you, Mr Tellado, that there was a minister of defence who had Ferrol's frigates hidden in the drawer for pure interest with companies in the sector. It's called PP, it's called PP! [[Applause]] Because, if you want to talk about more issues, we can also talk about AVE in Galicia, when you were a minister of a German lady, and when for three years the investments of AVE were frozen without actions or commitments. A progressive government had to arrive in Spain so that the arrival of AVE would not be delayed by a second because of the progressive government, after three years in the PP drawer. Of course, Mr. Feijóo, who we already know all that needs for these issues: they need paths, they need chains and they need rolling material. But with you, no ways, no chains, no rolling stock. That's the difference between the People's Party. [[Applause]] They talk too much, but of course, a progressive government had to arrive in Spain to raise pensions again, to make social policy, to protect the most disadvantaged people and to recover Meirás for the public, after the right-wing conference with the Franco family for so many years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u10	So, Mr. Feijóo, as you like to talk about Spain, we also talk about what the Government of Spain does. By the way, you see in the state's general budgets how investment in Galicia has increased by 30% to meet Galicia's infrastructures. Take note also of what is here today. [[Applause]] But this was because you pulled it out, but what you have to talk about is what you do; what others do already touches others. You rule Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] You have an absolute majority that fills us with applause and so on. Government in Galicia, you get to work for the Greeks and for the Greeks, which manages 12,000 euros and you don't know what they do. [[Murmurs.]] Get the money out of the mattress...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u12	...make good efficiency, protect people, and stop being on that knee, because, despite having voted an opposition that has nothing to do with the disloyalty of Mr. Casado and the PP in the Government of Spain... No, they don't recognize him, which is the worst. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't look in the mirror, it's the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u13	Finish. Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u14	That's the problem... Anyway, we keep holding our hand to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u16	...building a better Galicia from the left front...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u18	...to the back of the PP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u20	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u21	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of your spokesman, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u22	Good afternoon to all and to all and, very especially, to the Greek citizenship that is following us through public media or social media. I wanted my first words to be of remembrance, of reiterating the transfer of our condolences to the family of the councilman of Fairy, Valeriano Martínez, to all his friends and also to the People's Party. Beyond our differences, he was a public servant and we'll miss him in this Chamber. Mr. Feijóo, this is the first debate in the nation's state since the pandemic marked one before and after our lives. Everything, from the largest to the smallest, was strangled by the virus. The cowardly evidenced our weakness and vulnerability, and we mustn't forget it, in a time that invites us to act from humility and put long lights to think about the future. It was months of suffering, distress, loss in staff and collective, but it was also months when citizenship proved its courage, generosity and ability to get ahead in the toughest times. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, it is painful that, once again, he comes to this House to assume figures of deaths in the pandemic; it is terribly painful. And it's also an ally shame that he uses this debate to attribute himself a merit which he does not deserve. [[Applause]] Do you know who deserves all the credit, Mr. Feijóo?: the Greeks and the Greeks, including the youth, who tried to blame to cover up their mistakes. [[Applause]] The merit is for the working people, for the thousands of people who have been on foot without giving up; many of them underprivileged women. The merit is that of the professionals of public health, with a total delivery, even risking their health to take care of our own. The credit is for the nursing staff and all the support staff, which made it possible for massive vaccination and that overcome the chaos of their improvisation. The credit is for the hospitality, culture and so many others, who took over the closure of their livelihood, while waiting for late and insufficient help. Really, how can you come here to lie saying that you were the first to give help when the German Government was the last? [[Applause]] The merit is from the educational staff, who, without just means alone, managed to get ahead of the school course and the training of our children. The credit is for families, who have made juggling to reconcile -- in particular, women -- often without any alternative than having one eye on the computer and another on children and children. The merit is, ultimately, of the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks, who raised their shoulder to get out of the way, even though they endured the most painful personal situations. I would never hear myself say it was easy to manage a pandemic, never. And that's why I can't ignore him here hanging medals that don't correspond to him. Because we all bear in mind his "save the Christmas"; we all bear in mind his commitment to throw balloons out; we bear in mind his propaganda use of the crisis; and we bear in mind that his Government -- like the Government of the State -- was behind the virus. Mr. Feijó, don't try to erase your mistakes with propaganda. Learn the lessons that this pandemic leaves us and act accordingly. Learn that public health saves lives and reverses twelve years of cuts and privatization. [[Applause]] Do you really think that health professionals who are currently at the limit what they are waiting for are a monument? What you're waiting for is for you to call the 6,000 vacant squares in Sergas. [[Applause]] Learn that primary care is the heart of the system and stop dismantling it. It's just that you can't come here and lie shamelessly, as you did this morning. His Government is not among those who invest most in primary care; it is that it is the fourth through the tail of the entire state, and we are under the middle, Mr. Feijóo. We ask him to return to the citizen the right to present consultations in time and form. [[Applause]] Also learn that the care of older people cannot go on in the hands of religious orders, nor in the hands of investment funds that do business with old age. We need to move forward in a public management model. It's just that in an aged Galician in twelve years -- twelve years; not one, not two, not three; twelve years, Mr. Feijóo-- he didn't start a single public residence. Not one! But doesn't she have a face of shame? [[Applause]] These are, Mr. Feijóo, some of the lessons that leave us the pandemic, and responding with propaganda and old failed recipes is a useless exercise for Galicia. We are at a time of great changes and transformations, at a time when we have many challenges ahead that are not born today, but obviously the pandemic has accelerated and has given evidence of a exhausted model that compels us to build the future on new bases. And at this moment of changes and transformations we need more than ever to think of Galicia as great. Politics has been distorted for too long, without giving the majority of society solutions, and we bet on regaining the real meaning of politics, which is what makes it possible. And if anything is necessary right now, it's to overcome short-sightedness and think about Galicia in large. I can't hide the concern I feel every time I hear it reducing Galicia to a simple satellite in Madrid; he wants to dilute us in the northwest. And look, Galicia is not an electoral slogan, Galicia is not a bipartisan pim-pam-pum weapon; Galicia is a nation with history, but, above all, a nation that has to look to the future. [[Applause]] When I look at Galicia, I see a great country with wealth, talent, resources, economic sectors with great potential and creative people and workers. And that's why the million question is, why are we going back?, why are we staying behind?, why are we losing population?, why do new people emigrate?, why do we escape our talent?, why are we in a perpetual industrial crisis? Mr. Feijóo, why, if we have everything to move forward, are we going back? There's obviously not a single cause, but there's a central element that explains this decline: a government with no ambition and no country project. And that's your government, Mr. Feijóo. He's been improvising for 12 years, and in this crisis his seams have been turned on. In a decisive moment that will mark Galicia for the next few decades, it cannot be improvised. You, Mr. Feijóo, think Galicia small, just as we need a government that thinks Galicia large. It's a brake for Galicia; you're the president who vetoes everything that Galicia's defense means: vetoes the Welsh electric tariff, bans the country's resources to create jobs and wealth here, vetoes a system of financing to have the key to our money, bans primary attention, vetoes a science pact, vetoes a system of public residences, bans more competitions. [[Murmurs.]] You only tell marriage, centralism and economic lobbyies friends of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And being the president of the veto has consequences because it leads us to political irrelevance and makes Galicia ever smaller. You make Galicia smaller in the industry. In these years there has not been a single company in crisis that its government had been able to save, not one, all of it! But if you don't even come here today to this debate and take a step forward announcing that the Union will participate in Alcoa's public intervention! And, look, do you want to save Vestas? Well it's very easy: linking the new wind farms to the company's permanence, you'll see how things change. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Leave us as an industrial balance of 14,700 jobs destroyed and an industrial production index less than twelve years ago, and we're losing competitiveness. With this picture it's normal to have thousands of workers on the street claiming solutions; solutions for Alcoa, for Vestas, for Vulcan, for Barreras, for The Bridges... Mr. Feijóo, stop looking for culprits and start looking for solutions, you'll see how the situation of our industry changes. [[Applause]] You make Galicia smaller in innovation. In 2019 the investment in R+D+i was 0.97%. This is lower than we had in 2008, lower than the average state and at a distance, well, sidereal of the European average, which is 2.2%. This data explains why half of the innovative companies have disappeared with their government and why talent is missing. And few days ago we read a headline that's very eloquent: "We've lost half a million euros in every researcher or every researcher who goes abroad." [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows news.]] It's just that the escape of talent is a drama for the country. You make Galicia smaller in the productive sectors. In 2008, there were 13,349 dairy farms. Do you know how many today? 6,768. I mean, they closed half, and they lost 17,400 jobs. The fishing sector has fewer quotas, it's hit by Brexit, and this translates into the loss of 6,200 jobs, which, look, just when the world's debate on food sovereignty is taking place, you push our fishing and livestock sector. It's, of course, a visionary, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] And with this balance comes here in the morning of your concern in rural areas, but if you're dismantling it with lack of services and support for our productive sectors! Make Galicia smaller in public services. In education: he closed 138 public schools, 1 out of 10; he cut 4.5% of teachers in public, while he increased 5.5% of teachers in private, and the university doesn't do much better, because since his arrival they accumulate a cut of 826 million euros, dragging a chronic funding deficit that he doesn't want to correct. And while you cut in public, what do you do, he's patrolling a private university for rich people driven by a bank that he's previously allowed to give a ball with savings boxes. In health care it has been more than a decade of cuts and privatizations that are especially evident in primary care, which is on the edge of the collapse. The professionals and the professionals are exhausted because their government has turned into usual practice not to cover the casualties, not to cover vacations and not to cover retirements. And so, for the first time in history, we see waiting lists coming up until three weeks to be able to have an appointment with your head doctor. Mr. Feijóo, we have to tell you something very clear: there is no shortage of professionals, what is happening is that they escape from their precariousness, or resign in blocks, as their chiefs and chiefs of service of Vigo have done. [[Applause]] Call the vacant squares in Sergas and end the precariousness and also the chaotic management that you have in primary care. Retrieve primary care agencies! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the big deal is that you come here to assume your support for the comarcas hospitals. Yes, go out to the street, and tell him "Virin doesn't close," tell him to the marine neighborhood, that now, to change the marker pile, he has to go to Lugo, or ask him to the neighborhood of Valdeorras, after he's suppressed Urology, Cardiology, Dermatology or Preventive Medicine. [[Applause]] And what about the care of older people after all the drama experienced in the residences? If there is any matter where your propaganda remains, it is precisely in the care of our elders. I have here an official press release that sent these days, "Technological advances in residences." This looks pretty good on a press release, but it's just that it's not worth anything when we have an absolutely privatized system. 85% of the residences are private or private management and they do business with old age, and that, Mr. Feijóo, is not solved with press notes, is resolved by betting on a public management model, beginning by recovering concessions as they overcome and bet on direct management of all new residences. We owe them the right to an old age to tell our elders! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You make Galicia smaller in the financial. It cost us 9,000 million euros. What's the situation today? They shut down more than half of the bank offices, destroyed 5,000 jobs and a new phenomenon was born, which is financial exclusion; today we already have over 42,000 people who don't even have a cashier to access their money. And it also increases the savings policy, more than 27 billion euros are invested outside of Galicia instead of being used to finance the creation of businesses and jobs here. And what is your answer? Well, it's giving Abanca 3 million euros to put cash boxes where they used to be cashiers and offices. We've seen who's in charge! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It makes our language and culture smaller. To begin with, it confuses culture with burying money in Gaiás, and it didn't take advantage of Xacobeo -- nor does it seem to take advantage of it -- to give a boost to our creators and creators. It's still in reverse. It's the only language in the whole state that loses speakers, above all, among younger people. And this is no coincidence, it's the result of your linguistic policy; and I'm not telling you, I tell you, the Royal Galician Academy, because the "decree of shame" is being lethal to the Greek. Your strategy of harassment and overthrow is winding up, and the result is that you're ruining the greatest wealth we have as a people. What a sad inheritance, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You also make Galicia smaller on social equality. There is an increase in the number of people at risk of poverty. It's already over 600,000; in the last year, severe poverty has grown by 20%. And there's a reality I'm especially concerned about: we have the largest number of severe poverty pensioners in the whole state, it's 170,000, and the vast majority of them are women. And with this reality your party votes against improving pensions. Does it seem so much to the People's Party that pensions will at least increase the IPC? [[Applause]] You make Galicia smaller because we're less and less. This morning he gave some demographic data that I think I remember he qualified them as demonstrators. And I agree, they're demolition! But, of course, the question is that you weren't going through here, because your party has been ruling Galicia for thirty years and you've been president for twelve years. Therefore, the demographic crisis is the portrait of the failure of the People's Party and its inability to give this country a future worthy of it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And your Christmas policies are that you have to recognize that I'm a fiasco. It's just like putting them in a box that puts them in a law, it's a real failure. It's like putting a leash on the indentation of girls and girls we have in emigration, because that's a serious problem for Galicia. I emigrated to people who would be old enough to raise children, and you have no choice. Mr. Feijó, you have to recapitate. It makes Galicia smaller in population, in industry, in productive sectors, in public services; the smaller in language and culture, the smaller in social equality. But there's something that's made bigger, three times bigger: public debt. It has multiplied by three the public debt which is currently at its most historic level and which amounts to EUR 14,515 million, 19.5 % of GDP. So you've increased the public debt of this country. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a chart.]] And I wonder, of course, seeing the balance, what did you spend all this money on? Because small inheritance will leave the youth! A youth who is indispensable to build Galicia in the future but who is emigration in the face of lack of opportunity. Since you've come to Junta, we've lost 28,000 people between 16 and 34... yes, yes, it's a demolition, Mr. Feijóo, a demographic breakdown! And do you want to know what they tell us about those young girls who are out there?"I don't intend to return in the near future," "Here I can live from my salary, pay the mortgage and save," "Not with two wages could I access a home and form a family," "I work the same, but I have a quality of life I never had," "I wish I could come back, but, like the panorama, look bad." These are not my words, they are the words of the people who have left and you can consult in the media. He's responsible for a gigantic wave of migration from the " millennial generation" to the Z generation, young prepared to escape from precariousness and low wages. In short, a youth cheated by a government that doesn't give him any opportunity. When was the last time you had any initiative in favour of youth? Where's your youth employment plan? Where are the measures to avoid emigration? Where do housing policies facilitate emancipation? I'm going to give you a data: do you know how many public promotion homes this government delivered in 2019? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo marks the government's benches with her hand.]] Four, four! At this rate, you'd need more than forty years to fulfill the propaganda announcements this morning. It's been a long time since you turned your back on youth and that's why youth is turning your back on you. [[Applause]] Mr Feijóo, Galicia needs a president who trusts the country. Because even though you think of it as small, Galicia is big. We are a great country with wealth, potential and honest and hardworking people. And this great Galician deserves much more than a president who moves between submission and confrontation. Submission and servitude to Casado; sterile confrontation with the Government of Sánchez, using Galicia as a partisan weapon in favour of the interests of the PP and the economic lobbyies friends of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And, if you do, this morning Mr. Feijóo came to give us a fair degree of restraint when we are before the farthest People's Party in history. This made it very clear to us in that convention of ideological revival in which interesting things are said, because, in the end, the result is that I am the PP who tells us that the important thing is not to vote in freedom, but to vote well; the PP who despises the state of autonomy -- imagine what a plurinational state can say -- the PP who defends a monolytic and monarchical Spain, with a corrupt real house; the PP who has as ideological references to politicians condemned for corruption; the PP who denies our language because it does not accept plurilingualism... ultimately, a deeply old-fashioned People's Party, because it questions our self-government, our language and betweet a centralism that is lethal to Galicia; the PP more ultra, more centralist and older than you embrace. [[Applause]] Because it has to be admitted that it was an advance on that ultra road that they now travel without complexes. He was a pioneer in the attack on the Greek, he cut off aid to victims of macho violence and has the sad record of being the only president who has not achieved a single transfer in twelve years; he was an advanced in the manipulation of the public media and an advance in the strategy of nullifying Parliament through bronca, lies and crispation. And the facts speak for you, because in politics, as in life, you have to stand, and your government action makes it very clear which side you are, Mr. Feijóo: on the side of the party's friendly economic lobbyies; private or privatized economic lobbyies, but generously watered with public resources, which for that have the turning doors. And with the price of light at 300 euros megavatio/hour -- a scam in every rule for Galicia, for businesses and for families -- it's appropriate to remember some of the names that crossed those rotational doors on a list that lead, for their own merits, former presidents González and Aznar. But there are many more figures: Fatima Báñez, Iberdrola; Isabel Garcia Tejerina, Iberdrola; Ana Palacios, Iberdrola; Angel Acebes, Iberdrola; Elena Salgado, Endesa; Gonzalo Solana, Enegasa; José Folgado, El El El Electric Red; Jose José Borrell, El El El Electric Red; Jose José Borrell, Abengo; Luis Carlos Croissier, Repsol; Manuel Marín, Iberdrola; Pedro Solbes, Enel; Pius Cabinillas, Endesa; Luis María Atizio Fernández de Mes Table; Luis María Atienza, El Electric Red Electric Red; José Montilla, Enegasia; José Blanco Montilla, Enegalas; José Blanco, Enegagas; José Blanco, Enzuela, Elékrol, Red Eléque Eléques. Perhaps in 2024 you also aspire to cross some of these rotating doors. This would explain many of his decisions; he would explain why he vetoed a Welsh electric tariff, his refusal to a public electricity company, or why a predatory wind boom is running that respects neither the rural environment nor the environment. [[Applause]] How long will he keep hugging the electrics, Mr. Feijóo? Because that embrace depicts his way of ruling against the social majority, even in matters that are essential to people's lives. And that way of ruling with the electricians, but also with Ence, with Audasa or with DomusVi. Here's Ence as an example of how he puts forward the interests of friendly economic lobbyists, and, in addition, skipping the law with an extension declared illegal by the National Audience. And now you have to choose whether you persist in an illegal extension, risking jobs, or if you get to work to move the factory and save the job. You have to choose, Mr. Feijóo: either he's with the board of directors or he's with Galicia. Choose. [[Applause]] But we have more examples: AP-9. An AP-9 whose extensions of concessions have been declared illegal by the European Commission, which means that the Greeks and the Greeks paid 1,091 million euros in illegal fares since 2013. You have nothing to say? It's normal for you to have nothing to say or look at me, because it's embarrassing what they do with AP-9. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo addressed Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo.]] [[Applause]] But it seems to me, Mr. Feijóo, that I should be concerned that the "illegal" adjective appears so often alongside the People's Party management. Look, the last of those extensions for twenty-five years was a gift from Mr. Aznar, who we also owe to the privatization of AP-9 while you were the flaming advisor to Territorial Policy. [[Applause]] I suppose it has nothing to say here, besides acknowledging the merit of the discounts negotiated by the BNG in AP-9, which, in truth, must have a face, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] AP-9 is an example of friendship capitalism, like DomusVi, the main residential manager in Galicia, property of investment funds operating from tax havens. In twelve years as President of the Government he didn't set up a single public residence. That's why, nothing else, he privatized 49% of Sogaserso and he's going to give 74 million euros to the private residential sector, of which DomusVi remains with a substantial portion of the cake. As you see, there are examples of how you rule in favour of the People's Party's economic lobbyies and against the interests of Galicia. And we're very afraid that all of this will surround the future of Next Generation funds. The danger that we have is that these funds remain in the hands of a handful of multinationals -- better, even the electricians that are swindling us now -- and that they are a missed opportunity; a missed opportunity for the productive sectors, for pemes, for the public services and to lay the foundations for a new economic model. [[Applause]] And it's very revealing that it hides Parliament and the whole of the Greek society that you want to give this money to. What do you have to hide, Mr. Feijóo? Do you have anything to contribute here, besides doing what you did this morning, which is to recognize your incompetence to defend Galician interests? Of course, his obscurantism is worrying. Finally, Mr. Feijóo, you leave a smaller Galician because it rules to be useful to married people and economic elites. And there is a change of direction, to put Galicia ahead of us because debates of great transcendence are waiting for us. [[Applause]] And to address these debates it is key to decide here and question centralism, which is being used to concentrate wealth, resources and population in Madrid, while Galicia loses that wealth, those resources and that population. You have to make use of Galicia's interests, and that's why you have to stop thinking small and start thinking Galicia's big. And with that goal, to build Galicia in large, we bring a decade-long gap with strategic goals proposals. The first strategic goal is self-government. We need to gain more political weight and ability to decide on our own. You can't keep stopping the German self-government. I have already told you that we are going to bring to this debate a double proposal: firstly, to put in place the Committee on Transfers to ask for all pending powers, and secondly, to activate a presentation in Parliament to put on the table the debate on a new political status where we have very clear and we believe that the logical thing is to move forward so that we can be recognized as what we are: a nation where the most relevant decisions are in the hands of the Greek citizen. The second strategic objective is how we finance economic recovery. And in that area, it is key to having the key to our money, because of course there is no political autonomy without financial autonomy. I, Mr. Feijóo, am absolutely sure that you would rather manage your salary directly than manage it a third to 600 kilometers. And the question is, why would Galicia deny you what she wants? This is a debate to be held, and I ask you not to be blinded by centralist ideology. The current financing model has expired since 2014 and is prejudicial to Galicia, which brings more than it receives. The BNG proposal is very clear: we want an economic concert like what they have Euskadi or Navarra, which gives us the key to our money. I am also aware that Mr. Married would never allow you to defend this option. So at least what we're asking is that you defend greater fiscal and financial autonomy for Galicia. And BNG also has proposals on this line that go beyond what you proposed this morning. We need to increase the percentage of tax yielded to 90%, claiming to Galicia the transfer of corporate tax, which tax here companies that have productive activity here. The Iberdrola, the Naturgy, the Endesses and so many others must pay taxes here because they exploit our natural resources. And advance in a green tax. [[Applause]] And to consensualize this position of the country we propose a study committee in Parliament to address a model of financing just for Galicia, because what cannot be said is that the fiscal policy of its government is reduced to tax reductions to those who have the most. The Next Generation funds are also important in this second strategic goal. We are quite clear that these funds are not panacea. We are also concerned that they bring new social cuts to the face, but it is clear that they are the only extraordinary funds that we will have for economic recovery. And here, of course, we don't know what your proposal is. We only know you're here complaining about centralism, but then when the BNG proposed decentralization, you voted against it. And it is curious that he criticizes the obscurantism he practices in Galicia. Anyway, let's see if at least on this subject we can move forward. In any case, we will formulate a four-point strategy: bilaterality, with a Joint State Commission to claim EUR 12.600 million from European funds. Transparency. Send to Parliament all projects sent to Madrid. Capitality, so that the funds can reach the productive fabric, the pemes and the public services. And codecision with Parliament, so that we choose here the tractor projects and how they are prioritized. The third strategic goal is to raise our industrial sector. To do this, we must start by stopping relocations and closing companies and rescuing strategic sectors: Alcoa, Alu Iberian or the naval sector. And in this area, it would be important for us to have a Galego Institute of Credit, which would give us a very powerful tool to be able to act. We need to boost the industrial fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises geared to innovation, value-added creation and quality employment. We have sectors where we can do this: automotive, naval, aerospace, robotics, chemical-pharmaceutical, forest, agro-industry or the sea-industry. And how can you? For we propose a plan for the promotion of technological and industrial activity, with the aim of raising industry's GDP by 25 % in 2030. And in relation to the industrial sector, the swindle of light demonstrates the importance of the energy sector in social and economic terms. This is a matter that deserves an in-depth debate. So we propose a table for a Welsh pact for energy that addresses several elements: how to compensate Galicia for its productive function; a fair energy transition; the impulse of an energy storage center; a new wind model that respects the environment, that respects the rural environment, that links itself to industrial projects and with public participation in profits; and, finally, to push changes to end the fallen benefits of the sky and to recover the concessions that are expiring through a public energy company. The strategic objective fourth is the infrastructure. And I would like to mention AP-9 as a spinal axis and to announce to them that we will bring the proposal to rescue the AP-9 concession, taking advantage of the European Commission's statement, to put an end to abusive sins. In terms of mobility, we also propose a plan to make our ports and airports competitive, starting by claiming to the State that assumes the debt of the port of Coruña, as you did with Valencia, and boosting the role of the port of Vigo as a great economic engine and the Atlantic freight corridor. For us relations with Portugal must be strategic, beyond what infrastructure means, because it's an economic opportunity for Galicia. But you look so much at Madrid that you don't see the Atlantic power. [[Applause]] The fifth strategic goal is to strengthen public services. The most urgent thing is to get the public health system out of the ICU. And that's about reversing clippings and privatizations. We propose an impact plan of EUR 200 million in primary care, strengthen and hire more staff in all categories and achieve the objective that 25% of the Sergas budget is devoted to primary care at the end of the legislation. Secondly, we bet there's a mental health plan, but it's already announced to us last year, and what you did was set up a million euros. So we ask you to take the problem seriously, given that suicide is already the second cause of deaths among young people in our country. And I also want to announce that we're going to make the defense of a new model of public management residences a central element, because we have to guarantee a fundamental right to a decent old age and that that doesn't become a business. We know that turning things back isn't done in two days, but I'm telling you that for BNG it's going to be an undeniable goal. [[Applause]] The sixth strategic objective is science, so we propose a Greek science pact that includes that in the medium term we achieve an investment of 2.5 % of GDP and that we bet on withholding and collecting talent with measures like Innogal, because without scientists there is no science and without science there is no future. [[Applause]] The seventh strategic target is the climate emergency. And, among the priorities, it has to be the development of a Welsh law against climate change -- a law that has to address issues such as fires, waste, urban planning, environmental conservation or water management. And in this respect, I want to tell you that for nothing, you can keep the sablament at the receipt of the water that prepares your government; you have to go right in the opposite direction. [[Applause]] He told us this morning about ecological despotism. I have to tell you that what concerns us is electrical despotism, that's why your friend of Iberdrola's gets away while Galicia pays environmental costs and citizenship to cheat on the bill of light. We have to fight against that, too. [[Applause]] The eighth strategic objective is equality. And here let me think about how important it is to isolate those who broadcast a speech of hatred, intolerance, LGTBIFobia, macho and negationist of violence against women. The wick of intolerance and hatred is very easy to arrest, but it's not so easy to extinguish. We all have tragic episodes in our minds like Samuel's murder. We have to build a society in which no one feels discriminated against, or threatened by their beliefs, their feelings or their way of loving. Mr. Feijóo, I ask the People's Party to join the sanitary cord against the far right, so that that wick will not be attached. [[Applause]] In women's struggle for equality, there's a lot to do and we need to go faster. That is why we continue to advocate legal measures against the wage gap, real policies of conciliation and co-responsibility, and, as it does not, to fight against masculine violence 1 out of 100 euros in Galicia, 1 out of 100 euros in favour of equality and freedom of women. The 9th strategic goal is language and culture. Betting for our language and culture is a matter of national pride, but it's also an important issue in creating jobs and wealth. We propose to allocate 2% of the Next Generation funds to culture, create the Castro Rosalía Institute for internationalization and promote audiovisual creation as a strategic issue. As far as language is concerned, it is urgent to derogate the "Decree of Shame" and return the Welshman to teaching as a vehicle language. [[Applause]] And it completes this decalogue of objectives for the defence of democracy. We have a low-quality democracy, in which the economic powers do and do without presenting themselves to the elections. A low-quality democracy because it has vamped TVG; a low-quality democracy because it uses its absolute majority in an absolutistic way to numb this Parliament; a low-quality democracy truffled with bank abuse, rotational doors and tax fraud, in which -- you have to say -- the fugitive emeritus symbolizes as few that in this state we are not all equal before the law. We have to put an end to this if we want a full democracy. [[Applause]] And finished, Mr. President. These are strategic issues of the BNG to think Galicia big, because, Mr Feijóo, despite his twelve-year balance of destruction, deconstruction and demolition of the country, we are optimistic at the BNG. We are optimistic about Galicia's future, optimistic about both intelligence and will, irreverent optimistic about Galicia's future. Because Galicia is a great country. Every day, in every place, thousands of Welsh and Welsh raise the blinds to get their business forward against wind and tide. Every day families face the challenge of reconciling personal and work life, especially women, without surrendering. Every day, we know small and medium-sized companies that are leading companies. Every day we have examples of the creative talent of our culture people, in all the fields, without surrendering to the mountains they have to go up or the deserts they have to cross. Every day, in every village, in every small village of the countryside or coast, we see examples in defense of that way of living and inhabiting the territory. It is the resistance against abandonment and depopulation. Every day, our youth sets an example of their ability to undertake and pursue life. Every day, thousands of workers and workers demonstrate that we have a top-level productive fabric and that we have wealth to be referenced in the agricultural sector, in fisheries, in industry. Every day we can see solidarity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u24	...the courage, generosity and the push of a living and active citizenship, which was an example in this pandemic. For all this, and much more, Galicia is a great country and doesn't deserve a president who thinks and acts in small ways. From BNG we want to build a new Galician, a large Galician. And in that endeavour, we will continue to work, from the optimism of intelligence and will, hand by hand, with the Greeks and with the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u26	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Few times in the history of this House has this debate about the general policy of the autonomous community at such an exceptional moment; at a time when so many Greek families cry to their parents, mothers, brothers, friends and friends... ultimately to the 2,643 deceased as a result of the first pandemic that has lived mankind since the last century and in which 500 Greeks and Greeks continue to suffer from illness, 44 of them hospitalized. We want all of them to send our hearts and our deepest affection. At a time when many people, many of our neighbours, are suffering the effects of the pandemic and the decisions that had to be taken to minimize their expansion, they left their jobs, their living conditions, and even their physical and mental health. A crisis, like all the past, that has introduced into our society new inequalities that a society of solidarity like Galicia must not stop. At a time when the pandemic and its effects accumulate in front of a society that began to recover from the great financial crisis of the past decade and tried to face, on this historic occasion, the vanguard of transformations and global challenges that represent for all societies and nations of the world the digital revolution, with its effects on production and employment, and climate change, with its effects on well-being. In the end, it has been necessary to stop, reflect generally, as it is intended with the annual institutionalization of this debate, and to explain what is the position of the various democratic representatives in these moments of historical transformations about where we are, where we are going and, as a politically organized society, where we want to go. On how we are, because the essence of this debate, first of all, is accountability to society, accountability to the Government, which, through its president, this morning exposed everything done in recent months, but also accountability to Parliament and the groups represented in it. And about where we want to go, in which direction and with what actions and instruments we intend to act to improve the coexistence and well-being of our people. Because the second essential element of this debate can only be that of setting priorities for the political autonomy of the future, which was also the starting point for the broad statement by the President this morning. One year ago, in the investment session, there was a single coincidence between the spokespersons of the groups: we all reaffirmed in our commitment to give the best of ourselves, to work together and, if possible, in a consensual way to overcome the pandemic crisis, each from his position, logically: most of us assuming the responsibility of government and the opposition by dialogue, criticizing and offering alternatives when the Government at its trial was wrong, and even if it was the case -- which did not happen -- supporting the Government when it thought it was right. That investment debate had already taken place in an exceptional and specific context: the pandemic had just broken the normal march of our lives, the first wave had just passed, and we were still waiting for four more vacancies, three of them, by the way, much more intense in number of people infected. To the thread of the emotional impact of the first wave, both in Spain and in the rest of the developed world, the visibility of the groups that threatened liberal democracy with which so many countries have prospered over the last few decades has been accentuated. Negationist movements and, in particular, anti-virgins took advantage of the uncertainties generated by the new virus to expand the most unsavory and scientific theses, both on the origin of the virus and on the alleged conspiracy underlying its global expansion, which was, of course, a way of controlling the population from dark power instances. As French philosopher Bernard-Henri Lévy recalls, they have proliferated extremist movements, forgetting the natural nature of the viruses, which have accompanied us since the man treads the Earth and with much more demolition effects than the coward-19, as has, by the way, demonstrated Professor Martín Signs in His Eternal War. Extremisms of one and another that found that the virus was either the reaction of the mother Earth, that it protected itself from the action of humans, or a divine punishment, that, as in the old testament, we should accept with resignation repentance. Says Lévy: "The old Marxist moon of the crisis of the end of capitalism mixed with collapsology." Because there was one who predicted communism in the star of a confinement seen as the most brutal totalitarian wing made reality, such as Žižek, or the emergence of authoritarian governments, "coronaditions" -- as Sloterdijk said --. And other possible analysts were right when they warned us that, like the virus itself with regard to people suffering from previous problems, the threat to democratic systems was more serious in those societies where social unrest and frustration brought on the populists. A year later we can confirm that the world has not walked towards communism or proliferated in it the crowns. There are even indications -- like the results of the elections in the United States, Germany or in the recent municipalities of Portugal -- that they are walking in the opposite direction, as in a way they also anticipated in the autonomous elections in Greece a year ago. But there is also the persistence of these risks and liberals if we look at what is happening in Poland or Hungary; the risks of stability in democratic countries if we are not able to reduce the discomfort and social regression resulting from the pandemic. That is why, a year after that investment, I think we can all feel satisfied as Parliament, as a parliamentary group, with the democratic normality and the political stability that we have given the country in the last year; the democratic normality of which this debate is another proof. Because Parliament has worked a lot in the last year -- and I think it's fair to remember it today --. We continue to be Parliament with more hours of debate in the midst of all the autonomous parliaments. In the past year, we have approved 15 legislative texts (9 projects submitted by the Government and 6 bills -- 3 of the majority group, 2 of the Block and 1 that reformed the regulation precisely to facilitate the work of the House in the pandemic signed by the three groups -- ). And I think it's a good legislative result. As it could not be otherwise, legislative activity focused on the fight against the pandemic, with the adoption of such important rules as reform of the Health Act and the Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia, in order to make better use of European funds, but without leaving any other problems on which it was urgent to legislate, such as the first law adopted in Spain for the demographic impulse, the Land Management Act, the Waste and Contaminated Lands Act or the Law on Recovery of Galicia's Agrarian Land. We have also unanimously reformed the laws of equality between men and women, to guarantee it in the field of research, and the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Gender Violence, to incorporate vicarious violence. And we have logically complied with the budgetary function, with the processing and approval on the margins of the parliamentary vacations of the current Budget Act by 2021, and how we will also comply to reduce uncertainties and promote recovery by the Budget Law by 2022. And Parliament also has control over the Executive, as evidenced by the average daily presence in which two government members are legislated between these walls to appear and answer questions and appeals. We have fulfilled the function of impulse, approving about 300 non-law proposals in full and commission and about half of them unanimously, and three-quarters of the initiatives we are dealing with are sleepy at the initiative of an opposition, which with these little figures has to speak and hold the mantra of the scroll of the majority, as well as to support the mantra and the role that most do not act on the subjects I have just mentioned. This chamber has fulfilled, irrespective of the position each group had on the issues discussed, with its democratic obligations. And I think we should all congratulate ourselves for that, because it contributes to strengthening our institutions and avoiding the risks of democratic involution that are present elsewhere and even warns us of what happened in other representative chambers that are also ours, as is the case with Congress of Members. As far as the People's Group is concerned, I would like to make a record of my gratitude for the efforts made by the Members and Members who make it up. Certainly, an intense activity by executive and legislative authorities does not guarantee good results, so it is also necessary to balance, and all balance begins -- even the accountants -- by the balance sheet. And as it corresponds to the times we live in, we speak, first of all, about health care, because -- as we all know -- the health treatment of the pandemic caused by the virus was the essential requirement to recover social normality and economic activity, because the critical economic situation we are going through over the past few months has its cause in the social unemployment that the pandemic imposed. And it's also true that better health behaviour enables us to cope with economic recovery before, as, of course, we're also checking in Galicia. The results of health management are in sight and we must all be grateful to whoever made them possible. Of course, first of all, public health professionals, but, of course, managers as well. Because Galicia has always been along the successive vacancies in a better situation than the average of Spain, measured in terms of the cumulative incidence of fourteen days, which was the data that made decisions conditional. As a result -- as is confirmed by the data made public by the Ministry of Health -- Galicia is the peninsula community with fewer deaths per million inhabitants -- half of the Spanish average -- despite the aging of a Welsh population, which makes particularly tragic the effect of coronavirus infection on that population. Mrs. Pontón, after all we hear here with some unfortunate death, for example what happened on the Road, which motivated you to set up an investigation commission, listen today to talk about that when we defend the results of the pandemic management in terms of that we resist much better and save lives is frankly pathetic. [[Applause]] Galicia is the autonomous community that has the highest percentage of people vaccinated with the full pattern of total population to be vaccinated, 92.5%. We're talking about an autonomous community that is part of the state, the European Union, which is at the head of the vaccination process. Today the cumulative incidence of fourteen days places us as the second lowest risk community, and in seven days, as the first. And, of course, there will be one who can attribute all these figures to chance, random or even -- as a well-known articulist teacher said a few months ago in a newspaper -- to the protective hand of the Apostle James. But even considering all these factors -- which each of you will value as appropriate -- something must have influenced, on the one hand, the previous state of Public Service Galician Health -- which was subjected to a stress test without a comparison -- and, on the other hand, the measures taken by the autonomous authorities to protect the right to health and ultimately the life of the entire population; and, in particular, after the end of the first strike, when the Government presided over by Mr. Sánchez delegated the full management of the pandemic to autonomous communities. And I understand that, when you've been denying the improvement of our public health for years, and if you come back today, once again, you insist that you've been destroying public services for twelve years and, in particular, public health, it must be very difficult to assume that primary care could be taken over the follow-up of more than 100,000 people who have surpassed their homes with health care through the technological resources incorporated into Sergas that you criticized when they were implanted. I also understand that it must be difficult to assume that these hospitals that have been saying that they haven't worked properly were able to resist peaks of more than 250 patients covered in critical units and more than 1,200 in hospitalization. And those health infrastructures that you've demonized, such as the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital, made it possible not only to care for patients in your health area, but also to receive patients from other areas and even to offer room for Portuguese patients if needed. It must also be hard to assume that this same year, after saying in the summer in the Permanent Deputy that they requested, that we were going to take Galicia to health collapse as a result of the closing of beds, it turns out that, being open -- 90 percent of beds were operational -- attention, despite the fact that there was a virus wave, was 72%, so it was clear that, despite having to deal with a new strike, the predictions of the Union were correct. Or, for example, with regard to the vaccination process, during this year we had to debate initiatives such as the one presented by the Block in April, which asked Parliament for more information and questioned the capacity to vaccinate the Union. Mrs. Pontón then claimed an operating plan twenty-four hours a day and more contracts because if you weren't going to be able to vaccinate. And so was Mr. Knight. The following week the councillor gave here the explanations of how the vaccination plan would be extended to the population as a whole. A webpage was installed to inform the entire population in general. And it culminated in a massive vaccination process that had a very high degree of satisfaction among users both by the organization and by the agility and treatment received. Those dangerous endless queues that involved a clear risk to the older people, who are one of the most vulnerable groups -- of which Mrs. Pontón spoke -- at the beginning of the vaccination process, were left in the forgetfulness, but today they are more than each one did and said, from the government or from the opposition, during the pandemic. Fortunately, citizenship did not give rise to alarmism and participated in the vaccination process with exemplaryness. I also remember Mr. Caballero's allegations about the thousands of vaccines that Junta had in the fridge, when Galicia was always among the best communities as a percentage of vaccines administered on vaccines delivered. Or it was also said that they weren't released for lack of staff, when it actually happened sometimes otherwise, we had the staff waiting for days for more vaccines to be able to put them in. Our worst moment, no doubt -- as it was said here -- was the third wave, after Christmas. The opposition criticized, basically after, the measures taken at that time, although they were much more strict than the Central Government proposed. Everyone can be wrong in their forecasts, but the fact is that the virulence of this third wave surprised the governments of all colors. But if the measures taken in December were for the PSdEG a strategy to save Christmas, what do we call the government of Spain, which were much more lax?, what could we call them? The case is that even at the worst moment of accumulated incidence of the covid in that wave was lower in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. And maybe this data is also surprising to a Block that then proposed home confinement and total closure for fifteen days in January, when in mid-February the measures taken by the Board then succeeded in reducing in only twenty days 80% of the incidence of the virus in our country. You've also spent months spreading doubts about the contact tracking facility. They asked for emergency procurement files, they were given them; from the moment they received them, the subject died, the story died. It was a suspicious, dark problem, as always: friends, lobbying -- the mantra of the Block --. And by the way, that service is no longer hired by emergencies, a public contest has already been resolved and it's on the board's website with all the nails, minutes, etc. And -- which is most important -- the board tracking service makes, according to ministerial figures, the traceability of the virus is in Galicia at 71 percent, when only five communities exceed 70%. The tracking system, the one we had to hear from you, works better in Galicia than in most communities. And we cannot leave health without reference to the Health Act, an initiative driven by the Government of the majority in this chamber, once the persistence that has been maintained so far by the Government of Spain not to legislate for pandemic cases and without having to declare the state of alarm. A request not only to the Autonomous Community of Galicia and many others, such as the Basque Country, but also to the Council of State and the Supreme Court itself, to the Government of Spain; to the Supreme Court, who passed the ballot to decide on administrative measures to contain contagions in which one has called a new judicial college. Galicia had to take the initiative and draw up its own legislation adopted in Parliament. When this bill was brought to debate, the opposition here said things like the following: that this law was a Bolivarian delirium of Mr. Feijóo, that this law was the authoritarian derivative of the PP, that this law wanted to implement a state of permanent alarm or that it was a law that restricted the rights and freedoms of the Greeks. When we finally passed the law, the Central Government did act quickly. He set up an unconstitutional remedy, exercising the constitutional prerogative to suspend it automatically; without a call, without a prior communication, without anything. He urgently asked the Council of State to tell me to go through several articles of that law. And the State Council told him that he didn't understand the urgency and that five of the six articles he wanted to resort to were fully constitutional. In spite of that, the Government has taken this article to the Constitutional Court, in its entirety, all its precepts, arguing that it was very serious and unconstitutional. Shortly thereafter, the Autonomous Government of the PSOE on the Balearic Islands copied and literally picked up all the headings, except one, of that visited article. In the summer the Constitutional Court lifted the suspension of all paragraphs, except one. And the central government, to stop doing something that was strange, in a matter where he had less and less arguments, decided to withdraw the resource and speak. And speaking came to an agreement in that single paragraph which caused doubts. I'm going to read an excerpt from what I myself said in the discussion of taking into account that law: "Vaccine is not mandatory and therefore this law does not make it compulsory. But what would happen if the State made it compulsory? For if the State declares that vaccination is mandatory, this law provides for the situation of vaccination when it is compulsory and, of course, compulsory does not work and does not exist." The final outcome of the negotiation with the Government, the final result to which the Government of the State comes, is an agreement that says more or less the same as the spokesperson of the People's Group on this chamber. I think it's a great achievement of the Socialist Party; they started rejecting the whole of the law and ended up getting an agreement to modify the section of an article by putting what the spokesperson for the People's Party said, and the rest of the paragraphs and the rest of the articles copied them by the socialists from other autonomous communities. Fortunately, the important thing is that we have a law that allows the Board to act once the state of health emergency has been lifted and, in this case, despite the statement by the opposition and not thanks to its collaboration. Together, the Union continues to work on improving public health outside the pandemic. And that's also why I want to recognize the effort the board is making. In this year, he advanced his commitment to the House: he pushed the recovery of the care activity, reducing the medium waiting times; he recovered the presence of primary care and strengthened it despite the existing structural problems such as the shortage of professionals; he created the poscovid units, which began operating in April and already conducted a total of five thousand consultations with a more specialized care of the patients; he launched this year eight health centres: The Milladoiro, Paderne de Allariz, Narón, Melide, Saviníao, the Bouzas, de Vigo, which will open in the coming days; he started the works of the integral centre of Lalin; he signed agreements to initiate the processes of new health centres in Antas de Ulla, Aegondo, The Street, Sotomaorior or Vilagaría; he started the first phase of the extension of the Montecelo Hospital and phase 0 of the new CHUAC; he added the state-of-the-the-the-art plan of expansion of phase 1 of the program; he ordered the extension of the management of the Santiago Hospital de Ourse; I also want to mention that he created the first centralized lists of hospital staff and created the new category of home hospital doctor, where Galicia is a pioneer in Spain. And they're already hired -- Mrs. Pontón said that a mental health plan was announced here -- the first 95 new professionals to put in place the programs provided for in the Mental Health Plan, with five new suicide prevention units, three mental health units of new adults and five new infant-juvenins, among others. It is very important for Galicia that this pandemic does not mean wasted time in progress and reforms that need our public health, especially in the field of primary care. And that's why since the People's Group we especially value the government's failure to stop in the improvements that public health needs. After health, the Government's main concern has been and is being -- like not! --the economic and social situation. In 2019 the GDP per capita of Galicia, the main indicator of economic growth of a country's wealth, was 82.1 of the European average and the highest historical value of its convergence with the average of Spain, 90.3. In this way Galicia was in 2000-2019 the community where GDP per capita increased at constant prices, an average of 1.7, compared to the Spanish average of 0.9. In these years we have climbed seven positions of wealth in terms of per capita GDP, from being the last to being the tenth on this scale. In this growth there were three stages; in the period 2000-2008, intense, then during the crisis we went back, but in the period 2014-2019, after the crisis, it was increased, being Galicia, with an average growth rate of 3.1, the second autonomous community that grew most. This better behaviour of Galicia has brought us in the last nineteen years to agree with the European average of seven points. We haven't recovered the level of the vault yet, but we converged seven points. And we are a unique case in all the regions of southern Europe, because none of them was able to converge with the European average at that time, as we did, that we went from 75 to 82.1. A great collective success that speaks well, he speaks well of the European funds, but he also speaks well of the general economic management and of the Union in particular, which with this good management of the funds is legitimized to call for the decentralization of the European funds. There's data from the European Commission -- it's also mentioned that the Board was returning money -- which says Galicia is the fifth autonomous community that Feder's most funds run and has a higher execution of 12% on the average of the autonomous communities. As a result of this growth, the available income of the Greek households, which is what they have to spend, to consume, to save and which measures the actual economic capacity of the inhabitants of a territory, increased by 64 % between 2000 and 2019, improving nine points in convergence with the Spanish average, reaching 93.9. And I would like to point out that the difference between that 93.9 and GDP per capita, which is 3.6 points in favour of the latter, reflects the redistribution capacity of the Spanish tax system. Our income is closer to Spain's average than our production, because the system of the welfare state of Spain, the system of the Constitution works. And it's worth remembering when we hear it again, as we've been listening for a long time, against any technical, scientific or economic evidence, that what suits Galicia is a particular economic concert. Galicia does not suit you, proposes Catalonia or proposes itself from Galicia. The pandemic has certainly changed the economic and social situation of all over Europe, all over the world. Spain was one of the countries most affected by the pandemic. The Spanish GDP dropped by 10.8. Fortunately, Galicia, with less intense restrictions and a fight against the best-held pandemic, has endured more, with a fall of 8.9, two points less than the average of Spain; a fall that could have been much greater without doubt in Spain and Galicia if it had not acted the European Union. He spoke with the European Central Bank, buying all the sovereign debt necessary at small costs, or suspending the stability rules, or funding the EREs, that figure included in the labour reform of the People's Party that some want to completely derogate. Thanks to all these aids, which we have found today are the European Union's proposal, therefore the President of the Commission, the German Christian Democrat Ursula von der Leyen, or the French liberal Christine Lagarde, who we now discover are great socialists of the progressive left wing of European socialism, Galicia and Spain have endured. In the same way that all of this allowed Galicia to resist, also the Union had something to do with it. It had something to do with, among other things, the rapid mobilization of own funds. I appreciate the references to the late advisor Valeriano Martínez, who was also a good friend, on behalf of the entire Popular Group -- it is certainly a great loss and we will miss it -- than one of his last actions was the rapid mobilization of funds to put in place for 180 million euros several rescue plans. Obviously that was also possible by the good prior management of autonomous finances, and those funds had 80,000 applications and they were quickly exhausted; which did not happen by course with the third plan managed by the Board but with money and conditions and requirements established by the Government of Spain, to which four thousand applications were submitted. There is a requirement that it is to have debts to pay, which obviously prevents more applicants. He has adjourned several times and talked about reforming it, but it is true that Galicia is in danger of losing 170 million euros for these impossible conditions, since no one asks for them. Well, in this context where health, educational and social expenditure has been fired and Junta has done its duty to finance the weaker productive sectors, to state, as has been said in this chamber over the past few years, that Feijóo is making boxes with the pandemic not only is wrong, because Airef has rejected it every time he publishes the deficit data of the autonomous community, both in 2020 and in 2021, but it is suspicious, because he intends to insinuate that this inability to manage -- which is not true, by the data I have just given -- can be counterproductive to a country and it seems that he can pre-constitute evidence to send little money to Galicia. I would ask about this serious issue. The president asked for consensus this morning on the request for funds and I think that there should be no one in this chamber to step away from that consensus. Obviously that the Union is also the first autonomous community paying the suppliers, obviously also the fact that tax obligations were suspended and obviously also the fact that we lowered taxes in previous years helped to provide liquidity to families and businesses in Galicia, and they also had to deal with better recovery. The same way it has to do with the promotion that is being made of the Holy Year and the Holy Year. Here, however, we note the Apostle's hand so that the reactivation in Galicia is a little better than that in Spain, which is not a consolation, because Spain is the largest country in the European Union that is worse. But indeed, in Galicia things haven't done as bad as they've said. What's coming now is worrying. There are countries that have already withdrawn monetary aid; Russia, Norway, New Zealand, Korea is rising interest rates; the Federal Reserve has announced it for next year. And the truth is, here's where the help is kept and we're going to receive a lot of help. These aids are conditional on reforms. Mrs Pontón applauds the aid, even asking for much help from Galicia of the European Union and criticising the conditions laid down by the European Union. This is a curious contradiction, which we'd like to know how you're going to solve. But, in any case, we'll see that it makes the government so progressive when, from the next year, interest rates change and, of course, when they start from Europe asking what happens with the reform of Social Security, which goes through the reform of the tax system, which goes through the reform of the labour system and all these issues in which we know that the Government of Spain has no consensus or unity capable of transforming them. The next week the budgets will come in this chamber, and I want to remind you that we have a spending ceiling slightly higher than the actual expenditure last year. And I want to admit that the Government of Spain has done something very sensible, something that the former Socialist Government has not done, that it has been to forgive the negative liquidations of the year 2019 to the autonomous communities; this is good for Spain, for the autonomous communities and also for Galicia. But the spending ceiling gets where it comes from because we claim the VV of exercise 2017. I want to remember, once again, what was said then. When we presented the resource that allows this year to have the same spending capacity, a little more than the previous year, what was said in this chamber was that it was a child's patalette, which was an example that the Government of the Union imitated the Catalan Government and pointed to Spain's government in their clothes, and, fortunately, once again, Justice put everyone in their place. But, of course, neither on the issue of the IVE claim did we have the slightest help from one side of the opposition. Public spending next year will have to increase. Obviously, the priority will be social expenditure. We talked about equality, and, as we know, I understand that there's a way to do politics that's to bring the letter to a person that I'm sure there's a lot of people who are very economically disadvantaged, going through great problems, and there's also going to be others whose life smiled at them and they're successful. But objective analysis is what it requires to see the data, and if we take the equality data in Galicia, we can see that, with the Gini index and the European Commission data, where one expresses the maximum inequality, 0 the perfect equality, Galicia has a 0.26. 0.29 was in 2015 and now we're in 0.26. We've been growing up all these years reducing inequalities in Galicia. We have more equality in Galicia, 0.26, than in the EU average, 0.30, and much lower than in Spain, 0.32. The same is true of the S80/S20 indexes. And, of course, we can also see it in extreme poverty rates, in the AROPE rate. Certainly, and again with the fact that we have better indicators of equality, we can think that it was a bet, we can think it's a chance or we can think that they have something to do with the policies of the Union. The number of total public money-funded squares has doubled since 2009. Mrs. Pontón said she hadn't created a single residence. He omitted the fact that, when the Block was managing well-being in Galicia, it has increased since they ruled by 44% the number of publicly funded squares in residences. When you say we privatize 49% of Sogasersso, you forget that Sogaserso created it and 49% was privatized because 51% was already private since the Block founded it. But, finally, all these issues are... minor in a speech that was filled with demagogy. [[Applause]] The truth is, when the welfare block ruled, there were 5,500 people in public squares and today there are slightly more than 8,000. Certainly, the number of dependents attended in Galicia in 2021 is 63,000, when in 2009 it was 15,000. In addition, Union continues to finance 76% of dependency benefits, and we are now in a shock plan that will allow time to be reduced and paper-free in relation to applications. Because the pandemic has demanded a new and great effort to public social services, those we've been destroying for years. During the past year and a half, they supervised and protected all the residences and in which there were large ones, an intervention was made. Integrated residences have already remained, which were later imitated by other autonomous communities. Galicia also had a rate at which residents survived much more than in the middle of Spain. An extraordinary edition of the SAD was held during the confinement that benefited 3,300 families. Access to Risk has been flexed, which has benefited 1,600 people. Social inclusion aid increased by 50% and aid was granted equivalent to 60,000 families benefiting from school food grants. 35,000 Greeks provided the basic card that allowed them to spend on essential goods of between 450 and 900 euros on a quarterly basis. Finally, and as we know a few days ago, in an independent report, Galicia was one of the only four autonomous communities in which social spending increased during the pandemic. That's Mr. Feijóo's box: spending more on social policies than we spent when it was needed. I could also talk about education. Galicia still has the best ratios in all directions. With the rapid vaccination of teachers, Galicia is the community that has the largest number of vaccinated teachers in Spain. And the fact that we were the third community in computers per student made it easier, along with the works that encouraged Junta in the centers to adapt them to the new needs, that the academic course marked by the pandemic was carried out with a lot of normality and that it wasn't done the worst that could be done to students, that was to drag a year of their lives. As I recalled at the beginning of my intervention, one year ago we all said that our intention was to give the best of ourselves, to contribute to getting out of the health, social and economic crisis that was being thrown at us. In that debate we commit ourselves to doing so responsibly, with political responsibility, putting the general interests before supporters; with moral responsibility, putting loyalty to the system to our ideological beliefs; and with intellectual responsibility, seeking analytical objectivity and having specialized knowledge. And we believe we have fulfilled that commitment. We have adopted and supported unpopular decisions, such as with the hostel, with which many of these unpopular measures are committed. We're looking at how many mermaids -- by the way, with very recent vigeous echoes, surprisingly -- that called for total openness, and without taking into account party interests. We did it to protect people's health, and I think we're not wrong. At all times, we act loyally to the system, respecting state legislation and the decisions taken by the Government; when those decisions do not seem appropriate to us, we rightly argue the reasons. So we did this, for example, when the vaccines started to be distributed according to the total population and not according to the risk population; we said it and it was rectified and we appreciate it being rectified. We also did so when we proposed reforming basic health legislation and we acted in our competition framework, because in that case it has not been rectified. We loyally assumed competence centralization and also decentralization after the first strike, despite the fact that there was no regulatory coverage or means to act. And we took part in conferences of presidents whose real codecision function was distorted and became a purely communicative format of unilateral decisions adopted by the Central Government. But we have maintained institutional loyalty and I think we're right. And we've always maintained intellectual responsibility. All health decisions were taken after consulting the thirty-five experts of the clinical committee. Its legal materialization has always been done by the hands of the Judiciary Services of the Board, which have not seen any of its rules annulled by Justice, except one that was later validated by the Supreme Court. The first actions in the economic field and in the design of tractor projects were carried out in collaboration with the Committee of Economic Experts, composed of seventeen university and business professors, who provided their knowledge selflessly. The educational decisions were taken with the participation of the thirty-five representatives of the management teams of the centres, the departments of guidance, of the Interuniversity Commission of Galicia, which were the members of the educational committee. And the reforms that were announced today for the Greek residency system are developing by the hand of a socio-sanitary committee, because we always act by the hands of the best Greek experts. And I think we're right. By the way, the same Greek experts who say the coupon is a ruin to Galicia, despite which, in the face of all academic and numerical evidence, the Block persists in that it would be the worst possible mistake for Galicia's financing. As in the Government, we in Parliament also work in the hands of experts and civil society. We've all agreed on a reactivation commission, we've agreed on the reports we're going to ask, we've made a project to dictate to me with more than four hundred proposals, we've proposed 104 transactions, you're just two of us, and we've also agreed to improve and incorporate 52 of your motions for resolutions into the majority's dictatorship project. However, the opposition groups voted against the dictatorship, although in committee the BNG had voted against only 28 % of the headings, in favour of another 28 % and abstained on the remaining 44 %, and despite the fact that the Socialist Party voted only 1% of the initiatives we accepted from it and abstained on everything else. Interestingly, after this, we were accused of applying the roll, but they didn't tell us, for example, that at the bottom of consensus we incorporated some of their requests, such as the increase in the SAD or support for the municipalities, or that it's impossible to deal with those, like the Block, who had presented to the consensus fund, which had already reserved EUR 115 million in budgets, amended by 400; the first amendment only doubled the consensus fund. It's very difficult to deal with these terms. In spite of that, I think we are right with that commission, and I think that, in addition, there is the answer for those who want to know what the plan for the revival and transformation of Galicia in the coming years, because it is prepared not only with the contributions of the parliamentary groups but also in many cases with the contributions of the experts who came to the House and, of course, with the help and reports that the Government has prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, this last example and others that I have exposed make us doubt that the opposition was up to circumstances over the past year, because in the end the only truth when we dialogue is that the two opposition groups tend to prefer objective data, despite the fact that they are evaluated by specialized knowledge. Dialogue, of course, is hard to get with who makes the diagnosis of the country we just heard. As far as political and moral responsibility is concerned, their behavior is unfortunate and tremendously predictable. The PSdeG always anticipates the biases of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the defense of the central government's actions in the face of any evidence which shows that it prejudices or discriminates against Galicia. And the Galego Nationalist Block always precedes its nationalist ideology to data and evidence, so that sovereignism and public intervention are presented as the balm of Fierabras, that all the priest, whatever the price of light or self-financing. Mrs. Pontón, listen to you that my party is ultra and that we make a health cord to a party that doesn't exist in Galicia, among other things thanks to the good doing of the People's Party, when you're always dealing with Bildu and the Republican Left, it's really good. [[Applause]] And since he's talking about health cordons, I propose one. I propose that we make a health cordon to Bildu, the Republican Left and what they represent: the breakdown of society's coexistence where their ideas are silent. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, Galicia is not big when it closes itself, Galicia becomes great when it opens up to the world; so it has always been and so it will continue to be. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as always, as much as they seem to disagree with each other, the thing at the bottom always ends the same: the PP is the enemy and, whenever they can, rule together, or with mutual support, it doesn't matter whether it's in a council, in the board or in the government of the nation. I started my speech by recalling that one year ago, in the investment debate, we all conjure up to work for a better Galicia. We, after this year -- I can say this year, hard, hard for all -- can say that we feel proud of a Galician who has overcome the pandemic, thanks to the immeasurable work of our health personnel, who integrates an exemplary health service, the doctors who have cared for the infirms, also those who have worked to recover primary care, as well as the workers and nursing workers, who have vaccinated against what the busy quantities of people on long days anticipated, without considering whether they were playing jobs or holidays. We are proud of a population that has made deaf ears to multiple voices that have questioned since the most absurd negationism the convenience of vaccination. We are proud of Galicia that has kept its educational centers open, all the teachers and teachers who have done their best to ensure that full generations of our childhood and youth have not lost the passage of their education, with harmful consequences for their personal and work future. We are proud of Galicia which has attended, in hospitals, in residences, in their homes, our greatest, of all professionals and family members who have cared eagerly, with infinite generosity, the most vulnerable, playing their own health. We are proud of Galicia that, despite all the difficulties, it has kept the productive pulse, proud of our workers and workers of the essential public and private services and also of the entrepreneurs and workers of the most affected sectors, who, like those in the housing, leisure or culture, have always collaborated with the authorities to take precedence over the security of citizens and who are now fighting for their return. We are, finally, proud of our autonomy, which, with President Feijóo in front, taught the rest of Spain a serious, coordinated, rational and responsible work. And that's also why, President, we're proud to be part of the parliamentary group you're leading. Proud, at last, of our country, of Galicia, which, as in other difficult moments of its history, knew to be in touch with circumstances. And that's why I end by reaffirming, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen -- as we did a year ago -- the commitment of this group, of the People's Group, to continue working with the Government to overcome the effects of the pandemic as soon as possible, and to, with unity, dialogue and loyalty to the country, build a better Galicia for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u27	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u28	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen who may be interested in this parliamentary session and who follow us through the public channels, ladies and gentlemen. I want to thank you on behalf of the Government -- and I understand that from the vast majority of Galician public employees -- the sense of regret made by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the spokesman for the Galician Nationalist Block for the unexpected death of Valeriano Martínez García. We thank him very much, because I think it's fair. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Knight, who is not -- I suppose they can pass on to you what I'm going to say, because I understand that the debate in the state of Autonomy still interests you -- do you think the year 2021 was the year of... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't dare ask because I'm not so curious. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I want to tell you that -- Mr. Knight is here, we can make a few seconds of waiting, with a double bottle of water --. [[Laughter]] I say, Mr. Caballero, that I thanked you for your sympathy, like that of Mrs. Pontón, regarding the unexpected death of Valeriano Martínez García. [[Laughter]] I think it's meaningful and, in addition, proportional and appropriate. [[Murmurs.]] He said that Mr. Caballero considered that the year 2021 was the year of vaccination, as if really the year of vaccination was just a slogan, as if vaccination was really something that had nothing to do with autonomous communities, with the health services of autonomous communities, as if it were really a privilege that the Central Government would transfer to the indigenous peoples of Spain and that it would send them vaccines regardless of whom they voted, as Mr. Sanchez said on television a few weeks ago. Mr. Knight, unfortunately, the vaccines were no matter that we could offer or thank the Government of Spain. What we're grateful for is that you haven't stopped the transfer of vaccines. Vaccines were bought at a shopping mall by the European Union, paid all of them with European public funds and transferred to autonomous communities. The only thing the central government has done in relation to vaccines, in addition to the labels in the boxes -- "Government of Spain" -- was to vaccinate the populations of Ceuta and Melilla, nothing more. When you say we were wrong because we thought the number of vaccines wasn't coming, I repeat: we had the capacity to vaccinate all Galicia in eight weeks; we haven't finished today and eleven months have passed. So when you realized that our positions were false and wrong and said that in the first quarter a very high percentage of population was already vaccinated, on March 31 it was exactly 6.5% of the population, being with Asturias the autonomous community that most people have vaccinated throughout this period. That's why it's very surprising that you come here to say that the Galician Health Service has done nothing and that all this is due to the vaccines that came providentially from the Government of Madrid. It's unfortunate, Your Honor. We are the most dispersed autonomous community in Spain, and yet we are the most vaccinating autonomous community in the short term. I think that deserves recognition for health professionals. And to think that this is as a result of the central government's gift, which neither paid nor bought them, is, at least, surprising. [[Applause]] Of course, Your Honor, the vaccines were not dealt properly, first, because they started to split up according to the population. I remember a constructive conversation with the Minister of Health where I moved him that if that was still the case, we would still have a very serious problem, because we couldn't accept that the vaccines had moved exclusively as a percentage of population and not as a percentage of the population vaccinated at any time. Galicia started to reach 5 percent of the vaccines when we were vaccinating older people and we were more than 8 percent of the total Spanish population over 80 years old and it didn't reach 5 percent. I want to thank the Minister of Health for changing and for sending the number of vaccines according to the population's age. I reiterate that Galicia has been one of the autonomous communities with fewer vaccines per population. And I repeat again -- and so the media refer to it -- that there were autonomous communities where vaccines expired and in Galicia we were waiting for vaccines week to week during the summer months. Therefore, Mr. Caballero, a bit of rigour when it comes to vaccines and a little of rigour when it comes to success, I don't know who but, of course, more than health professionals. Look, we manage the pandemic, we manage the pandemic with rigour and loyalty. We planted the Central Government to pass a pandemic law. They were unable for their pride to pass a pandemic law to Spain. Scientists and researchers were able to approve several vaccines during the same time that the Central Government was unable to manage the pandemic with a sufficient and adequate law. And what happened was, from trial to trial, from appeal, from authorization of the High Court by authorization, presidents who could not do things, other than they could do with similar situations, from the epidemiological point of view. That's the summary, Your Honor. And that's why it's very surprising -- said the spokesperson for the majority parliamentary group -- that, when we bring in this chamber a health law, what we hear is the absolutely irresponsible rejection of the Socialist Party and the BNG. Immediately, the second was the irresponsible appeal before the Constitutional Court. And the third was the lifting of the suspension of the law by the Constitutional Court and the use of it as it is currently being used by Galicia, which allows us to lift the health emergency. They are surprising, Your Honor, their jokes and their lack of respect to the Government and the Health Counsellor in relation to the certificate of safety, which was simply the transfer of the clinical committee of the Galician Health Service from the recommendations that the Government made to them simply by responsibility. And when in the Supreme Court the only autonomous community that obtains a judgement from the highest court to be able to issue the certificate covered in specific situations in specific territorial areas, it turns out that you are silent and do not ask a question that should be the question of everyone: why do we not use the certificate covered throughout Spain for so many months, and we would avoid millions and millions of euros of losses to the tourism sector, the hospitality sector and the service sector? [[Applause]] That's the question I think must be answered and not answered. [[Applause]] How can we say we manage the pandemic in favour of a political party? How can this be said simply from a political official? But do we really deserve to be told this? What do we manage the pandemic for a political interest and according to the interests of a party? Or is it a receipt that we have to accept and listen -- as Mrs. Pontón said -- that we suck at the pandemic? All the things that go wrong in Galicia are because of the government and the things that go well in Galicia it turns out that we can't even reflect them or describe them. It's a very surprising thing. What would happen, Mrs Pontón, if the mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants in Galicia had been the first in Spain? What would happen if mortality in Galician residences outside Spain's highest? What would happen if the percentage of population infected in Galicia had been 51% above the average in Spain? That, of course, the President of the Council of Galicia and his Government would be currently facing a motion of censure from the BNG. And does it seem reasonable to you that we cannot simply give the statistics published daily by the Ministry of Health? Or don't you know them? Should those statistics just hide them because Galicia is in the best positions? Is that your way of understanding a larger Galicia? Is that your way of understanding a larger Galician Health Service? Look, Mrs. Pontón, lessons about the biggest Galician, the right ones. As you can understand, the largest Galicia is the one who votes freely every four years and puts in the Government who considers it appropriate. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, we always hear the same. You'll understand, Mr. Knight, that I've been here for a few years -- just like Mrs. Pontón, one less -- and we've always heard the same thing. I could perfectly make your speech with some matter, of course, of factory you bring in and I'm not able to repeat it, but what if it surprises me is again to talk about the same mantras. We have the public health that the Greeks feel prouder; I'm not saying, the health barometer in the Ministry of Health. Every year, it measures the assessment of health in all autonomous communities in Spain; the highest percentage of health assessment we found in 2019, prepandemia, with 6.78 over 10. Despite the pandemic, we've improved the waiting lists and priority 1 of cancer and pathologies that concite people's lives, we're at least historical, for the exemplary behavior of health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 6,000 more people working in public health. How can we say, Mr. Knight and Mrs. Pontón, that there are now fewer resources, that there are less personnel in public health, when there are six thousand more people? What large Galicia do we want to build when we don't even accept the positive things Galicia did? There were 36,000 people in Sergas, today there are 42,000. Ladies and gentlemen, there have never been so many health services, no electronic prescription, no electronic history, no broader vaccination schedule, no home hospitalization, no telephone consultations, no renewed and expanded technology. And, ladies and gentlemen, isn't this true, Mr. Knight? There have never been such strong bets by the infrastructures. Is there any government in forty years of autonomy that had made all public hospitals, well young, well enlarged, well reformed, including the comarcas hospitals? Tell me to rule and in which legislation or legislation has been made. Today morning we asked a question that I think proceeds: what would happen if we kept the Vigo hospital stuck to the English Court -- which was how we received it -- without a square metre of soil to build it, without a euro by the Vigo Town Hall, neither on the ground nor electrically affected, nor in sanitation or supplies? What would happen in Vigo during the pandemic? What would happen in Lugo? Ladies and gentlemen, what would happen in Ourense if we didn't make a complete hospital building? What would happen in the Navy if we didn't strengthen the E.R.? What would happen in the Coruña if we didn't go from 900 square meters in the E.R. to 4500 square meters? What would happen in the country with the ICUs we found in 2009? Why don't we really talk about the country's public health? If we want to talk about Galicia at large, the first thing we have to do is talk about real Galicia and real Galicia, about Galicia that we can improve, that we can build, that we can, without any doubt, renew. But what joke is this, simply because it was done by a government of the People's Party, that this Galicia is a small Galician? They're wrong. The governments do not put them on by Members or by Members, by governments by people, by people who vote freely in elections. Ladies and gentlemen, if we buy respirators in February, more than 100 respirators, before declaring the state of alarm the Central Government, it will be because there were far more trained and informed epidemiologists in the Ministry of Health at the Health Council. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know what to laugh about. The epidemiological alert system is an exclusive competition from the Government of Spain and it has not worked, and it is known to everyone, it is known to everyone. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have 35 doctors, including nurses, with a college number, who have been working on the clinical committee all these months and still today. [[Applause]] We haven't met the central government's clinical committee yet. We're expanding our diagnostic capacity. The guest started in Vigo, across Spain. The pooling to make a sample began in Vigo, and they don't even recognize it as daily epidemiological samples. The saliva test was done in the Welsh pharmacies, and they don't recognize it either. But is this really fair? Is this reasonable? We have to say we're the worst. We have more budgets, more professionals, less expectations and we continue to improve our hospitals and health centers. When it is said that we have reduced the budget, Mr. Pontón, Mr. Knight, of health, when we arrived at the Government there were 3,600 million, today they exceed 4,600; that is, 26% more, that is, 1 billion euros more in public health. Why have we set up ninety new or renewed health centres since 2009 is said to be destroying primary care? How would it be then, with ninety fewer health centers, that were the ones you left? Ladies and gentlemen, when we do new hospitals, it turns out we're destroying health care? Yes, ladies. Turns out now to make new hospitals is to make bricks. That's another mantra I heard. Either buy Da Vinci robots or put on proton therapy, or CAPD drugs or essential tremor technologies, it turns out that this isn't about innovation, public health or the country. Look, Your Honor, we've got 83 million euros committed to the Mental Health Plan. That's our commitment, Mrs. Pontón. We've got over a hundred professionals hired. In the BNG's motion for a resolution on the Mental Health Plan, we are very interested in knowing exactly what it refers to. The primary care plan 2019-2021 we present it before the pandemic to the Technical Primary Care Council, with fifteen commissions created, which are studying the problems of primary care in Galicia; it is prepandemic. The General Directorate for Health Planning and Reform approved and constituted it before the pandemic. The 14 local health plans in the health areas are a proposal from these experts. Finally, the Ministry of Health agreed to sit down with all the health advisers in the country to talk about primary care. We've been asking for public job offers for two years. Mr. Knight, how can you say here, without a smile, that what we had to do was expand public job offers, when you prevent it every year? How can you say here that you have already proposed to increase the number of health-care facilities when it turns out that we have met the public job offer, and now that you have just announced that the public job offer will be extended to 120 % of the restorative rate and that it means 1,200 health-care facilities and we have the capacity to convene 3,000 health-care facilities? How can you come here to say this and nothing else? And he goes back to the scene and tries to get someone to really believe his proposals. That rigour of what should be a debate in the state of autonomy is a rigour that I believe, not in respect of the Government or its President, but Galicia, which we should consider. It is unreasonable, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing with health for the past 12 years, what we have heard for twelve years: the privatization of health, which doctors gave up for money, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party with campaigns with the Socialist Party's logo during the electoral campaigns saying that we would charge for each consultation or for each stay if the election was won by the People's Party. But, gentlemen, obviously people know a lot, a lot more than you, the 75 we're here, we believe. The closing date of September 68% of family doctors were dating in less than two days and 87% in less than four days. This is the data. 54 % of primary care consultations are already present. If you tell me if we're satisfied with this, I say no. But to make it obvious that this is the data is just to deceive the others. 44 health centres have been completed; they are at the disposal of the House. 17 reformed health centres. 29 health centres reformed with 50% with municipalities. 4 health centers in construction right now. 24 health centres in the budgets of the year 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all we're doing with primary care. That's why it's not fair that you move a structural problem to a government that you're doing is trying to fight even against the skills you don't have. Let's go, Mr. Caballero, make a great deal of money to find statistics that allow you to say what you want: that social services in Galicia are worse than ever. But reality is very eloquent and does nothing but deny it. We are in Spain's head in the number of seniors attending their home for Home Help Service, 24,000, 16 times more than when the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block were ruling. 94% of the dependents in Galicia enjoy a service or a help, 63874, four times as much as when it ruled the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. The same association of directors and managers you cited indicates that Galicia is the community with the most efficient social services. He stressed that spending more is not spending better. But if you want to talk about amounts, the Galician board has counted this year 2021 with 895 million euros in social policies, 90 percent more than when you ruled, with a similar budget. These are the realities, gentlemen. And certainly come here to say that dependence, social services, home help, dinner at home, the number of squares we create is a decrease and a break and a cut, simply, as president of the board, I say: will they really live in the country? will they really talk to people? Look, this the worst way you can manage is to make sure that defending the law of demographic impulse is to live in the worlds of Yupi. And I ask him: where do the seventy thousand families live who received the Welcome Card? Where do five hundred families live in rural areas that have children's homes or older homes and that have none before, because they are small villages, where do they not proceed by population criteria to make large residences or children's schools? Where do families live that carry their second sons and successors to free childhood schools from the start of the course, and which account for more than 10,000 families? Do you think all these are Yupis? Do you really think these people live in the worlds of Yupi? Lord Knight, all these families do not live in the worlds of Yupi; they live in villages, places, villages, municipalities. You don't know how to hide the shame by voting against the law of demographic impulse. We accepted 66% of the amendments from the Socialist Party, and voted against them, simply because Galicia could not be the first autonomous community to have the first demographic law in Spain, because it does not correspond to us, Your Honor. Gentlemen, you didn't want us to do anything different to meet the demographic challenge. You just wanted us to do nothing. But we will continue to legislate and Galicia has been a pioneer in the law of the demographic challenge and is first in free childhood education to 100% of children in 100% of Galician children's schools. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, 14,000 dependents attended to 10,800 million Bipartite budget twelve years ago; today, 63,500. 94 % is the dependency coverage ratio; in Spain, 85 %. This is the data. Against poverty. Does poverty happen in Galicia? And what about autonomous communities that have a lower percentage of poverty and those that have a higher percentage of poverty, it turns out that they should not be evaluated or contrasted, wouldn't it be that Mrs. Pontón gets upset? What do we compare ourselves to? Look, we have less poverty than the average of Spain. Do we have a percentage of homes with many difficulties to make it to the end of the month? Yes, 5.1 %, five points less than last year. Why? Because we're going out and we're reactivating the economy. To say we don't deal with social issues. The Single Social Agenda is committed to the Fegamp and to all NGOs dealing with poverty. And we're developing the country's second unique social agenda and it turns out we don't talk to NGOs, municipalities, associations... No, we don't talk. We certainly didn't talk, we agreed. And that's why it hurts me especially to come here with typical mantras year after year without even updating the data and not even talking about what I think we should talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have a better dependency than we had, if we have more priority to professional services than economic benefits, it is much cheaper to give you an economic benefit than to create a place in a residence, of course. Do you want this? Do you want quantitative or qualitative? I think we should go both ways. If the villages didn't have a single public square for the big one or for the kids when we arrived, just because they were villages, and now there are 500 squares, do you think it's not from receipt? They speak to the mayors of the BNG and the mayors of the Socialist Party, who urge these children's houses and the mayor's houses in their Town Councils. Let's keep working. I can assure you that this kind of criticism does not discourage us; on the contrary, they move us. Day centers, from 900 squares to 3,800. The alzeimer centers, from 234 squares to 520. Disabled places, Mrs. Pontón: 4,300; today, 5,500, 25% more. Tell Mrs. Pontón we don't create residence squares. No, we've only created 8,000 more residential squares, 44% more than in 2019. We multiply by four the day centers squares and 44% the residence squares. Turns out, if a place of residence is managed by Fademga, that's privatizing. If it's managed by Cogami, it's privatising. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it is managed by Caritas, it is privatised. All NGOs and the third sector must be closed simply because these gentlemen cannot manage health from the point of view of social services and care and care. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the BNG wants to state the country, and that's the new Galicia. In an interesting conversation I once had with a Cuban minister, he asked me what I thought about a thousand five hundred barbers in Cuba being officials. I'll move him that I thought he was crazy. He agreed with me, told me that it was very difficult for him to make a change within the Cuban public sector. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I don't come to compare one thing to another, but what I'm coming to do is put... - Yes, yes, I understand that the Socialist Party is laughing, but it's true --. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that all that disagrees with BNG's catechism is privatising. If we all followed BNG's catechism, we would all be saved, we would all have reached the promised land. But if you stay away from catechism, it turns out you're not a good German, you don't believe in public services and privatize public services. And this is very childish, really childish, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] It turns out, Mr. Caballero, that we have no economic policy, but we have less unemployment, we have more exports, more industrial production than the rest of Spain. Here the gross domestic product is diminished less than in the rest of Spain, unemployment is lower than in the rest of Spain, memberships are increased by 23,000 in the last 12 months and it turns out that we have no economic policy. Well, then, what will the rest of Spain be? I understand that this will not be critical of the President of the Government of Spain, because if economic ratios are better than those of the Government of the country, than those of the Government of Spain, it turns out that we do not have economic policy and the central government itself. We are the country where the world's GDP has been lowered after Argentina. Now he comes to teach here about economic policy. Exports to Spain are growing by 31%; in Galicia, by 23. The unemployment rate in Spain is 15. in Galicia, 12.4. The evolution of the unemployed is increasing above the average of Spain, and at the registered unemployment, Your Honor, we are currently with the data of September similar to the rest of Spain. That's why it's very surprising that unemployment has dropped in more than 57,600 people since we got to the government. Despite the crisis, that is, of a pandemic, of the closure of the entire economic sector in the country, we have 57,000 unemployed less than when we arrived in the Government, and the unemployment recorded increased with the Bipartite by 31% in the last year, and now it turns out that it decreases by 13% in the last year, including the pandemic year. But we have no economic policy, no. Economic policy consists of more unemployment, more debt and more deficit. Just the economic policy which no country of the European Union pursues. That's why I don't think it's fair to say we don't have economic politics. If the unemployment rate is three points below the Spanish average, if we are the seventh autonomous community with a lower rate of EPA unemployment -- take what you want: registered unemployment, EPA, take whatever you want -- ten communities in Spain have more EPA unemployment than Galicia. The youth unemployment rate, 33 %, undoubtedly very worrying; in Spain, 38.4. The data, Your Honor, of memberships to Social Security: 22,430 more affiliates in the last year, including the year of the pandemic. As regards wage developments, Galicia is the autonomous community where wages have increased the most, at a rate of 24%, exceeding the average rate of state rise, which has reached 6.7%, where wages have increased the most in terms of percentage, and is the fourth community where they have increased in quantitative terms. Therefore, Mr. Knight, to say that we have no economic policy, that I of economics know nothing, no, of course, lordship, we know nothing of economics, you know much of economics, there is no doubt, you have a great experience in managing public things. Your Honor, let's go back to the subject of housing. We made a social pact for housing in Galicia, signed by all. It has fifty measures, the goal is to mobilize in the coming years 1,100 million euros and reach 70,000 families, it is signed by all agents, architects, municipalities, real estate agents, lords, agents who talk about housing. You help municipalities for rehabilitation, you help individuals. One of the most serious problems we have at home is that it takes over nine months to get a municipal license to do a little internal reform. This is the problem, Your Honor, one of the most serious problems the country has. So it would be good to transparent it and put it on a transparency portal where my housing application is in every municipality, whether it's PP, BNG or PSOE; we'd make things very clear, and so we'd do something about the country, which I understand is what we're interested in. We have lowered the taxes for housing in 94% of the territory, which is rural territory, and I am therefore surprised that we make here a number of statements regarding housing. Tell Mrs. Pontón we made four houses in 2019. I have a press clipping where Mrs. Pontón arrives at Rianxo, draws her breast from the dwellings that were made there and turns out that they were nine and that she made them at Galicia's board. Of course, just like Rianxo is a council of the BNG, he thought it was the mayor's question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, Mrs Pontón, a bit of rigour if you want to talk about housing, which is a rigorous subject to speak with a minimum of training and information. Are we going to keep working on housing issues? Of course. About the state rent law. Who has the text? You? The Socialist Party is in favour, but no one knows the text. Does BNG have an opinion on the Housing Law? Your Honor, do you have an opinion on the Housing Law? Of course, if this is about intervening, if it's about stateing, there are obviously difficulties in agreeing with the national legal system. But in the struggle against the evictions, 2,200 families in Galicia were cared for to avoid the defeat, and most of the municipalities did not want to sign the agreements, and in many municipalities we remain alone, but we will continue to work on it. It's a classic already in the debates about CRTVG, a classic, of course. We, of course, did not assault the Board of Directors of CRTVG, Mr. Caballero, we did not cease to all, no. When he plays that change, he changes; if he touches the PSOE, he has a member, and if he doesn't, he doesn't, he's normal; when he touches the BNG, it's when he doesn't touch the PSOE; but that's not our fault. But TV is the leader in information. Everyone doesn't understand, you don't know, watch a TV because it forces the government to see it. Obviously, we force the Greeks to see CRTVG, and as the Greeks see CRTVG, we are in a non-democratic country -- which Mrs. Pontón would say --. [[Laughter]] This is very surprising to hear in a Western chamber, a free Europe, where people see the TV that hits them. And he's the absolute leader of information in Galicia. For it seems that I am sorry for you, that you don't like it; it seems that the Greeks like it; that they don't see it by their unconditional militants, it's not going to be those who see it. What is clear, Your Honor, is that -- I don't know what he said, but I'm sure something smart -- it's even the most visible thing among young people -- it's passed -- between the boys between 13 and 24 years old, with 10.9 percent quota, in this collective, in front of Telecinco; surprising, Your Honor, what are we going to do! if CRTVG people want to see it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we're still with innovation. 6,700 aids from 2014 to 2020. The Strategy of Smart Specialization, which came to the European Commissioner to Galicia, which is not a question of government propaganda; the European Commissioner for Innovation came to present Galicia to the Strategy of Smart Specialization. Result: mobilisation of 1,900 million euros. We're working on the new RIS to focus priorities between 2021 and 2027. I don't say so, INE says: investment in R & D has reached Galicia the highest figure in its entire statistical series, 627 million euros. They work more than 10,000 people in innovation, and since 2014, innovation in Galicia has grown almost twice as high as the rate of the Spanish average. This is the result, ladies and gentlemen. Look, we're not going to buy the youth vote. To say that only those young Spaniards who are 17 years old have the right to the cultural bond remind me of the conversation with the Cuban minister. But do you really only have the right to the cultural bond for girls and girls who are 17 years old in the country? Does this seem reasonable to you? It turns out, then, that we're going to have to take the transport bonus off the boys and girls who have more than 17. Because the important thing is to subsidize those who will vote in the next elections. Look, about the youth, Mr. Knight, should be a little more prudent. If you want to talk about youth, put free buses in the cities where you rule. We have it until 21 years. If you want to talk about youth, the opportunities of Carné Jupiter, who have received 400,000 young men and girls for free, I think it's a good idea, but don't give a bonus to people who haven't yet voted and are about to vote. Why? Why do we tell people a big troll, Mrs. Pontón? Why do we tell people that we're going up the water receipt if you know it's fake? You know it's false, you know it and you know it from Mr. Caballero, and besides, you ask for the mayors of the Bloc and the Socialist Party in my office, you try to properly manage the problem of water supply and sanitation, exclusive competition from the municipalities, which have no economic capacity to provide the service. We have invested 1,100 million euros in water supply and sanitation, and are we cutting the city hall money? More than 600 million euros in the integral stream improvement, we manage 28 municipal debuggers, which are not our competition. And all we want, Your Honor, is to help the municipalities that don't have the economic capacity to have drinking water and to have a debugger. We're not going to increase, but we're going to replace -- those municipalities that voluntarily want -- in no case, compulsory for anyone -- the receipts that charge them for new receipts that don't add up, but stay, and therefore the grandson is exactly the same. The wisdom that Mrs. Pontón says is a glimpse of the truth made in this parliament this afternoon. [[Applause]] That's why sometimes it's right to tell the truth, because, if we don't tell the truth, eventually people realize and people know how to distinguish between the truth and the lie; if they couldn't tell the truth, this would be a jungle, because it comes here, each one says what he wants and doesn't care, it goes to the stage and point. Look, you're talking about reforming the Statute. What is the model of the Socialist Party? Is that the model of the Catalan status? Is this the model of the Statue of Castile-A Mancha? Andalucía? What's the model? I have already shown myself in favour of updating the Statute of Self-Government, and of course the Constitution can be rereaded. But before the Statute and the Constitution are reformed, I believe that attitudes should be reformed. Mr. Knight, do you have the autonomy to reform the Statute without the visa and pleasure of the BNG? I don't know why they laughed, I witnessed that I didn't have it, not him, and not his predecessors. Therefore, when they have not even submitted a statutory text, because the important one is not the articulate but the explanatory statement, and if the Statute in the explanatory statement does not say Galicia is a nation, there will be no reform of the Statute. That's the result, Mr. Knight. [[Murmurs.]] As you will understand, that story I've seen. Well, look, Euskadi and Galicia didn't reform the Statute. Did something happen to the Basques and the Greeks? Or do we really have criteria and personality? I'm on the second, of course. We can make statutes with all kinds of clauses, but the truth is, if we're serious about the basic institutional standard, we should, in any case, take this matter seriously and not just play a slogan and propose some question -- well -- to put it in the face. Look, compared to Afghanistan, I didn't do it, made it a central government minister, not me. No, Your Honor, you should read exactly what I said; perhaps you didn't even know what the Minister of Equality said, which is normal, because it's part of the Government bis of the Government of Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if, by the way, you want to talk about equality offices, man!, the only county where you closed an equal office is the socialist council of Ponte Caldelas, governed by the Socialist Party. Of course, he wanted to close it unilaterally and was forced to reopen it by court order. This is the data, Your Honor. Alcohol, Meirama, The Bridges, Once, Dresses, guilt of PP. But will it be a joke, will it be a joke? With the Popular Party in Madrid and here Meirama, Vestas, Alcoa, Ence and The Bridges were open. What's changed? [[Murmurs.]] The Government of the People's Party in Galicia or the Government in Madrid? And it turns out that we, Your Honor, have to be silent, and yet we have to assume that responsibility is what it has no responsibility at all, and those who have responsibility still above us lay the blame for their industrial closures, which is clearly an industrial conversion, the second that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party does in Galicia. We know how they did the first and now they're doing the second. [[Applause]] Why, Mr. Caballero, the Asturian Socialists want Navia and the Greek Socialists don't want Ence? Why do Asturian Socialists want Ence in Navia and the Greek Socialists don't want Ence in Galicia? It fits everything, doesn't it? If we close Ence, we expand Navia, and, as we expand Navia, we increase the industry in Asturias, which seems very good to me; if I were asturian, I would be in favour. [[Murmurs.]] But even above coming here, with the nationalists' wits, to bless this nonsense, you'll understand that you won't tell me. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you can't make hasty decisions. There's one thing very surprising: I've never seen him instruct the state's lawyer to withdraw from a price, never. I had state lawyers in Health, in Mail. Of course, I can't give an instruction to the General Legal Counsel of Galicia to withdraw from a price if the Juridical Counsel wishes to appeal; and, if I do, I assume responsibility. Why did they withdraw from the price of Ence? Why did Counselman withdraw from the State of the Price of Ence? Did the file of the grant of Ence not have a favorable report from the State Counsel? What state lawyer was really defending the state? Ladies and gentlemen, does the State Counsel's report in favour of the granting of Ence and now changes the Government and the Government tell the State Counsel who does not defend the report in the file? [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u29	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u30	...there's a sentence because the state's lawyer has retired and gone to demand... Oh, no, well, you don't care. [[Murmurs.]] But if the important thing isn't what you say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u32	Tell them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u33	Quiet, quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u34	Tell him the bipartisan of the opposition to the 5,000 people who are affected by the decision of Ence. Tell them! There's no problem, you're still there. We, of course, are not going, within our responsibilities, to close this because it is. Look, if the Government of Spain has not transferred the money to the municipalities during the pandemic, it is not the responsibility of the president of the Union. If you have not been able within the Socialist Party to organize yourself, it is not the responsibility of the autonomous communities. I think you should accept it, because now it turns out that we are also responsible for the Central Government not transmitting a potato to the Spanish municipalities -- and therefore the Greeks -- to manage the pandemic. This is also because of the Galician Union. Well, here are really summaries of the proposals I've heard. Just like AP-9. Here comes the PSOE and says that this is due to him, the BNG says it's due to him; and the question that we look at the Greeks is: but why don't we really talk about AP-9? Mrs. Pontón, you voted against the transfer of AP-9, I know it bothers you, BNG whispers, I know it bothers you, but it's reality. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that I was there, in the opposition, you were in the government and they voted "no" to the AP-9 transfer. [[Murmurs.]] I objected to the fact that we had squandered 400 million euros from the Board budget to lower 50 % at the rate and raise the full fee, 50 % at the rate and 50 % at the central government, at Barcala and Rande. And you've voted in favour of the money of the Greeks to reduce a fee of a state highway, and come here to respond! But were you not voting in favour of that joke that cost the Greeks 400 million euros and with these 400 million euros we finished the highway off the coast of Death, opened up the bus to Noia and made the entire bus between Lugo and Sarria? --that you're from there, by the way --. You should be a little more serious and not come to lecture here on AP-9. I said it was a crazy to fund with the toll of the Greeks the expansion of AP-9 on the Rande Bridge and a new lane on the Santiago Circle, and you were there doing it... so, gentlemen, what lessons are we talking about? [[Murmurs.]] Turns out that BNG now manages to reduce the fares of the highway. I have to say that the only one who spoke seriously of this was Minister Abbalos; I'm sorry where he went to stop. But the truth and the truth is, it was the only one who spoke seriously, because, of course, help from the BNG I didn't have any. Now yes, now he says we never go down the beaches. Well, it's not true either, because the toll between Pontevedra and Vigo did fall during the time of President Rajoy and Minister Pastor; that's also a truth; so now the toll between Pontevedra and Vigo is not reduced, because it was already reduced. Why do we tell lies? If it's not necessary, if we know everything that happens. We are in a democratic society where we have information and can say it without fear. When we make mistakes, they warn us, but coming here with false data is a pity. No, Mrs. Pontón, we are not in the debate of the state of the nation; the debate of the state of the nation has not been held for seven years; we are in the debate of the state of autonomy, which we do every year. That's exactly what we're on. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't put up any medals, the medals we've delivered them to in the last two years. In 2020, health professionals who fought against covid and in 2021 to health and non-health professionals who made vaccination possible. By the way, we missed you during that delivery of the Galician medal, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, all this time we've been sharing you and I in the German Parliament have never heard you say that the Government of Galicia has been right at all, never! We do everything wrong, we never succeed when we're wrong. He's been saying everything in Galicia is bad, decades insisting on the harm we've all done and the good we'd go with the BNG. After seventeen years in Parliament I no longer aspire to tell me if we do something right; as you will understand, I would be surprised; man! but I would like you to say: look, this is going well in Galicia. The pandemic was better managed -- you who like comparisons with nations and states -- than in most nations and states of the world. We had a health service and health professionals who were properly managing it. A little respect for them, for the clinical committee, Mrs Pontón; a little respect for the clinical committee. A little respect for history, when you and Mr. Caballero refused to make elections at the time when the clinical committee thought it was the right time. Even Mr. Knight proposed that I make elections in the fall, just in a huge pandemic wave. A little respect for history and a little respect for what happened in Galicia last year! [[Applause]] Now, Mrs Pontón, I believe that some lesson should be drawn from you as the most veteran Member in these seats -- I say honourable Member and not Member -- ; the most veteran Member is our chair, the most veteran Member is you. You want to present yourself as a successful option; it's legitimate, but the numbers sing. When you entered Parliament, the People's Party had 41 seats and now -- 17 years later -- the People's Party has 42 seats. That is, Your Honor, the summary of your successful management. [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that as Greeks we are disturbed that there are people in the name of Galicia disregarding what the fishermen, the gainers, the health care workers, the workers do. You came here to say that it was a disaster the subject of fishing, that we have lost quotas, that we have lost money... since 2009 the quota in Galicia has increased by 75,000 tons and I suppose an increase of more than 200 million euros of billing. If you ask me if I'm completely satisfied, I'll tell you not; but what I'm not going to say is that we've diminished quotas and billing, because it's fake. Look, in 2017 we beat the historical record and broke the roof of the 500 million euros of revenue from the first sale in length; that's the result. And that's why I'm surprised you're coming here to say that the subject of fishing is in obvious deterioration. We recovered 15 million square meters for shellfish, and it turns out that the population occupied by extractive fishing in Galicia increased by 7% between, for example, 2015 and 2019. The same would read on the rural subject. I don't know how many farms they've closed down and we're in a lunatic, a glove disaster both in meat and milk, and it turns out we've never produced as much meat and as much milk as ever in history. Never! Never, Your Honor. [[Applause]] We haven't done anything in the agricultural sector. We made new laws to improve and enhance agriculture: the Law of improvement of agricultural structure, the Law of mountains, the Law of land mobility, the Law of land recovery; by the way, with nationalist solvents who helped us draft it. Why don't you talk to them? Why don't you talk to them, you know more than you do? [[Murmurs.]] That's probably why they're not in the BNG anymore. Look, in Galicia, no taxes are paid in rural areas; zero taxes are paid to purchase or to exchange or to alienate. We incorporated 3,800 young people in rural areas, expanded the agricultural industry, improved the quality of life in rural areas. There are more industries in the countryside, we created a forest industry, we created an aeronautics, there are tractor projects, a future textile fiber plant... and you tell me we don't do anything about the countryside? The question is, what did you do? Agriforest polygons, model villages, joint management groupings. Look, what happened is 800 individual farms have become part of societies. What happened is that they became cooperatives, like Aira or Clun. What happened, Your Honor, is that we are at the top of the history of milk production, we are the eighth region of all of Europe of milk production, we are located more than half of the dairy farms throughout Spain and we produce 40% of Spain's milk. Galicia produced in 2020 nearly 2.9 million tons of milk, 4 % more than in 2019 and 6 % more than in 2018; and we have 6,600 livestock, which account for 800 million euros. Do you know this as well as I do? Why deny it? I understand you're missing it, but saying that this is fake is just not telling the truth. Your Honor, I would like, before finishing the legislation, to understand exactly what your proposal for the Greek electric tariff, in addition to a slogan. Because what legal basis does it have? What laws do you want to change nationally to get to it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or is it what you want to pass a law here, to be well and to go through it in the Constitutional and suspend it in fifteen minutes? What application criteria will be implemented? What real savings did you expect? What happens in a year with little wind or little water? How much does electricity cost us from Galician power stations? It proposes an exclusive compensation for Galicia and a price model change for everyone. Here he comes, he says this, and that's it. By the way, why don't we support the intensive industry? Why don't we get back the 200 million euros we had for the hyper-electrointensive industry? That is indeed an electric fare to keep Alcoa's jobs and not to take her hair off, as they took it to Iberian Alu de la Coruña. No, I didn't, I reported it, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I reported it from the beginning, because I knew that sale was a fraudulent sale. [[Murmurs.]] From the beginning. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm sending it to the company committee and I'm testifying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why, Mrs. Pontón, when you know what your proposal is, we'd like to. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have a lot of friends in power companies. Well it must be; but, of course, those who had friends were you: 9 files in four years, 97,000 euros of fines; we, 3,200 files, 26 million euros of fines. Really, Your Honor, I don't understand very well what friendship is all about. Friendship consists of not asking the cannon to power companies when they install wind farms in the country, which is what you did when you were in the government; but here they pay the cannon, Your Honor. And that's why we have a proposal to lower the price of light, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Spain is raising EUR 2.4 billion in CO2 emissions. Why? Why don't we put those emissions in favour of consumers? Before there was no tax on CO2 emissions. The tonne of CO2 was an absolutely permissible ton from the tax point of view and now it turns out to rise to the ton of CO2 emissions. It certainly goes up as a European Union decision, but in Germany there are 39 thermal power stations and in Spain it wants to end all, including the largest and most evolved, which is The Bridges. Why don't we talk, Mrs. Pontón, about big Galicia, really? Look, activate the Spanish Reserve Fund to ensure the electro-intensives why don't you do it? Why don't you immediately call the power stations for renewable energy? And why don't we establish demand management mechanisms? We've done this before. I've been here for twelve years -- you said it -- almost thirteen. We've kept Alcoa for all these years, until a year and a half ago. Why? What's changed? What's changed? Your partner's energy policy, perhaps? Why don't you bring a proposal together with your partner to see if this is really going seriously or is it just a nationalist proposal to distinguish itself from socialists? Look, you know we're worried about Greek, but if we don't focus directly on the problem of Greek, we're just putting the language on each of us. If you want to speak the language seriously, let's talk. Let's talk to the Royal Language Academy, talk to the educational world, talk to you, Your Honor. We are the first autonomous community in oral comprehension -- yes -- and written understanding. Yes, yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] That's what any objective study says about it. We approved the Plan to dynamize the Greek language in the economic fabric. We approved the domain.gal. The Greek language is taught in more than 40 universities. We made a memorandum of understanding with the Camões Institute. We approach the Lusophone culture unprecedentedly by approving and developing the Peace Andrade Law. The IGE points out that they can speak English more today in 2018 -- the latest IGE statistics -- than in 2013. In 2013 87 % of the population; in 2018, one more point. It understands written English, much or enough, in 2013 to 84,8 %; in 2018, above 85 %. They always speak German or more than Spanish in 2013, 51 %; in 2018, 52,3 %. This is the result. What's the problem? You, who quoted the Royal Academy. The problem is not teaching, the problem is what happens after teaching. If we focus on the problem in teaching, we're fooling everyone, and if we really want to talk about the problem of Greek, we have to talk about what happens with the drop-out of young fellows outside the classrooms, but not within the classrooms, which is another one of the nationalist mantras that we have to endure year after year. [[Applause]] When we approve the amendments to the English-language audiovisual bill unanimously, so as not to discriminate against Greek, when we present the We project, which is undoubtedly the most ambitious project made since the Language Standardization Act of 1993, the most ambitious one, why does BNG not aim, Mrs. Pontón? Why is it a People's Party proposal? Don't worry, it's the University of Santiago, they're independent teachers. Why don't you join the project We, so that the Greek is in all the technological insights and really isn't lost in the globalized world in which we are? That's the problem, gentlemen. The problem is not German in school, the problem is Greek out of school and in society. Come here and say that people go, another mantra, Mrs. Pontón. But don't you realize he's been talking about this for 17 years? And it turns out that since 2009, 72,000 people have increased the number they came in front of them. Why don't you say that? And when we're talking about youth, it's also positive since the year 2009, and they've entered Galicia 16,000 more than they went out, boys between 16 and 34 years old. The truth is, sometimes I don't think it's worth it, but, while I'm president, I'm not going to hide the reality of the country, because otherwise I'm not. But why don't you seriously say that the problem with Galicia is a birth problem, that deaths exceed double that of births? Why do they blame the government? Is it because of a PP government? Really, do you think that's the way it is? Well, go on, go on, gentlemen, missing people, missing the truth, not taking the bull by the horns and saying what they want. The comarcas hospitals. You know perfectly well that there are comarcal hospitals with new service portfolios that didn't exist before. He knows perfectly well that we need more squares to be able to offer specialists, who prefer to work in cities, in large hospitals, than in comarcas hospitals. And they know it, and they know it perfectly, but they don't care. They know that there are oncohematologic consultations in comarcal hospitals that there were not, they know that there are dialysis processes in comarcal hospitals that they didn't have, they know perfectly well that we have difficulties with traumatologists, anesthetists, and that's why we need more traumatologists and anesthetists. They know perfectly well that this happens in all Spanish hospitals, but they don't care. The important thing is to disregard Galician health and try to say that Galicia has no health as we would like. Look, ladies, the price of light. But, Mrs. Pontón, I fully understand that the BNG has a bad conscience, being a partner of the Socialist Party, with the price of light, and a bad conscience that requires them to overact. But it's very hard to have the Socialist Party as a partner and talk about the price of light from the other side of society -- of political society I mean --. I understand it would be very hard to have to take your role. And that's why he comes here with a series of proposals. What is the energy model of the Galician Nationalist Block? What is it? Let's see if we can tell us tomorrow. Are you against thermals? Yes or no? Are they against the wind? Yes or no? Are you against the marine wind? Yes or no? Are they against hydroelectric power stations? Yes or no? Those are the questions. Look, you insist on an idea about the biggest ones: the idea that senior residences and all their workers are public. I talked about humanization, technology, new architectural systems and workers as well. We increased the employee template by 5%. All that happens to you is to charge against the private initiative. Anyone who mounts a senior residence in Galicia is suspicious. Well, when we go to the reality of things, it's 46% of the municipalities where BNG governs have the service of aid in the privatized home, and nevertheless municipalities where the PP governs, 29%. When the BNG ruled in the Union, he signed contracts to outsource the residences of Larax, Quiroga, Viana do Bolo, Castro de Rey and Bande. Well, don't worry, if it's on the papers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look -- I'm going to finish -- Mrs. Pontón, I think there are several people in the UPG interested in this question that I'm going to ask you. Do you see how many people are interested in the question? [[Murmurs.]] What do you think of Galicia's independence? [[Murmurs.]] Independence yes or no independence? [[Laughter]] Autonomy or independence? What do you think, Mrs. Pontón? Sovereignty? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, someone answered but you're not Mrs. Pontón. Let Mrs. Pontón speak, who is in charge at the moment. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I understand that everyone has the right to change their mind, and you can stop applauding when someone shouts, "Galice, independence." Yes, they have every right to deny the high priests of the UPG, who dubbed it up there, no doubt. We've seen more amazing metamorphosis in this chamber, no doubt about it. [[Laughter]] We remember exactly who I'm talking about. Well, what you have no right to do is to hide your true intentions from the Greeks. [[Laughter]] Mr. Knight said something I noted, which I thought was relevant: they are not in favour of the model of independence. He said it and I appreciate it. He also said that he would support us in the financing model, both to reflect on dispersion, aging and multilaterality, which I also thank him for. And he also said he agreed on what we did on the subject of children's schools. It's a shame you don't do it in the Government of Spain, because this is because an autonomous community has, without competence, to fund child education 100% free; ladies and gentlemen, in Spain it's not compulsory education; I don't know why they put their hands on it; if it was compulsory, it was already funded. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mrs. Pontón, a great deal of independence, but who signs nationalist office payrolls are the socialist leaders who rule in deputies and cities. That's the independence you're talking about. [[Applause]] Look, there are two coalitions in Galicia. The first is the form of reformist Welshism with a vast majority of the Greeks and the second is that of the BNG and the Socialist Party. And then the first one is explicit. We'll go to the polls to rule, if we win the elections. We know that still winning the elections will not let us rule, and that's why we come to the polls to get most of them out, that you can't block. And you have a second coalition trying to hide. They go on different posters, with apparently different programs, but then they rule together. So I don't really know who to address. Well, I'm addressing those who are going to me, as is natural, and it's an honor for me to be able to address you, especially to you, to see you worried about your public debt. And that's a break against the basic principles of the UPG. Now you're worried about public debt, when it turns out that every time there's a budget you make an amendment to increase public debt. But, Mrs. Pontón, 17 years here you, Mr. Santalices, me and some other, really don't think we have any memory? But if we have many afternoons of state debates of the Autonomy, Mrs Pontón; we have many assumptions spoken, discussed, discussed, approved jointly or otherwise. There is always an amendment to increase public debt, public debt is a holiness of its ideology, and now it turns out that Galicia is told to increase public debt but it is not told that it is the autonomous community that has less increased public debt, nor is it told that when we get to government it was the fourth most public debt community and today it is the fourth community with less public debt. It's not said, it's just to hide it. [[Applause]] Why? Because it's a good indicator of Galicia. There is a very clear proposal from the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group: are you going to refuse to go on lists with Bildu or not? The Greeks have a right to know, I don't know why they laugh. [[Murmurs.]] Are you going to give up or not? Look, you -- I didn't see him, they told me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Same thing, if I'm wrong, I'm rectified right away --. You provided the institute folder with images from Pujol and Ibarretxe. Isn't that true? [[Laughter]] Well, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it's not true, I'll take it back. If that's true, it would be good if you explained it, since you really like this from the images. But at last, I will certainly not cover the folder either with Pujol or with Ibarretxe or with Rufian or Otegi, I can assure you. I can meet people who work for Galicia, that's right. But obviously, gentlemen, I'm not going to do what others preach and not do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But it bothers them so much? But do you mind talking to them so much... look, I agree, Mrs. Pontón, that Galicia is a great country and you're a great admirer of Galicia, except when you vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have a problem with the perception of dimension. [[Murmurs.]] What is greater is Galicia's support for the People's Parliamentary Group and what is smaller is Galicia's support for the opposition groups. That's the biggest, which is democracy. And if you ever won the election, you'd be the first to congratulate them, of course. You want to make Galicia bigger, but did the recipes of Catalan independentists make Catalonia bigger? Or is Catalonia more childish, there are fewer freedoms, there are more discussions, more fractures, even between families and friends? Is that what we want here? Do families stop talking, friends stop talking, just because there are independentists and not independentists? The independenceists in favor of Galicia and those who are not against it? Is that your model? I'm in favour of you putting Jacob in value now; I'm glad he left the cracking campaign with Jacob without effect. Why do we always have to copy what others do? What is your language model?, the one in Catalonia? The linguistic model is that of Catalonia, because they admit it without repair: yes, we want the linguistic model of Catalonia; we do not. And it's okay. But what is your model? Why don't they stop imposing on us the way we have to think, the way we have to talk, the way we have to say? I, of course, Mrs. Pontón, took very good note of your moderation lessons. I think you have a great authority to speak of moderation in Greek politics. I reiterate again: from this BNG that went on the European lists with PNV and ICU, now we have a BNG that goes on the European lists with Left and Bildu. That is undoubtedly an image of moderation in Greek nationalism. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, there are many things we don't agree on; in love with Galicia I think so. Now, what's your model? I don't care if I study it. They speak clearly: do you want a Greek process?, do you want a referendum like that of Catalonia? Well, they don't even practice their own nationalism, it's import nationalism. What the Catalans do, we copy it; what the Bildu Basques do, we copy it; now what the PNV Basques do, we don't copy it, we first copy it. And we really want to be guided to know what nationalists want. We know what they think. For you, it's old-fashioned and anti-democratic everything that doesn't vote for the BNG. But we don't see anything, no. We don't see the electric fare, we don't see the model of concerts, we don't see the 200 million euros for primary. Why? Because the Greek electric tariff doesn't exist anywhere, because the concert would be to lose -- tell the economists of the whole ideology and academic extract -- about a billion euros a year, and we can't veto the 200 million for primary care because we've already put them in. Look: we don't see anything, we have a different model, a model that is mostly supported over and over again. So we don't look at BNG's measurements. BNG's measurements are probably seen by the Greeks in the polls. That's why we're here having a debate about the state of autonomy from the Government, and you're from the opposition. I believe that the democratic positions of each one are perfect, from the rigor, from the retreat, of course, but from some uncomfortable simply by bringing data that this forum does not deserve, because they do not support a minimum of rigor with the accounts and the data that the country lives. Well, today, we present to the House a balance -- Professor Puy said -- a balance of what we've done, but above all, we present a project. At the blue benches of this parliament there is a great team, probably the most experienced Government in all of Spain. And behind the blue benches there are a lot more people working, trying to sort and match accounts, trying to build a new health care, trying to reduce half the school dropout, trying -- as we did -- a pact with the principals. It turns out that with the principals we agreed, and with the BNG and the PSOE we didn't deal with universities? I agree with the principals. But we're trying to manage the present, we're trying to design the future, and we're trying to get their hands free to work around Galicia. Mr. Knight, Mrs. Pontón, you can't think of the future of Galicia when its only horizon is not Galicia, but other horizons, which are perfectly legitimate. I think Parliament is the home that represents all the Greeks, not any political scenario. Internal politics takes place outside this forum; you have many occasions to do it. Here we've come to talk about Galicia, about the challenges Galicia has, about the challenges of public health, about making 100 percent of children's schools free, about presenting a strategic plan for all Galicia until 2030, about lowering taxes... Yes, Mr. Knight, remember that when the Socialist Party suppressed the property tax, it was left-handed to lower taxes. Don't you remember? I remember him very clearly. Now it turns out that lowering property tax is an ultra-liberal policy, and before it was left-handed, not lowering it, but suppressing it. Very surprising, Mr. Knight. I see you're studying fiscal policy as far as you're concerned. Everything you do is right. Even if we sometimes do something that you do we're wrong. You have the authorship of good and we have the authorship of evil. [[Laughter]] Of course, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I come here to talk about Galicia. And don't think your role is to attack me. Don't think what it's like to tell you what you want to hear from the Greeks who vote for you. No, your role today is to represent with responsibility the proposals of how Galicia can improve. Of course, if you want to add up, we still have the last intervention and the motions for resolutions. We have come to this debate to add. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u35	Thank you, President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to guarantee this restraint that you say you have the People's Party. I mean, because we're totally respectful and, of course, we regret the staff and the politician that a public servant like Valeriano is not here with us. And it doesn't seem to us to receive that while we're in this rostrum the official roof of the People's Party is setting up a totalitarian policy to tell us what we have to do at every moment and trying to put up a policy of confrontation against those who, of course, have all sensitivity, all about their political and, no doubt, personal trajectory. [[Applause]] There were other colleagues in the House, Mr President, who also left us, like comrade Isaura, of our parliamentary group, when he stopped being with us, on the same day parliamentary committees were kept and all Parliament's work was maintained. When I got a plan, we talked about it, we talked about it, and we were open to looking for a different date, and it was PP that decided. I understand that there are different perspectives, but do not make demagogy or populism, or totalitarian approaches to believe that we have to do everything the PP tells us through the official Twitter network of the People's Party. I want to ask you, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] Getting into the issues of the debates, I think we've been listening, Mr Feijóo, three and a half hours; it's not a little bit, it could be more, because time is unlimited for the president. But it's true that after three and a half hours, I wonder what the Galician and the Galician people who follow us today on Galician TV have been listening to them for the greatest assurance, the greatest calm, or what proposals there are since the Galician Union that they guarantee that the reactivation will have possibilities and that you think about people. I'd rather find a president of the Galician Union doing some intervention thinking about the People's Party's key, in the key of discrediting the political forces of the opposition, without any country's or no proposals. You, Mr. Feijóo, have ideology -- of course you have ideology! He has the conservative ideology of the People's Party. You pose a series of responses that show the inaction, that show the lack of commitment to the public and that also show that you want to escape from your responsibilities. That you come to talk about false data, about twisting the evidence, searching for hidden visions is an exercise of unprecedented political filibusterism and cynicism. Because you're the example of the slightest rigor, of counting stories, of having a generic speech in which you know how to look for a partial picture of reality to try to hide what's happening in the country in so many areas. Of course you do things. How will a Government of Galicia not do things that you spend or invest more than 10 billion euros a year, which you have invested in Galicia, in updated terms, over 200 billion euros since you are President of the Union? Of course they do things! What we're seeing is that despite everything you spend, the Government of the Union lacks guidance, proposals, measures to get Galicia to jump forward. You describe a happy Arcadia in which anyone who hears it thinks Galicia is the fourth most advanced, most competitive and in a better situation. And the data doesn't show that. The reality of the Greeks doesn't show that. How are you going to defend a law of demographic impulse that does not imply any major change or solution to such a serious problem for Galicia? How dare you say here that the problem is that there are no births, and it stays so wide? The question of a great deal of analysis of the demographic situation: how there are no births, because there is a demographic problem; it is not our business, we cannot do it! I believe, Mr. Feijóo, that you must take the reactivation seriously, that you must take Galicia seriously. In that field, the data you give is all partial and not accurate. You are critical that the Government increases the rate of replacement of health professionals to 120 % annually, with Rajoy increasing 10%; 120 versus 10, Socialist Party against the People's Party, progress against conservatives. [[Applause]] You dare speak here on Galician TV. But don't you realize that you use it discreetly and manipulate Galician TV, which at the moment has a general director who is out of order, who doesn't carry out an information council that controls information and gives impartiality, that you use public media in the service of the People's Party? But if all the Greeks know it, even those who vote for it, who all know the reality of what is happening. When we talk to him about industrial crises, he says: I don't have any responsibility. That's the problem. When we talk about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, the President of the Union tells us that he has no responsibility; that it is the same as having President who has no president, who does not ask you to account, to ask the Government of Spain, to ask them to the councils, to whoever. That's not serious, it's not a way to build Galicia, it's not a way to boost reactivation. Of course, in addition, you always try to support the question of the majority of the election, and most give them legitimacy, the responsibility of government. But the contrast of public policies and the debate about what you do is a necessary exercise of democracy that any government must also attend to in the corresponding parliament. So, Mr. Feijóo, what I want to tell you is that you have to take a worksheet for Galicia, which you are not doing, that you have to mark a new pattern and a new challenge for Galicia in which we live. You come here and you do the outrage: I've been saying for many years, what you're saying to me, I've never heard anything like it, the BNG is still the same and so, the Socialist Party depends on Madrid. But do you not understand that there are thousands of families waiting for the Board to make industrial proposals, support the rural environment, support public health, support social services and give them answers? [[Applause]] It's just that you, Mr. Feijóo, when he talks about vaccines, of course he deceives the situation. It's just that you said last October, a year ago, that there would be no vaccines in Galicia at least until the second quarter, which were grandoloquent ads. And I mean, on June 30, 50% of the Greeks were already with a dose or two of the vaccine. And in March of this year you said: it's going to be very difficult to fulfill 70% immunity in the summer; at the moment, it's not possible, they don't send us vaccines. And on the 10th of August, the councilman said to attack: it's not from receipt of the distribution of vaccines; they're ruining the operation of the vaccines. Then he rectified. And, of course, vaccines have to be paid! Don't you know, Mr. Feijó? What do you think vaccines aren't paid? That's a fact you just mentioned here. But is it such ignorance that you have to deny evidence that emerges from the general budgets of the state and European funds? Three thousand four hundred million euros went out last year, 2,828 million euros, 1,400 from the Government, 1,300 European funds, to buy vaccines. How do you say no one pays the vaccines, which have no cost? That's the reality. And there was a vaccination strategy that worked despite the conflicts that the People's Party has set in its strategy of confrontation, of disloyalty, of lack of cooperation. And that's why I tell you that you have put your role as President of the Union at the disposal of the People's Party, that you have acted like a Casado bis and that today in this debate has come to pose a line of conflict with the Government of Spain in so many areas. And do you deny the problems of social policies? But if I did degrade ten quantified figures in the morning that show that in Galicia there is a deficit and a comparative delay in so many areas of social policy, that we have less professionals in social services in Galicia per inhabitant with respect to what is in Spain, that we are in line for investments by dependent people, that there are less residential public funding squares by older people, than coverage of the home care service receives far fewer people in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. Stop telling me an idyllic reality that doesn't fit the country. And I wanted to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that politics must be done from time to time also for youth, because there are about 300 thousand young Greeks between 15 and 34 years of age who are not emancipated. 67% of that population does not have the ability to live for themselves in an emancipation situation; it's the worst data we've ever had. Therefore, you should support that the Government of Spain proposes a plan to promote and assist the renter for young people and girls, which will give 250 euros of help to those young people between the ages of 18 and 34 who are billionaires or have an annual income of up to 23,000 euros. It's therefore time to give answers and let it be hidden in the strategy of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you're conservative, and you don't like the public, you don't like public health, you don't like public education. It's your idea! It's the ideology the People's Party has! That's why you're flagging the cuts. That's why they're flagging that debt has to be controlled. That's why when they had to manage economic policy in another crisis they did just the opposite of what we're doing now, which is possible, to help people when worse is happening. So even though the wolf was laying sheep's skin, he was still a wolf talking about public services, talking about public health, talking about public education. [[Applause]] Because if you believed in the public and believed in public services they wouldn't be in the People's Party, they might be in the Socialist Party, but they don't want to be in that political line. They assume what they represent ideologically and what they do and what they have to do. Of course, they now have a lot of public funds to be able to spend. Of course there are keynesian policies, spending policies that give them the possibility to invest much more, because there is a new paradigm and a new consensus, marked by a progressive environment in Spain and Europe that is allowing it. An agreement with the President of the Government has succeeded in bringing to Spain twice as much percentage in European funds as we would have to do by population. You recognize him, too. And recognize, Mr. Feijó, also that there are many things to do. Recognize that in protected housing, zero. Twelve years of Mr Feijóo's government in Galicia, housing policy is zero; no compromise or increase. When they ask you about the industrial crisis, Mr. Feijóo says: I have no blame, I have no responsibility. For Ence there is no alternative place; throughout Galicia, according to the Government of the Union of Galicia, there is no industrial floor to make a new placement for the plant of Ence. When there's industrial crises in the Navy, there's nothing to pose because it's someone else's fault. [[Murmurs.]] So, in all areas, it's the same thing to have this government that no one had in San Caetano. So we have to tell them that, in addition to spending, they manage well. Any proposals? Of course there are proposals! We thought they'd take out the competition new public health squares in competitive terms, because the problem is that if you've been a lot of health professionals, because for many years you've been offering them working conditions that make the occupation rate, for example, of Pediatrics in Asturias much higher than we have in Galicia. They give them stability to labour contracts, because many health professionals had to link up to thirty work contracts in one month by the health policies of the People's Party. [[Applause]] We plan that we need to increase staff in social services, that we need this new model of residences with more public residential squares; that we have to go back to the system of free textbooks and the first free tuitions at the university, which does not have a huge cost, and you can do, that for this they received more than one billion this year; that it is possible to plan for an increase of I+D+I from up to 1.5% of GDP. They hire new researchers; in addition to announcing their careers, they hire new researchers and researchers to achieve a more active and active Welsh economy. I plan a youth and housing employment plan to be able to solve these problems of emancipation for so many boys and girls. They bet on the democratic memory, on the climate emergency, and they make a new economic policy of industry, which is fundamental to all of us. You were unable to manage European funds. Again, four out of every ten euros of European funds have not been managed, according to the Board of Auditors, it is not said by the Socialist Party. So when I say so, I'm not putting any locks on those Next Generation funds, which have no connection to that. What you have to set is what's the map of priorities in Galicia to take advantage of those next generation funds. I don't find it, I see a Government of the Disgruntled, Disgruntled People's Party, which has gone from promoting 7 to 106, to 354, which every day brings out a new program or a new plan to be funded by the Next Generation projects. But from the opacity and from the lack of consensus you don't exercise well. I also wanted to say that it's time to talk about Galicia that we want. And when we talk about Galicia that we want, we have a clear commitment to a Galicia of progress and to a Galicia of the future. That is why we obviously have to escape extremism. We don't want to have agreements with Bildu, but, of course, we don't want to have agreements, as you do, with Vox's ultra-right. And that's the photo of the People's Party, they represent the PP... don't you have any agreements with Vox? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Am I not from the People's Party of Marriage? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Socialist Party... look: the Socialist Party has neither agreements nor investments with Bildu nor with Vox. [[Murmurs.]] That is the reality of the country of the votes we have for investment. [[Murmurs.]] And the People's Party, which is thrown right and right, has to explain to the Greeks what you want to do with our country. If we want to work for a new status -- which I understand the President of the Board has just assumed that he is open to talk and trying to build an adaptation of the 1981 Statute -- we believe, of course, that this is a convenient and positive challenge for Galicia. As the worst phases of the pandemic are going through, we must also assume in this Parliament of Galicia the updating of that statistical framework. Just as the best politics was done in 1981, we are called upon to do so. And we are called upon to do so from positions that escape from any kind of independence, from positions that escape from any mechanism of self-determination, but which can assume that from a historical nationality we can strengthen self-government and also understand Galicia as a nation of Breogan, as a cultural nation. Understanding a rule of law in which within the Constitution what can be developed, and outside the Constitution, nothing that violates the sovereignty of the citizenship of the state as a whole can be accommodated. But there are, of course, many issues that we can improve. I don't believe in the coupon or the economic concert, it's a financial plan that doesn't lead to any sort of advance to Galicia and which, in addition, assumes an alien structure to which a solidarity state and a state of well-being implies. And I don't believe in any self-determination or sovereignty proposal either. But if I want to acknowledge the Greek nationalism, which is a progressive force, which is a force that defends public health, that defends public education, that defends a progressive change in Galicia, against a People's Party that attacks the public, that leaves rural and does not have a country project that benefits the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u38	And that's why we all have to look for meeting points to build a better Galicia. And the PSdEG is willing to be the engine element of search for cross-border agreements between a right that cannot be in extremism and a nationalism that has its point of reference in Galicia, and so must it be. Among all of them, we can build a positive page in this legislation to defend the Greeks and the Greeks. Not to defend any higher cause ideologically, but if people, yes, Greek citizenship. And for that citizenship, it's what we work for. My commitment, Mr. Feijóo, is Galicia. I haven't been like you for sixteen years in this parliament, and 17 for Mrs. Pontón. You have, Mr Feijóo, been a member of the Government of Galicia for more years than a Member; I have been in Parliament for two years. But my commitment is Galicia. Before I became a Member, I worked in Galicia from another academic and university field. And I have no vocation but to serve Galicia, with my mistakes and my successes. Don't be mistaken, I'm not in politics to find anything but what I think, and to do it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u40	...in this parliament, which to me is an honor, of course, to be able to work and build that Galicia better, like all of us. But I'm suggesting that the president of the board points out that there is another kind of target more than Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u42	If I had another goal more than Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u43	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u44	...could be in more comfortable situations than being here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u45	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u46	My commitment is Galicia and it's PSdEG-PSOE's commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u47	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u49	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u50	Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Mr. Feijó, because I have to start by saying yes, that I am today in the debate of the state of the Greek nation. Actually, you'll know why it bothers him to say that. Don't I know why it's wrong? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And he came to complain -- look! - that the BNG spokesperson didn't come to this debate applaud him. You wanted a debate on the state of applause of Mr. Feijóo. Yes, that's what the People's Party stands for, and that's why you have kidnapped public media... and how that doesn't reach you wants the BNG to come and applaud you. [[Laughter]] I was saying at the beginning of my previous intervention that we were in a time when if anything we had to learn was from citizenship, but also that in politics there is a fundamental value, which is humility, Mr. Feijóo. A little humility wouldn't hurt him. [[Applause]] Also something of a democratic spirit, because every time we have a debate it becomes more manifest that it has intolerance to democratic criticism, because it bothers you that we come with data, with figures, with reality to show that with you Galicia goes at least, when it is a great country that has everything to move forward. [[Applause]] And he complains that the opposition makes opposition. Man, we could complain about having a president who opposes the opposition rather than governs, because the Greeks and the Greeks pay him for ruling. I don't complain. Anyway, I think he portrays his inability to defend the government's management. [[Applause]] But, above all, what worries me most is that with you Galicia gets smaller, because you don't think Galicia is big. And today he again demonstrated it, and in a moment of great changes, of great transformations, in which there is a lot at stake, because the future of the next generations is at stake. And it came to this debate to show that Galicia thinks in a little way. And that leads us to political irrelevance and to the fact that we have less weight and that in this country there are fewer opportunities for young people. He lacks ambition for the country and he will rule over the centralism that this People's Party imposes on him further. And, of course, he will also rule over the economic lobbies, friends of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And I'm glad that today the Greeks and the Greeks can listen to the replica on the TVG, because it's something that doesn't usually happen, only happens once a year, since it's the only time the public media broadcast live what happens in Parliament. And you started asking us for a debate of height and we'll think about Galicia. And I in my speech spoke to her about Galicia, and you answer me with Pujol; I speak to her about Galicia, and you answer me by talking about Bildu; I speak to her about Galicia, and you tell me about the process; I tell her about Galicia, and you talk about anything less than what matters, which is going to be the strategy to give this country a future. That's what Galicia cares about you. [[Applause]] And to continue to demonstrate to us the debate of the height in which we are talking to us until what was the lining of my folders in high school. Do you know what worries me? [[Laughter]] Not the linings of my school folder, what I'm worried about is that your friends are messing with Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, Iberdrola's embraceer, who earns 12.2 million euros every year by feeding on the wind of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, never forget: Galicia is a great country and we need a president who doesn't think small, because so far his government action is making Galicia smaller. It's smaller in industry, in innovation, in productive sectors, the smaller in population, too. And it's just that there are things that many times you hear them don't stop being -- I don't know how to say it -- disheartening. Because it's the big deal that you come to make a drama a virtue. And I'll explain. It's true that in Galicia we have a lower rate of youth unemployment than the state average. And I would love that the reason was because here are great opportunities for young people. But the reality is that in Galicia we have a lower unemployment rate than in the state because you've had to take the suitcases almost two hundred thousand Greeks and Greeks that aren't here today. Sure, because that's the drama, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] It's just that since he got to the Union, we've lost 217,000 people between 16 and 34 years of age. Do you see how you make Galicia smaller? Besides, then tell us that this has nothing to do with the demographic crisis. Of course, you come here alone and exclusively, instead of breaking up with data, trying to discredit staff, because it's their style -- it's sad, but it's their style -- because the Greeks and the Greeks deserved a debate of another kind. But don't tell them, and there are things that everyone knows. To deny that there is youth emigration is immigration negationism. There is the negationism of the vaccines and the negationism of Mr Feijóo's emigration. Look if it's an important subject that there's a study of the Galician Economic Forum, which I'm sure you know or should know, which says that, among other things, emigration causes Galicia to lose 1,500 people every year; 1,500 children and children who would have to be born out here and born out. [[Applause]] But you, nothing, solve the demographic problem with laws that have no impact and with measures that have already demonstrated their failure. Mr. Feijó, please, a little serious. And I think it would be important for you to start stepping on the country more, because you've been in the official car for many years. Look, I was in high school, you were already in the official car. And you know what he was doing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u52	I've listened with great respect to all the interventions. I'm sorry that's not the reciprocity of the People's Group either. [[Applause]] Do you know what I was doing when I was in high school? Putting in place the first attempt to privatize public health, which were the comarcas foundations. And I'm going to give you another data: do you know who reverted those privatizations? [[Applause]] The Government of the Socialist Party and the BNG, which incorporated these foundations into the public health system. That's the difference in how you conceive of health and how we conceive of it. [[Applause]] And really, if you were to get out of the official car, if you had stopped living on that fake reality that you're building with your propaganda on the TVG, of course, there are things you wouldn't do. I wouldn't minimize what's going on in this country's public health, because I can tell you that for a sick person who's taking the phone and who's going to date in three weeks' time, it's a problem, Mr. Feijóo. And this has happened in this country and will continue to happen if no measures are taken to strengthen public health, and in particular primary care. [[Applause]] If you walked the country further and got out of the official car, you'd see that there's a very serious problem with what's going on with our elders. And today he came here to defend himself to do business with the right to a worthy old age. So we told him no, that we have to bet on a public system, because it's one of the great learnings that leaves this pandemic. You defend private, and we defend a public model, because we owe it to our elders, who I think deserve all our respect and recognition. [[Applause]] And also if I had lived a little more in reality, I wouldn't say the things that he says about something so important, because that's what connects us most to the Greeks and the Greeks, which is the language. The English language is the only one in the entire state that is losing speakers. I'm there on my seat, because I forgot, but it's the same, the last study that I've just done at the Royal Galaga Academy. I recommend you read it, Mr. Feijóo. Because it's demolition about what that "decree of shame" means. What he literally says is that teaching is being a disqualifying element. And that's what the Royal Academy tells you, but if you had talked to a lot of parents and mothers in this country who educate their children in English, you'd hear them say they're going through the school door talking in German and they're going out speaking Spanish. [[Applause]] And does this know what he portrays? Your linguistic freedom, Mr Feijóo. This portrays your linguistic freedom. [[Applause]] He also told us about catechisms. All right, everyone has their references, you, catechism. I recognize him as an authority in terms of catechism, which I do not have. You have the catechism of the Feijóo People's Party, which is the farthest People's Party in history, and that catechism that also has a section -- yes, yes, yes, yes --...which is what all people condemned to corruption in the People's Party, who are then, in addition, the referents of their ideological rhetoric. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, each one joins whoever he wants. [[Applause]] And following that high-level reflection script, it also gave us a high-level reflection on the public media. I think maybe right now they're thinking about putting a comedy club in Galicia and inviting you to inaugurate this comedy club. But, of course, this is a very serious subject, isn't it? Because we're talking about the fact that without the public media, we have a low-quality democracy. You've been manipulating CRTVG for 12 years. And don't tell him BNG, no, no. Do you know who told you, Mr. Feijóo? Public media professionals, who have 177 Black Fridays denouncing their manipulation, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And if you want to have a TV that's Telefeijoo, let the People's Party pay for it, because TVG costs us 100 million euros, you pay for it by the Greeks and the Greeks, and you deserve something more. [[Applause]] And it's done not only in the information data, it's looked at the data in Galicia, and you'll see it's at the very least in the history of the audience. Check that data and you'll see where they're driving us. [[Murmurs.]] And I, Mr. Feijóo, are of those who I think it is very important to always tell the truth. And we have to tell the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And you're preparing a water flavor. He denounces BNG and has also been reported by Fegamp. Do you know what calculation does? A Greek or a Greek who pays 16 euros today, with his reform of the law, he will pay 26 euros. I mean, in the middle of light, you're the one who prepares us for the water. Well, let's report it and stop it, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] He told us about Ence, too. I don't know what part of the illegal extension isn't what you just understood? Of course, it's surprising that it goes so far as to be unique and exclusively to defend the interests of the board of directors of Ence. Yes, because they look: do you know who puts Ence's job at risk? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You with that attitude and the company itself. You get to work for the transfer and avoid losing a single job, because it's you who are risking it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] He's already destroyed 17,400 jobs in the industry. Don't go that way. And he also told us about AP-9. Yeah, but it's funny, he didn't say anything about the privatization of Aznar; he didn't say anything about the illegal extensions of twenty-five years; he didn't say anything about why you when you were Territorial Policy Advisor came here saying that the privatization of AP-9 was good for Galicia. It's just that the hemerothecs are here to remind you, Mr. Feijóo, that you were evaluating privatization. Because you rule for the powerful and against the people. But he didn't say they're not going to support the end of that concession either. [[Applause]] Then I'm very surprised you don't know the Greek electric fare we're defending since BNG. Yeah, I'm very surprised. Yes, Mr. Feijóo, because in the last plenary -- I think you're still a member of this parliament -- you came to press the red button of "No" before the law to propose that Welsh electric tariff. Did you vote without knowing what you were voting for, Mr Feijóo? I mean, you vote and you don't know what you vote. [[Applause]] In any case, what surprises me is that you, who knows so much about electricity, electricity, and who embraces large executives of electrical companies, and who is so worried about the industrial crisis in this country, had said nothing when the People's Party charged a stable electricity tariff and put us in a system that is literally drowning our industry. And that's the responsibility of the People's Party. There Mr. Feijó was not even expecting him. [[Applause]] And I'm going to tell you very briefly what our model is. Our model is very simple. It's to put the country's wealth into Galicia's service to create jobs and jobs here, so that the electricians stop drilling and the Greeks and we see that our resources are for our economic development. That's our model. The problem is yours is they're filling the power stations even though Galicia is wrong. Because you know, Mr. Feijóo: this is a very serious problem. [[Applause]] And it's very serious that we have a president who doesn't trust Galicia or his potential. He shows it every time he talks about funding, insisting on that idea that we don't pay the services we have with our taxes. Look: Galicia needs a president who thinks big, and you're determined to keep thinking small. At the BNG, as much as you don't like, we're going to keep thinking about this country at large, because the Greeks and the Greeks deserve the future they want. And they can have it if we start thinking about our country, about its possibilities, and stop betraying Galician interests to benefit the great economic lobbies and be faithful to the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u54	Galicia deserves a government that thinks big.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u56	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón, as you've used to us -- soft in forms but dogmatic and radical at the bottom -- came to use an expression to find out precisely the People's Party which was that we are in sterile confrontations and that we are in sterile conflicts. [[Interruptions.]] I, Mrs. Pontón, came from a nationalist party, did you want us not to file resources on the IVE? [[Murmurs.]] Because that's what they tell us is to confront the government. [[Applause]] Do you want us not to claim the Next Generation funds? It's hilarious! On the other hand, I'd like to know what his alternative is. Today he made a curious announcement, which was that of the Transfer Commission. Don't you remember that in the investment debate you told us that in the pact with the Socialist Party it was going to be convened imminently? But if it was already done. We've been here for a year. You signed the agreement with the Socialist Party for the Joint Transfer Commission. He came here saying you had achieved what the People's Party had not done in I don't know how many years, and the reality is that there's still no Joint Transfer Commission. Things are much more complex. Perhaps this is a model like that intelligent cooperation that the Block made when it asked for transfers, it asked for seventy-four, and in the end it got three or four, which is the same thing that it looks like they're going to achieve now with the Socialist Party pact. What's not smart is making curses. You've seen here with insinuations about dangerous friendships to the most Trumpist style, because this is Trumpist populism, saying this is the Washington elite that explodes, etc. You come with this speech which is absolutely fake, which is not true in reality. You're sure you know the Foesa Report on Equality in Galicia. This one says it's very interesting, it says Galicia is too far from the inequality in Spain. This has a distinct feature of all forms of inequality in Spain, which is that while in Spain inequality is the difference between the richest and the poor, in Galicia what is a difference that increases because 60% of the average income population is far from the poor. That is, the rich are not the ones who are increasing the difference and inequality in Galicia, but the middle classes, 60%. It's in Fossa's report. So it's not true that we're doing policies that favor the rich; on the contrary, they favor the middle classes and they want to favor those who need them most. Now, as you have done this curse let me answer you with another. You said President Feijóo for his friendship with some businessman must leave. That's a curse, obviously. But I would remind you that in this chamber over these years, that you are more veteran than I am, but I have already been here long enough to remember the multiple spokesmen of the opposition who predicted the march of Mr. Feijóo. I'd ask you where they are now. Some, fortunately for them, occupy high office in Madrid, but most of them are at home. So I trust you're no longer a spokesperson but to join the spokespersons who are no longer in this chamber who have predicted Mr. Feijó's march. [[Applause]] I believe that parliamentary debate and parliamentary confrontation, although there are no agreements -- I understand that there may be people who feel disappointed today because of the lack of agreements -- is not a sterile confrontation. It's useful for society to see that there are two different ways of designing the country. We -- I think with some humility -- give data that explains the situation and say that we have to improve, because we don't fix an idyllic country, because we know it doesn't exist, because we know we live in the world we're in, and we want to improve every day. And we think that's what the people of Galicia are doing day by day when they get up, when they're looking for work, when they're going to study, when they're doing their regular tasks... and, of course, what they don't understand is that you say Galicia is a country that came at least, that's destroyed. But what vision of Galicia is that? I don't really share it. I think it's good that the people know that you see Galicia as they see it, that it's not how it really is. This debate is also useful to see what ideas are and what problems the opposition considers to be more important. Well, the two opposition groups talked about Galicia's change of legal status. Mr. Caballero came with the reform of the Statute, and I would ask him whether he agrees with the new political status that the Block calls for Galicia, seeing who its partners are, and which meant the political status change in Catalonia from a political point of view, from a social and an economic point of view. I think, of course, we're in a clear position. Certainly, we see that the opposition is not in the same position. And we believe that the Statute is working, that, of course, it is likely to be improved, and that the problem of the autonomous state is not the new political status of nations, but that the problem of the autonomous state is cooperation, coordination, of course, to walk towards joint decisions and not towards bilaterality. Second question, self-financing. We see that the opposition, which only agrees to criticize the PP, proposes the coupon; an economic disaster for Galicia. As it was said, a count of a billion on the assumption that Catalonia was the dome, I don't say any more if it were other communities like Madrid. But we see that the Socialist Party is openly against the dome. Again, the Government is talking about reforming the system of self-financing, giving them stability to incomes and complying with the two fundamental principles, which are sufficient and equitable. Sufficient to be able to pay public services and equity so that such essential public services are equally dispensed throughout the Spanish territory. They're talking about the electric market. You come with the electric fare. You said if you didn't know what Mr. Feijóo voted for. What I don't think you know what I proposed was you, because it makes no sense to propose an electric tariff that will cost the Greeks 200 million euros a year, which is more or less what the distribution of electricity in a country like Galicia, with the orography you have, with the dispersion of the population you have, with the storms you have... and without going further, forget what the electric market is, that the electric market is not even Spanish, is iberic. And the price differences have to do with the costs that have been incorporated into the electric bill as a result of adventures with the financing of renewable energy in pre-priority times, which have left a deficit that we still pay today. So I can see that the opposition does not agree with the Statute, does not agree with each other about autonomous financing, does not agree with each other about the electricity market. And by the way, just talking about energy, we're saying from the very first moment a reasonable and fair ecological transition, there's no need to move forward to what doesn't need to be put forward. I don't know if you've read this weekend the information that came from some economic newspaper, which said that last weekend Spain imported energy from Morocco and France; from Morocco produced with coal and from France produced with nuclear energy. Then it's business to close The Bridges!, which, by the way, is already putting on coal in case you have to start again. That's an unfair and disorderly transition, which, in addition, generates higher costs of electricity and has to do with bad planning, not with the market -- I insist: Portugal is in the Iberian market -- and of course not with the Greek electric tariff. The electricity market, such as Social Security and many other issues in which it is interested in gaining scale, the bigger, the more secure supply at the best price. Therefore, reducing the electricity market to Galicia with an electric tariff because, of course, it is absolutely irrational. Fourth theme I saw in this debate: the BNG wants to rescue all strategic sectors; however, the Socialist Party, which co-governates with the BNG everywhere, is not even able to intervene Alcoa when we're asking it all. Well, it never ceases to be a striking contradiction. [[Applause]] Bottoms. They say we ask the magicians for money. So the Block asks for two letters to the magician kings, because it asks for double as we do, without any criteria and without any quantification and without any concrete project that explains what is absolutely decentralised. The Socialist Party, what does it do? It deals with Vox as European funds are distributed and is made absolutely centralized. Well, it is curious that the opposition shares these criteria. It's good for the people to know in public. We're where we were. We understand that there are funds that need to be centralized, because the transformation of the Spanish economy also has aspects that affect the whole country, but, of course, there must be codecision and coordination with the autonomous communities that have just managed some of these funds. This was the fifth question. Sixth question, maybe this is the nicest thing. I suppose Mr. Caballero will agree with me that we live in a full democracy, an advanced democracy. No, it turns out your benchmate says, above all, that we live in a democracy literally of "low quality." And he argues that the President of the Pretérito State has some non-judicial problem but with Feventa, as if no democratic or non-democratic republic had ever had any problem with its President of State. But finally, if that's what the Block says, that we have low democracy, because really... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I appreciate it when you apply the recipe. [[Applause]] The risks to democracy are extremism. This is a reality, a reality that is in all polytological literature. And let me remind you: in this chamber there is only one radical party that deals with radicals, with Bildu and the Republican Left. And, by the way, Mr. Knight, also the PSOE. In Navarra, the government of the Socialist Party was an investment agreement with Bildu. And now you can tell me: well! Don't say no, because this is something everyone knows. [[Applause]] But in any case, what I mean is that I know there are radical parties. And I think that the program that brought us the Block today, the ten points that brought us Mrs. Pontón are very radical, from her advisism and from her left. And as they say, it's true. So here's a radical program. But it's a radical program that has always defended the word; there are other radicals who are worse, who have defended their radical programs with weapons. And I think even within the radicality you have to distinguish who you're dealing with. The People's Party has never agreed with any hereditary force of terrorism, and you have. I insist: in Navarre, repeat it. Mr. Knight, of course we remember the previous economic crisis! In fact, we remembered her so much that we remembered that she was ruling the Socialist Party and said there would be no crisis, she said there was a little slowdown. Look if we remember the previous economic crisis! But I think, as an economist, you can agree with me, at best, on two issues. The first is that economic crises are not like flu, which has the same virus that affects everyone. There are economic crises that have endogenous causes. That's what happened to the financial system crisis, which in Spain was much more serious because the financial system was much worse, the real estate system was a bubble. And there are crises because of exogenous causes, which is the cause of the virus that comes and breaks apart from the economic management that each one had made. Therefore, solutions are not always symmetrical. It's true that in this crisis we learn about the other one who couldn't cut the ball. But the truth is that we arrived at that crisis not because a virus had appeared, but because there was a mismanagement of financial institutions, real estate credit, and a government, which was its own, who did nothing. And, therefore, the solutions that Europe proposes, being basically similar, that is to finance, in this case have much more to do with the fact that the crisis has its origin. Otherwise, I very much doubt that Europe had done what it did. I'm not going to get into discussions about the private sector-public sector, because that's just dogmatism. If there's something to understand in this debate is that, apart from the fact that the opposition doesn't match the essentials of each other -- and I think here, actually, you see that we are in a very moderate and very focused spectrum with respect to what you're arguing about -- but the truth is that in the face of that dispersal, I think this debate also serves to value the stability of the Government, a government that solves people's problems. You didn't question the management of the pandemic here practically or all the data we gave this morning both the president and me. A stable majority that celebrates the Statute, which accompanies a group of opposition and rejection of another; a group that advocates fair self-financing, that maintains its commitments to the European Union, and alternatives that, of course, seek to break up with all this. We see that there is a lot of dogmatism in the proposals that are given to us. Dogmatism is to deny the evidence. And when you talk about increasing sovereignty with solutions to Galicia's problems, you're forgetting what the process of finding the vaccine was, who financed and how the vaccines were financed; they're forgetting that they fund European funds. Finally, they are forgetting everything that has done us where we are, they are forgetting European aid, they are forgetting that even Europe is defending the European Union against those whom you consider to be non-democratic, such as the governments of Poland and Hungary. There's no more to see how England is outside the European Union. And within this dogmatism is that of the public sector. Look: the public sector and the private sector are clearly complementary; in addition, one needs the other, and it is reciprocal. The private sector needs the public sector to function well, with good regulation; the public sector has to work well when the private sector abuses, when there are monopolies and which cannot be regulated in any other way. And we're discovering -- this was called "classic" one day Mr. Knight -- what's called the "Enterprise State," which is public-private collaboration. Of course, there are projects that can be taken out of the hands of the public and the private. In fact, that's the way she's following the board with the proposals from the Next Generation funds. What is dogmatic is to say that the public is always better; as dogmatic as the anarchocapitalists say: the only good is the market and that the public sector is always bad. Once again, we are in moderation and we understand that the public-private are compatible and that the important thing is that they work together to get the country forward. And we also discovered in this debate, I think it became quite clear what they said on the road... finally, it's difficult to deal, obviously. How can it not be difficult to deal if they are against the Statute, if they are against the financing system, and so on, when do they want everything to be public? Well, then, at last, that's what there is. But it's good for the country to listen to him, to know him and to take his conclusions. And in front -- that is, on this side -- there's a united government, a government that's not wasting time with things. [[Mr. Puy friga points to the government bank.]] I understand they're involved in reflection processes and primary processes. But the truth is that this government is focused on what it is; it is united, the People's Parliamentary Group is united; we are not distracted by any elective process -- that I wish to all who are doing well --. The truth is that it is focused on recovery, which is working with experience and support in experts, who are loyal to Galicia in defending their interests, which respects the current institutional framework, which guarantees coexistence and social peace...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u58	...and that, as we tried this morning, he intends to rule from agreement and from dialogue, not from confrontation. And -- I insist -- for us, president, it's an honor to collaborate with a government that makes agreement and dialogue its maximum performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u59	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the debate, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we take good note of the issues raised by the representatives of the opposition groups. Mr. Knight, I have listened to the constitutional reform of the Statute, not to independence and to BNG. Certainly, it's a little complex, because the first thing the BNG spokesperson told me is that this is the "debate of the nation." So, really, how does this combine? If we want a constitutional statute, we cannot be a nation; if we are against independence, we cannot rule with the BNG, and if we rule with the BNG, we cannot have a constitutional reform of the Statute. So, it would be good, Mr. Knight, that you're trying to win the BNG, because if you win the BNG, you might as well have more chance of convincing the BNG. I'm not saying it beats the People's Party, because that's natural -- and it's perfectly legitimate -- for now it hasn't happened. The truth is, here they want us to be deceived as always. They come here and we turn around, we say one thing, but then, when we get out of the room, there's a government that rules and an opposition that rules together in institutions. Here they look like two but in institutions they're one. Mrs. Pontón, you come here to talk about "Galiza," I come here to talk about "Galice." That's an important difference. [[Murmurs.]] You are the only ones who name the country differently than we all call it, including the Royal Galaga Academy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know that in Portugal... if they say "Galiza"... Ah! well, we're already realizing... you're far further from Galicia and much closer to Portugal. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, to me the truth is I really admire the Portuguese Government, among other things, because it is able to rule without the radicals of the left and the Communist bloc of Portugal. Yes, yes, you should know. [[Murmurs.]] In many countries of the world and in Europe, independentist ideologies are banned in the constitution. You take care of the country you choose; it's not going to be that you consider them unconstitutional parties and, therefore, that you cannot present to the elections. The Galician Autonomy Statute allows an independent party to take part in the elections and be part of the Galician Parliament, and the entire majority parliamentary group respects that minority ideological proposal. But that's why it would be good, Mrs. Pontón, that you talk about "Galice" one day; nothing happens, it's what we call ourselves. It's true that you can say in your national councils what they want, but if you want to comply with the Law of Linguistic Standardization, you should say "Galice" rather than "Galiza", because if you don't comply with the correct use of the names of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I don't think it's worth it, given the time and the advance, that we're starting to talk again about the things we've already talked about. Mr. Knight came back here and said we didn't do anything at home. He doesn't care! I'll give you the housing data, in case you're interested. See: 2,500 public promotion dwellings assessed since 2010; 3,700 real estates in the rental park of the Union of Galicia; 17,500 rental aid granted since 2015. And here comes to invent the good housing, and these 17,500 good housing that we fund the Greeks, 34 million euros, with our taxes just dropped them immediately. With all the people who cover the rental bonus have to get out of their houses tomorrow, 17,000 people are left homeless, and that goes to the scene. They are 2,920 social lease bonds, including rental bonds for victims of violence, granted between 2015 and 2021. Well, it turns out this doesn't exist, this whole thing is that Galician we invented. Mr. Knight, I will not accept to be responsible for the industrial defeat that you are promoting. Do you want me to assume responsibility for the Vestas situation? Look: both Siemens and Vestas don't believe in the Government's Energy Plan, and that's why they're going, because they don't want to build steps in Spain. I am not going to accept the situation of Alcoa, because when we arrived at the government the price of the megawatt was around 40 euros the megawatt, now for the electrointensives exceeds 100 euros the megawatt. Does this turn out to be the responsibility of the Galician Union? Why for once do you not assume your responsibility, not as a leader of the Socialist Party, but as a Member? I wouldn't happen to say that the central government's problem is a waiting list of X- Hospital Traumatology, no. But you come here to say: no, you assume your responsibility, and the closure and industrial conversion that we are making the Socialist Government of Madrid is the responsibility of the People's Party and the President of the Union. But what does the Statute consist of? Does each assume his or her responsibilities or actually mock each other of Galicia's competences, trying to obscure the specific responsibilities? Paulo Carril, leader of the IGC -- I suppose he's an authority on the left bank -- "Yolanda Díaz is responsible for the industrial crisis in Galicia." I suppose these BNG people will agree. Do you agree? [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo directs a document to the BNG bench.]] Well, you should talk to each other. [[Murmurs.]] Because if the IGC leader is clear that the industrial crisis is central government responsibility, I'm surprised BNG comes here to blame me for what I don't have. It's a very surprising thing, gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, again with CRTVG's mantra. But as if we didn't remember what happened at CRTVG when you were in government -- information for PSOE and programs for BNG. That's what happened, or don't they wake up? Don't you remember what they said to each other about the high offices of the Bipartite? Don't you remember what the spokesperson for the BNG said -- next door was Mrs. Pontón -- saying that the newsrooms were only worth knowing where the Socialist Government members were going to eat? Don't you remember, Mrs. Pontón? I was there. I remember myself perfectly. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo shows a central seat of the House.]] I was in the opposition, you were in the government. But he says he's kidnapped and only this debate takes place in the media of the TVG, no, Your Honor. See: Control sessions to the President are broadcast live. When you were in government, no. You know why? Because it was a little boring to see how the control sessions of the President of the Galician Union consisted of two questions from the parties of the Government and a question from the opposition party, which was missing a seat for the absolute majority. That couldn't be broadcast because it was embarrassing. Now it's retransmitted. I wish they'd broadcast more, because so maybe some election results would come out a little different! Because people would really realize who's kidding here, trying to stain the biography of some Member or a Member. [[Murmurs.]] I take all my biography with all the mistakes, all the evas and all the defects, all the. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure I've been wrong many times, but I've never sold Galicia! And sell Galicia for a closed ideological plot, never! And put Galicia over my game, never! [[Applause]] So I have no drawback to see all this, on the contrary. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We'll come back again with the mantra of emigration. Once again Mrs. Pontón "reguiled the Greeks" -- I literally say -- you've fooled the Greeks for the second time consecutively in this debate session. He's talking about 347,000 people out of Galicia, but he's not talking about 419,000 entering and, therefore, 71,975 people more than they came out. He talks about whether they went on Thursday between 16 and 34 years old, about 144,000, but he doesn't say they came in 160,000, that is, 16,000 other Thursdays came in from those who went out. Why don't you say that? Can we keep the young ones who can't get out of the house, Mrs. Pontón? Can't a young man go anywhere? Can't we just get the young ones who come here without being yellow? But what is your approach to the country? Turns out we have to ask BNG for permission to go out and get in! Turns out you're a bad German, and if you come in, you're a foreigner. [[Laughter]] But look, we're in the European Union, we have a passport, Your Honor, and what I don't accept is that I'm here to learn about what comes in and what comes out. [[Laughter]] The younger they left Galicia was when they ruled the BNG and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Exactly like that, Your Honor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But let's go back with the mantra again, Mrs. Pontón. The next mantra is immigration, which we don't respect the country, which we don't want Galicia, which we're bad Greeks. And you're still on electrical subjects. Well, that's very good. I remind Members of the BNG that they are no longer in this chamber talking about electrical matters. He listened with great interest to what they were asking because they were in the government and were arguing with each other. And, of course, they never listened to BNG's proposals, even though BNG was managing the Industry Council. It was an amazing thing! The electricity tariff with the Nationalist Industry Council has never been approved by the BNG while in the Government. And now it turns out that being in the opposition and partner of the Socialist Party tells us that the problem of electricity tariff is a problem of PP. Of course this is the comedy club, Mrs. Pontón; this is a comedy. But a comedy that I'm not willing to simply omit because it doesn't work out for you. Mrs. Pontón, your party mates didn't see so much trouble with the wind; no, they were delighted. I remember when that deputy said: if the president of the board wants to know who are the adjudicators of the wind farms that consult the Council website. That's what's called a united government and a respect to the president of the Union. So give lessons on the friendship of the electricians, a smile, Your Honor. Why didn't they charge the electric guns for the wind farms? It's an answer you still don't know. We're serious. We think we're a power wind; we have to order that power. We think we can have a marine propeller; we have to order the marine propeller. Do you want them? What's your proposal, I repeat. It's just that it's very important, because maybe we can get on with it. But I just don't know her, because it depends on the timely moment when they present her, and, above all, if you're reaching an agreement with the People's Party, it's withdrawn. The BNG people are a little bit more sensible... yes, don't worry, because with the BNG we've made a lot of things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The problem is that BNG has changed, and now there's no BNG, now it's UPG, which is something different, totally different. [[Murmurs.]] Look: with BNG we agreed to fund the pharmaceutical system, the PSOE against it, of course. That's right, we're friends with multinationals, but PSOE didn't want to in any case reduce pharmaceutical benefits. No, no, you can't touch it there. We have agreed with BNG the fusion of the boxes; the PSOE does not, of course. But, of course, those BNG officials are no longer in the BNG and now, obviously, there are others. Well, I, of course, have agreed with some. I have no drawback in dealing with others. The problem is who they are, not who they are. Because the ones who made the country agreements, if they reached the country agreements, and probably that's why they left the military at the BNG. Because those who arrive at national agreements can't be part of the BNG elite. This is the history of the country once told and once a biography is made of each of the nationalist leaders who had the BNG. But it is evident that Mrs. Pontón was in high school when I was in an official car. What's surprising is that he's been taking more years as a Member than I am. It certainly started fast. You must admit that you started very quickly. [[Murmurs.]] Be careful because it's going too fast, Your Honor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Speaking of public-private collaboration, another mantra. Look, when I got to the government, I found myself with 3,9 billion euros of mortgage on buses with public-private collaboration made by the Bipartite. It is 3,900 million euros Santiago-Noia, 3,900 million euros Barbaza, 3,900 million euros O Salnés. It is EUR 3,900 million in public-private funding. So how does that translate? Because we didn't put up a euro of peas; we're paying for the prices of shadow funding that you left, which I didn't criticise, because I understood that there was no other formula for doing those buses in real time and simultaneously. There were no current budgetary resources. I was absolutely a vilified advisor during the year and a half that I was an advisor to Territorial Policy. The Bipartite came, helped everything, left a mortgage of four billion euros that we're paying every year. And now it turns out that we can't talk about public-private funding. Yes, I repeat again: you have perfectly assumed, for example, in the residences of the third age of the Deputy of Lugo, that the director puts the president of the Deputy, that yes, that I put; the second one also puts it -- I suppose -- that the BNG of the Deputy, and the rest of a private company. That's not privatizing residences, Mrs. Pontón, is it? You don't rule in the Deputation of Lugo? Why did they privatize all the Deputies of Lugo? [[Murmurs.]] Do you understand, Mrs. Pontón, how Galicia is a great country where we know what happens everywhere in the country? Do you realize that lessons about what's going on in Galicia aren't possible? 'Cause he ends up knowing everything. So why don't we really talk, which I think is good? I don't come here, Mrs. Pontón, to which you applaud me; that would worry me. I'm here trying to make a serious debate with you, which is the opposition party that has the most votes currently. And it would be good. But if nothing happens, if the BNG can deal with the PP, or not? Can you or can't you? Yeah? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you? Yeah, well, I see that somewhere they're in favor. [[Murmurs.]] I deal with mayors of the BNG. What I'm obviously not going here now is to say the questions that Mrs. Pontón sees, because it has nothing to do with what Mrs. Pontón says about BNG in the street, are different things. And when they get out of the room, I guess everyone's gonna laugh: look, look what we told them, that residences have to be public, but we always have government responsibility to privatize them. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, nothing can build who has never built. And you're opposition because -- I really say it with all due respect -- they're opposition professionals. Mr. Knight, until you were elected Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia, the only references found in your political biography were "leader of the critical sector of the Socialist Party in Vigo." Sorry, I think I have the right to speak. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right? But I have the right to say that Mr. Caballero, who is a specialist in opposition, certainly has a merit. [[Murmurs.]] Because being a secretary-general of the Socialist Party as leader of the critical Socialist Party in Vigo has a merit, Mr. Caballero, that I do not resist to acknowledge it. I say it with absolute respect and with absolute rigour. [[Murmurs.]] Until that doesn't look good on you, and I think so, Your Honor. [[Applause]] When I saw the Socialist Party's primarys, not these, but the others, and I saw that you won, I had to accept and acknowledge that you know how to win primarys. Now, it's a shame you're not a little more critical of the Spanish Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because sometimes being critical within the party wins; you don't always have to be an officer. And to Mrs Pontón, for the statement: 17 years in Parliament: one with Fraga, four with Bipartite, twelve at this stage of government in the opposition. Being in the opposition is an absolutely necessary approach to a democracy. But come to give class of economic-budgetary management, of human resources, etc., and start telling the Government, with more experience, that we do everything wrong... something we'll do right; some, two, three... this afternoon we haven't been able to achieve any. They're here to tell us that we haven't made proposals and that we don't have proposals for reactivation. I want to report to you quickly twenty proposals: the budgets of the year 2022 we will approve them in time and form; we have decreed the end of the health emergency next week; a new strategic plan of Galicia 2021-2030 nothing more and nothing less; alliances with eight autonomous communities to speak of Spain for autonomy; schools are 100 percent free for everyone from the next course; tax download, which will be carried out in the next budgets, fulfilling the electoral programme ratified by the polls; new model of residences of third age; reinforcement of home aid, lunch at home, day centres and houses of the largest; centre specialized in innovation and educational research at the Fontán building; specific financial support program for firms with more difficulties; continue strengthening the multilinguism; research career for five thousand researchers living in Galicia; pact with social agents for a galley agenda of capabilities and public needs; boosting a dedicated research centre forbusinesses ; enhancing the climate change zone to the development ofenergy ; improvedenergy; Finally, Your Honor, these are all proposals for economic reactivation and social reactivation. Like we didn't make any proposals, gentlemen? Unfortunately, they probably didn't have much interest in listening to them. I'm done. Galicia, Mr. Caballero, Mrs. Pontón, is a common project, without a doubt, and its construction brings us all together -- at least that we think -- to all public administrations, to the entire corporate fabric of the country, to all social agents, to civil society as a whole, to every Greek and every galley that starts every day with the will to reinforce their personal project, their professional project, their project as a person. And I've been very clear since that day that in 1985 I had the opportunity to work in the autonomous administration of the country. And in that spirit, I held all the positions of responsibility, the ones I had in the board, the ones I had in the State Administration and the ones I had in the opposition for four years. I'm aware of the difficulty the opposition has, it's always difficult. I can also assure you that managing Galicia in an unprecedented financial crisis and managing Galicia in a global pandemic also requires some difficulties and some successes. Galicia is emerging from this crisis, an unprecedented crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis and a social crisis, but we haven't achieved it yet. No one remains in this task. Every honest council, every honest proposal, every constructive proposal, every idea studied, and every rigorous proposal will be fully studied and, if possible, welcomed by the Government. The opposition is in your right to disagree, of course, but it is also in your obligation to present an alternative. But I think the time to deal with everything, with everyone and everything should be finishing. They're right to maintain the strategy they've maintained over the past 13 years, but they've probably maintained the same strategy over the last 13 years, and they're getting the same results again with the same strategy. The world we know has changed, changed forever, and we'll all have to be managers of that change. So I didn't want to finish without addressing all the Greeks and all the Greeks, which in the end are the ones we all owe: I want to tell every citizen in Galicia they can count on us. You can count on the Union, which will focus all its efforts on economic and social recovery. You can count on a German government with a policy that only seeks to solve people's problems and will always stay away from those who create those problems. You can count on a team that spends all their time improving the present and try to design the future honestly. Galicia is a collective project, a project to which I have the honour to dedicate my life to. There is no greater honor than putting new institutions to the service of the welfare of citizens. There is no greater honor than working to leave the generations to come a land full of more opportunities. There is no greater honour than being able to dignify politics, the political debate in Galicia, but of course, in Spain. There is no greater honor than giving Galicia the place it deserves both in Spain and in Europe and in the world. I was lucky to be able to be surrounded by these years of people who share this vision that Galicia deserves us to put our best to honor her, to serve her and to improve her. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia deserves everything. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-13-DSPG050.u61	Thank you, President. We must make a reminder, which I shall sum up: Parliamentary groups can submit up to 40 motions for resolutions per group, all of which are broad lines of general policy, not local, of simple wording and which cannot give rise to a separate vote within each proposal. All of this will have to do -- these forty proposals -- before 10.30 a.m. on Thursday. Subsequently, the Bureau will meet at 12 a.m. to qualify for the proposals and evaluate which are the accepted ones. The deadline for the submission of the proposed transactions and the request for separate groupings or votes of the proposals will end on Thursday, October 14 at 22.30 p.m., which will also be qualified by the Bureau the following day, Friday, October 15 at 9.30 a.m. Nothing else. The session is suspended until next Friday at 11 a.m. Good night.
