ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. First of all, there is a need to communicate the non-attendance of Mr Francisco Rivera's plenary meeting. I would like to convey to you the information on the development of this session, in particular, of the debate, which we shall do in accordance with what was spoken at the Speakers' Meeting on October 5, 2021 and which was agreed upon there. It will develop in the following way. First, there will be an announcement of the grouping and a separate vote of the motions for resolutions for the vote, in accordance with the information received by the parliamentary groups; a round of speeches by the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups for the presentation and overall defence of all motions for resolutions for a period of 30 minutes per parliamentary group; a round of positions of the parliamentary groups for the proposals of other groups for a period of 10 minutes per parliamentary group; and finally, we would vote on the motions for resolutions. And for that, first of all, you have the floor of the Bureau of the House to take account of the motions for resolutions issued by the Bureau and its grouping for the vote. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u2	Good morning. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 14 October 2021, qualified the motions for resolutions formalised by parliamentary groups in connection with the general policy debate of the Autonomous Community of Galicia of 2021. At the meeting on 15 October, the proposals for transactions and requests for separate votes to vote on the motions for resolutions were considered and the following agreement was adopted: "1. Take note of the proposed transactions and requests for separate votes. Negotiated motions for resolutions: 23715, a proposal negotiated between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 16 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. 23716, proposal for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 31 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23717, proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 16 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23718, proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 32 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23719, proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 15, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23720, proposal for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 20 of the People's Group of Galicia. 27721, motion for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 39 of the People's Group of Galicia. 23722, proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 13 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23723, proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 21 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and No 30 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23724, proposal for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 26 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. 23725, proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 36 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Requests for grouping and voting separate from the motions for resolutions. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: - Motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 33. - Motions for resolutions Nos 19 and 22. - Motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2, 4 to 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 21, 23 to 25, 27 to 29, 34, 35 and 37 to 40. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: - Motions for resolutions Nos 16 and 35. - Motions for resolutions Nos 22 and 33. - Motions for resolutions Nos 1, 4, 8, 11, 26, 31 and 34. - Motions for resolutions Nos 2, 12, 19, 20, 25, 36 and 37. - Motions for resolutions Nos. 3, from 5 to 7, 9, 10, 13, from 13 to 15, 17, 18, 21, 23, 24, from 27 to 30, 32 and from 38 to 40. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia: - Motion for a resolution number 40. - Motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 3. - Motions for resolutions Nos 8, 11 and 31. - Motions for resolutions Nos 4, 6, 32 and 38. - Motions for resolutions Nos. 9, 17 and 24. - Motions for resolutions Nos 25, 27, 29 and 36. - Motions for resolutions Nos 10, 18, 19, 26 and 33. - Motions for resolutions Nos 2, 7, 22, 28, 34 and 35. - Motions for resolutions Nos. 5, from 12 to 15, 30 and 37. 2. The compromise proposals imply the breakdown of motions for resolutions on which they are being dealt, and they will therefore not be put to the vote. 3. The vote shall be put to the vote on the resolution rather than on the explanatory part of the motions for resolutions. 4. The paragraphs in the resolution part of the motions for resolutions, whether or not identified with scripts or any other score marks, cannot give rise to a separate vote. 5. With regard to proposals for parliamentary bodies by resolution of the plenary, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the precedents, their creation is subject to prior compliance with the regulatory requirements required for each body."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Debate on the motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u4	We therefore begin with the round of parliamentary groups for the global presentation and defence of motions for resolutions. For that you have the floor, first of all, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to express my deepest sympathy for the death of Counsellor Valeriano Martínez. I haven't had a chance to do it before. It hurts him on my behalf, since on behalf of the Socialist Group he has already done it on behalf of Gonzalo Caballero. My deepest sense grieves me. I'm going to give you a fact that perfectly sums up the policy of the Galician People's Party. In the 2017 National State Debate -- last year of Rajoy's Government -- the PP presented, among its 40 proposals, only 5 claiming various things to the Central Government. On the other hand, in this debate you have tabled 20 40 proposals; that is, exactly half of the PP proposals in this debate are to claim something to the Central Government. This variation is a scandal. They have multiplied the Central Government's requests for four since Pedro Sánchez is president. Five applications from 40 to the Rajoy Government, 20 requests from 40 to the Pedro Sánchez Government; an increase of 400 %. This is the reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We present in this debate of the state of Autonomy 40 proposals for systematic, coherent resolutions that shape a country strategy on issues that determine the present and future of Galicia: economic policy, industrial and employment policy, health, education, social policies, the modernization of administration, the environment and climate emergency, or the territorial balance between urban and rural Galicia, self-government, youth and public ethics, among other topics. They are a set of proposals that aspire to the same one that aspires to the PSdeG: to correct the eaves of twelve years of conservative policies based on inaction and inertia. Because the Greek model of what you talked about two days ago, Mr. Feijóo is that of inertia, inaction and failure in a world that moves at a much higher speed than at any other time in the history of humanity. And while everything changes around us, the Union is no longer proactive, it doesn't even react to that change, because its political philosophy is that Chilean politician who said there are two kinds of problems: those who solve themselves and those who never solve themselves. We do not participate in that political philosophy, and we believe that we must always be proactive, but much more at a time when everything changes around us, in which in the last year and half we suffer a background and unexpected shaking in our lives and in which we experience more and more frequently that Chinese curse that said "honey alive interesting times." These times are, of course, very interesting; so much, they remember that song of Los Ilegales: New times, wild times. But it seems that Galician PP doesn't care too much about what's going on in the world and follows the same old policies and old recipes; old policies that consist of being driven by inertia, praying, praying from time to time, and systematically blaming others. In industrial policy, to blame the Government, pray not to shut down companies and pray for new businesses to be installed. In fire-fighting policy, pray for it to rain and blame what you call arson terrorism. In demographic policy, blame those who have no children and say, as Mr. Feijóo said the other day, that the problem is that there are few births and many deaths. A reflection of a simplism that forgets that people do not cease to have children for lack of desire, but for lack of opportunity in the present and hope in the future. And since Mr. Feijóo was invested in 2009 Galicia has lost 66,000 inhabitants. [[Applause]] We have the worst demographic data in Spain, not the second worst, the worst demographic data in Spain, which might lead you to think that there is no more effective and powerful contraceptive than the Galician People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] And we could continue to report the PP's list of inactions until next year, but what we want today is basically to propose things that serve to correct the eavesdroppings of their politics. We want to correct the lack of industrial policy, when Galicia is immersed in a situation of acute industrial crisis and bearing in mind that the PP government, despite having full competition, has not done industrial policy in the last twelve years, not very little, taking away Pemex's big cliff, the one in which you said you were going to bring 20 ships or 22 ships, and then there were 2 and a broken yard. And now you have to face the opportunity that the Next Generation funds represent without an active economic and industrial policy path. That implies a paradigm shift in the Union that Mr. Feijóo is quite frankly complicated. That's why we propose a pact by industry and turn Igape into a real instrument of economic policy and promotion, which today is neither by way of assumption, because industrial policy consists in part of a very important task, which is to manage to maintain the Greek capital in Galicia and attract new capital. And your balance, Mr. Feijóo, in this matter is frankly terrifying. To show, according to the data from the Abanca Foundation in 2020, it maintains itself -- as it happens every year of its legislations -- a huge asymmetry between the foreign investment flow received -- 80.4 million -- and the realized from Galicia abroad -- - 1,814 million--; 80 million entering Galicia and 1,814 coming out of Galicia. I mean, Galicia invested last year in foreign 22.5 times more than the funds it received from abroad. And the Foreign Investment Flow Bulletin of the Ministry of Industry indicates that Galicia received 0.3% of Spain's total foreign investment last year, when it represents more than 5% of GDP, and in the best years we almost never, almost never, averaged 1%, when we represent 5% of Spanish GDP, as I say. Therefore, Galicia decapitalises itself and lets it emigrate its own capital, either to the foreigner or outside Galicia, and does not capture foreign capital. This is an indicator of present and future highly worrying, because it shows in a clear and Meridian way that we are not economically attracted, neither to our own businessmen, nor to those outside. And this is the greatest proof of the great economic failure of that so-called "great manager" who claims to be Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] That is why we propose, in addition to the transformation of Igape, that capital formation be at least 60 % of the gross surplus of exploitation, which, translated into common language, means that Galicia ceases to decapitalize itself; that is, the business capital of Galicia ceases to emigrate, which has been doing more than a decade. And we propose to consensualize the projects that enable the Next Generation funds to move from the letter to the Magi kings that brought together the Union to reality and to the realization. Because we've had nearly a year and a half of the pandemic and a fall in GDP in 2020 that hasn't been seen since the Spanish Civil War; a fall of almost 11%. And the greatest opportunity to rebuild our economy and modernize Galicia by step, an extraordinary, historic, and unrepeatable opportunity -- especially the most unrepeatable -- are the Next Generation funds, which involve the greatest financial effort in the history of the European Union, and of which Spain will correspond -- take note, Mr Feijóo -- 18%, with 9% of the total population of the European Union; that is, twice as much of the Next Generation funds that would correspond to Spain for its population. Nothing but twice as much! A historic and unquestionable success of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who was the first in Europe to launch the idea of a Marshall Plan. A success you should recognize. By the way, while Mr. Casado spent a year trying to sabotage in the European Union something as vital to Spain as is that huge financial package of 140 billion euros, in a frankly outraged attitude of a politician who should defend his country at an emergency moment, or at least not sabotage it. [[Applause]] In Galicia you've been dizzying with the projects for the next generation funds for a year, but you've had to come to the Minister of Economy, Nadia Calvin, Galicia telling Mr. Feijóo what we've been saying for a year since the PSdEG: that priority, that marks strategy for the projects. Because you can't say a day ago, 7, another day 107 and end up saying that there are 354, which are actually all the projects that were already in progress in Galicia before the pandemic. Because the Next Generation backgrounds have two main features that are explicit in their structure from the zero minute: transformer character and additionality. [[Applause]] I mean, first of all, they're to do things that transform our productive system, not to make, for example, round. And that's why they have to be destined for investments and programmes that were not already planned or implemented, because for that is already the ordinary budget of the country and that of the European Union itself. Secondly, they must be additional to the regular projects that countries have, and not serve to finance projects already in progress. From any of these parameters Galicia's approach is a disaster, because you're taking all the projects that you've already planned, even budgeted, put some more refilon and you say: that applied we are, that we have a lot of projects, 354! That's a great lie, a scam and a deception to citizenship, because if each community had a number of projects proportional to its population, to match Galicia there would have to be 7,000 projects in Spain. There's obviously not going to be 7,000 projects in Spain, or a tenth of that figure at best. As I say, 95% of the projects -- which you say have 95% -- can either be non-financial, or will be non-financial, because they violate the basis of the Community rules of the State regulation for these funds. And you're trying to use those funds to save your own budget, which you'd rather spend on chiringuitos or customerism, while you irresponsibly sow the idea of the outrage in Galicia to cover your shame. [[Applause]] You inflate the globe of "Roubian Spain", which is radically disassembled with the state's general budgets by 2022, which implies an increase in direct state investment by 29.3% compared to 2021, and will also involve an increase in social spending, which benefits Galicia especially, because when pensions increase Galicia wins, because it has more pensioners than average for the ageing of its population, and more pensioners with the minimum. [[Applause]] And when social spending increases it also gains especially Galicia because it has more people in a dependency situation than the average, and so on. And you'll say -- they said it, with certainty -- that these budgets come up because the previous ones were bad. But the reality is that we were pretty much above the state average on per capita investment and above most autonomous communities. That's the reality. And in these we're better than in those. So you leave Spain to rob us and admit that Galicia is doing a lot better with this government, much better with this government than with Mariano Rajoy. You don't say the opposite because it's a falsehood. [[Applause]] You recognize that there is a government that hasn't lost a second of the construction of the AVE, while a report from the Court of Auditors -- not mine -- determined that with Ana Pastor and other Rajoy ministers there were delays of two years in the middle and overcost and illegality. That put black on a report from the Court of Auditors. You didn't say then, either. And the AVE will arrive in Galicia in December, with a progressive government, and without a second delay since that government has taken fear. You recognize that with a progressive government there's a historic downturn in the rates of AVE; a downturn that you could have carried out during Rajoy's seven years. They could have carried it out, but they didn't want it. He didn't want it, and Rajoy didn't want it, neither did you ask him, because they were quiet, they were completely mute. And you, who seems to have something to tell at the PP, what did you get for Galicia at Rajoy stage? What did you get for Galicia at Rajoy stage? None of you can tell me anything at least significant. That's the reality, and that's the facts. [[Applause]] And because Galicia has a clear deficit in social policy, we propose that this deficit be corrected by investing, to progressively place ourselves on the Spanish media, strengthening the incapacity assessment teams, so that they do not take so long to do a work that depends on the lives of so many people, improving the policies of attention to dependency and at once pushing a new residential model and care to the older people who overcome the current evasiveness; something that PP has certainly been talking about since the pandemic has exposed the shames of the situation in which many of our seniors live and the scandal of companies like DomusVi, in which PP friendly people thrive and get millionaires at the expense of our older people's health. Because Mrs Fernández -- that you know very well, former CEO of DomusVi -- said in the Reactivation Committee in this House that she was very proud to do business with our elders, and she came to the Reactivation Committee laughing at this Parliament and the citizenship of Galicia and you applauded. By the way, they were also taking the floor of this Member who is speaking at the moment. We propose a new residential model and care that starts by not making a look at the irregularities of large companies in the sector, because a report by the Board of Auditors published in 2017 put white on black the Government of Galicia's convolence with the employer of the sector, irregularities and lack of sanctions. DomusVi has not been punished until this pandemic, despite the fact that there have been dozens of previous complaints. There are seven residential inspectors for all of Galicia. We are Spain's second community by queue in numbers of inspectors in proportion to the population in the residences. You can twist the figures, and surely you will, whatever you want, but in the latest report by the State Association of Social Services Directors and Generators, which is the reference report on social policy in Spain, in a set of 30 indicators, Galicia appears as the fourth community in the queue. I mean, we're community number 14 between 17. We're just ahead of Murcia, Madrid and the Canary Islands. We're behind thirteen autonomous communities. And we are the autonomous community that I spend less per person in a dependent situation, despite being one of the most wealthy communities that receives from the state for this purpose and having a dependent population rate above the state average. There are 320,000 people in severe poverty in Galicia; of severe poverty, and it is growing alarmingly. But for you here everything's fine or what's not right is the government's fault. In the meantime, we add 1.58% of GDP to social expenditure, compared with 1.98% of the state average. And so the report I mentioned earlier includes Galicia among the autonomous communities that have what is called the "social rights of paper" report; that is, social rights which are only recognized on the role and which are their great specialty. And we, in addition to ideologically defending public health as an engine of equality, are proud of the public health of Galician people and their professionals, because every day they saved lives in the pandemic and today too, as every day they keep saving lives and improving the quality of life of many people with their work and their efforts, with their over effort. But, for that reason, we have to recognise the problems of that health care: the lack of investment, the lack of resources, the lack of stability, the lack of work, the precariousness of work, the service of unburdened primary care... and, therefore, we propose that primary care be strengthened, that it be planned and coordinated better and that work stability be given to health workers, because public health is deteriorating after the pandemic and after a decade of cuts. For the first time, there are waiting lists in primary care, waiting lists to get a first date, which, in some places, is coming almost a month, and increases the deadlines for seeing a specialist or for entering surgery. Our education has also suffered cuts since 2009, as professionals in the educational community know very well, and as so many parents and mothers in Galicia know that they see as in this beginning there are problems of failing teachers. So we propose a pact for budgetary stability that reverses the cuts that have taken place since the year 2009 and recovers the freeness of textbooks. Galicia has closed, since Feijóo arrived at the Presidency of the Union in 2009, 1,308 schools, and we have asked the Galician Council to pay attention to the claims of the educational community, because the Union has more than 1,800 million extra since the pandemic began in its state-delivered box, among other things, to strengthen public services. By the way, it is very good that Mr Feijóo announces on Wednesday the freeness of schools for children up to 3 years old, but it seems to us to be a real takeover of what you yesterday had tabled a motion for a resolution to ask the State to finance that freeness. Wednesday they announce freeness and Thursday they submit a proposal asking for the state to pay. [[Applause]] That's the Galician model, the model of "I invite you and you pay for it." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But apart from this hairstyle, it seems very nice to us to measure it, it looks very good, and that's why we're taking it to our electoral program. Because Galicia is on the line of the state in environmental policies. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said two years ago that for the first time in history humanity is consciously destroying the ecological systems that support our lives. And because there is an ecological and climate emergency, we propose to declare the climate emergency, as many countries have done, including Spain, and so many cities and most of the autonomous communities, less Galicia and some more of the PP. This has already been agreed in 2019, but unbelievably the Board continues to disregard this resolution of declaring the climate emergency in Galicia, which leads me to ask: what are you converting the resolutions and the agreements of this Parliament? Because in 2009, the instance of the PP itself, adopts a resolution, number 46 -- because if you want to consult it and I quote literally -- that says that "the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to declare the state of climate emergency in Galicia with the primary objective of compromising the policies of the Greek Government in dealing with the climate emergency." And two years later you were unable to comply with your own agreement, which is also that of this House. What credibility do you have? I wonder if they have any kind of credibility. How many agreements do you make in this House? We don't know, because you don't even report, as the Galician Transparency Act points out, in Article 19, that you have to publish an annual report on the degree of compliance with Parliament's agreements. But you break the law and publish with three years of delay a little paper that doesn't say what law is to be published, but a little paper that says it's 99%. That's what you say, but they don't say how, which, or what degree, and they put figures there that are completely false, because we all know that much of this Parliament's agreements of the past legislation have not been complied with. And as you do not comply with the Transparency and Governance Act in Galicia since opacity, nepotism, favoritism and discretionality, we also propose a control plan for the Government of Galicia and the public sector in Galicia that includes measures for transparency and control of corruption and the legality of public office and employment designations, so that you do not continue to be inspired by the true grand model of Galician PP, which is the Baltar model, where more than 80% of contracts and grants are distributed finger to PP friendly companies and PP councils. That's your great model. [[Applause]] We also propose a strategy for the renaturalization of Galicia that contemplates fighting the pollution of our rivers and rivers, which for you are fantastically, but of which you yourself recognize in your data -- that is, we are going to say, frankly optimistic, by euphemistically -- that 22% do not meet the European Union parameters. We also propose the protection of the native forest, which is in clear regression in our community, despite its inventories, which are little less than magical; the real protection of Spain's smallest Natura Network, which is 12% of our protected territory, when the state average is 27%, and it's not even real that protection, because the international environmentalist organization WWF says that the plan director of the Galician Natura Network is -- literally -- "the worst in Spain." A Nature Network that we propose, moreover, to expand, according to the project that it has already left in 2009 the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, and a waste management model that exceeds Sogama's and not bets on incineration, but on recycling, because we believe it's time to change Galician environmental policies, because it's time for the ecological transition and because it's time to take advantage of all the funds that Europe and the Spanish Government themselves make available to autonomous communities who want to bet on that model. But you're not betting, and instead you're betting for maximizing economism or green propaganda. Galicia now has a useful agricultural area of 20% of its territory, one of the lowest in Europe, which in Germany or France exceeds 40%. We have lost over 250,000 hectares of useful agricultural surface in recent decades, and one third of our municipalities are walking towards disappearance, while in Galicia over the last few decades we have dropped by 25 % our agricultural income, when in Andalusia it doubled; that is, Galicia drops by 25 % and Andalusia doubles its agricultural income, which gives an idea of the ineffectiveness of the agricultural policies of the Union and its governments for thirty-four of the forty years of autonomy. The German forestry sector, which accounts for 50 % of Spain's cut wood, only provides 13 % of invoicing and employment, and with 40 % of Spain's milk production we only provide 11 % of invoicing and 7% of employment in the dairy sector, in which they closed a huge amount of holdings. This is the data. I'm sorry to have to say that objectively, and beyond my personal opinion or anyone's, they're very bad. So we propose an independent rural development agency, inspired by the Scottish model, and measures to dynamize the rural environment, including measures against financial exclusion, because it can't be that the branches are closed and you say the responsibilities are central government. By the way, they present a proposal on that line, while subsidizing the implantation of a cashier right where they close branches. I mean, a branch is closed, usually from Galicia's largest financial institution, which is Abanca, and you, followed-up act, finance us for a cashier. [[Applause]] That, of course, is nonsense, absurd and is financing financial exclusion. That's what you've been doing since Galicia: financing financial exclusion, subsidizing financial exclusion. There are nearly 300,000 empty homes in Galicia, the largest proportion of the state. But, however, there is a shortage of housing and prices for insumable rents for many people, say what Mr. Married and say what the People's Party says; insumable for many people, especially for younger people. And we intend to overcome the almost absolute absence of a public housing policy since 2009 by doubling the public housing park in five years. Because in the past legislation -- this is the data -- 24 public promotion housing was completed, 24!, when the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño made more than 10,000. That's the disproportionateness. With the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño there was a policy of public housing, with you there is no public housing policy, which is propaganda, abundant propaganda. Propaganda increases, housing decreases; public housing decreases as its propaganda increases exponentially. And we aim to consciously reformulate a new wind model to minimize the environmental and social impact and maximize the economic benefit to the territory, ensuring the installation of wind power sufficient to carry out the energy transition. Because Galicia imports 70% -- around 70% -- of the energy it consumes in the form of oil and gas, with obvious climate impact. To replace that power, decarbonize and reach a zero impact on the climate and to achieve climate neutrality you have to bet on renewables, but neatly. We have to bet systematically and neatly, and that doesn't happen in Galicia. You have skills. It's true that the state has powers, but you can mark a certain trend in our wind model and certain priorities and certain singularities in our wind model. And the president of the Galician Wind Association says that what happens in Galicia is "the law of the jungle" -- literally quote --, the law of the jungle, while the president of the Galician Wind Observatory changes the law a little and says it's "the law of the west." I don't say it, tell the industry experts; I mean, I'm not inventing anything, that's what two experts in the sector think like the president of the Galician Wind Association and the most responsible of the Galician Wind Observatory. So we'll have to change. And you don't tell us that we're against the wind, we're in favor of the wind, but of an orderly wind, and that you're marking a system that allows the progressive and regular deployment, every year, of the wind energy needed to make the transition energy. But what they're doing right now is completely paralyzing the sector, at the same time generating alarm, confusion and all kinds of problems. It's your responsibility. We propose they change the wind model consciously; we hear them hand to do so. And since we are federalists and Galeguists, we propose once again to advance in self-government. I want to emphasize that we are respectful of nationalism as ideology and that we agree with BNG in the common space of Galicianism, but we reject separatism because it only leads the rich to separate themselves from the poor and to generate discord, disorder and poverty. We have the utmost desire for consensus and dialogue at one time, marked by the health and economic crisis, in which citizenship demands understanding, and we have been facing this debate on the state of Autonomy since the zero minute since that open and proactive attitude. [[Applause]] And that's why we've dealt with seven proposals yesterday with the People's Party, while the PP has dealt two with us, which indicates that our desire for dialogue is 350% higher than its own. We have 3.5 times more desire for dialogue and consensus than the PP, the content of this data. And that, obviously, without counting on the final vote on the proposals, where we shall surely vote in favour of several of the PP and the PP, of course, will not vote in favour of any of us. [[Applause]] We therefore believe in this debate our will to agree and dialogue and the PP is still in time to do so. Nothing else and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u6	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. This debate of the nation's state is taking place in the same year -- you know it -- in what you are aware of the adoption of the 1981 Statute and the thirty-two years of the first general policy debate, held on 14 March 1989. I was born in September of that year. Like me, four people in this Chamber -- four more people in this Chamber -- had not yet been born when the first debate took place in the state of Autonomy. We are five people born between 1989 and 1996, the last millenniums and the first of the "Z Generation" in Galicia, of two different political forces. So many birthdays and Statutory Commemoration, so new was born from the pandemic, invites me -- they will agree with me -- to a generational reflection, although it must also be said that not a single person under the age of 40 has passed for any of the acts that this Parliament has hosted to celebrate the date. Curious! [[Applause]] And the first reflection is there. Youth is the future, obviously, but above all we are present, we are already here. And looking back, indeed, in this country there are more health centers today than there were in March 1989 -- it was just missing! -- there are more miles of roads and highways -- less bad! -- we're going in cars, more electric, and we live in light houses, even though we've paid a lot more for it than thirty years ago. The question is, gentlemen, are we building a country that offers more opportunities than a decade ago? What vital expectations does a 32-year-old gal today have? It's the most formed generation, the most prepared generation in history, but also the one that, instead of inflating the curriculum, hides the title of master to see if he has more possibilities than they take it. What a paradox, right? All our mothers and our countries are trying to get us to college, why we were studying the career and we had the enabling master degree, why we had the English title, and now we have to hide the titles so we can opt for a job, because if not, you have too many wage expectations. [[Applause]] What are the conditions under which young people in Greece are living today through two crises? This is also the face of this country, a generation between the ages of 20 and 35 who live, or will live in worse conditions, for the first time in history, than their parents. Moreover, the pandemic has worsened what were already negative conditions for loss of wages, increased temporality and work insecurity, public debt and demographic ageing. This was said by the Banco de España, not by the Nationalist Block Galego. They call it the cheated generation, to whom they promised the world would surrender to their feet nothing else we went out through the college door, and the only thing they found was the unemployment line with more people than the line of the Route or Maycar in the rush hour. [[Applause]] That gave him a very cheap ticket to work in London. "International mobility", according to the president of this House, youth emigration, to the common mortals, and a social and economic drama to any country. That does divide families. [[Applause]] Anyone 30 years of age today would need to charge twice as much as money in order to buy a house and be able to eat while he pays the mortgage. Paying the rent means spending more than half the salary on income -- that's if you have a job -- That's easier to understand than in Galicia today -- in Galicia today -- we have the second worst rate of youth emancipation in people between 30 and 34 years of age from all over Spain, just behind the Canary Islands. It's data from the Emancipation Observatory and the Injuve. I ask them the same question again: are we building a gift that offers more opportunities for the future? The answer is, no. But it's not for more than a decade. They've been telling us the last two days in this debate of the nation's state -- and really the last twelve years -- that this is what there is, that the maximum we can aspire to is to see with resignation a country that is going to be doing a little bit smaller every day: smaller in population, smaller in employment, smaller in industry and smaller in innovation. And they're trying to make us believe that the country doesn't give any more of itself, that this is all it can give. And at a decisive moment like this, in which we find ourselves, after a pandemic that not only put legs up our whole life, but that marked the beginning, probably, of a new era, at a decisive moment, of great transformations, in which the decisions we make today will mark the model of society for the next decades, which tells us the youth of this country in particular, but the society generally speaks for itself, that expression in English that comes to you as a ring to your finger, is: business as usual; that of always, that we will return to the usual, to normality. But it turns out that the normal thing was exactly what brought us here, what caused this chaos, that didn't start with the coward. [[Applause]] We still haven't recovered the rights we were robbed of in the previous crisis and they're already tightening up and preparing for the rights we'll lose in the next one. But the truth is, we don't need to go back to the old days, we have to break up with that usual business. We don't need to go back to the usual, but new ideas, new tools, and, above all, lift the brake that you and your policies represent for this country. Because what's missing is not the country, no, what's missing are you. [[Applause]] These days Mr. Martínez spoke a lot about the Councillor of Fairy, obviously. I remember the biggest memories I have, in addition to the retreat and tone of the debates -- especially after eating, of which he himself laughed -- it was the day we received -- I don't know if you remember -- the Budget Project for 2019, with a very heading of Mr. Martínez's style and his team -- once again, as to all of his lords of the People's Party, and to his family, of course, our greatest affection-- In this Budget Project for 2019 there was an epigraph that perfectly synthesized, in three words, the political context between Galicia and Spain: fog in Pedrafita. Remember? And as far beyond the political and ideological distance, which was and is sidereal, it was a person to whom we had a lot of appreciation, to me it seemed a good way to surrender, I don't know whether to pay tribute, but at least remember, to explain -- how he did in that budget project for 2019 -- what is happening today politically in this country in the most Greek way that exists, which is talking about time. Look, in Lugo -- and generally in Galicia, in any country or place in the world where it rains a lot -- people, when it starts falling water, usually say it's bad weather. Then everybody likes to come here and see green, native green, not that of the eucalyptus -- no one comes to this country to see eucalyptus, so they don't appear in any promotional image of Turkey-- [[Applause]] But, well, I, over the years, learned that, when you see rain -- thanks also to a friend who lived for years in Germany -- when it starts raining, you have to think that there's no bad time. There's no bad time, all there's is inappropriate clothes. And you will say, what does that have to do with the debate of the nation's state? Well, with the countries, ladies and gentlemen, it happens exactly the same as with the rain: the country doesn't lack, but the suit. And the suit is the Government, that is, you, who have been exercising and holding it for twelve years, being strict and on the date we are. We have been ruled by the People's Party thirty-four of the 40 years of autonomy. Part of the suit is you, but also the political framework so commemorated on these dates. That's a narrow suit, that's two or three sizes smaller than you need and, above all, it deserves this country. [[Applause]] Look, in Galicia, there is no demographic crisis because the Galicians have no children, as we hear here on the first day of the state debate of the nation through the mouth of the president of the Galician Union. As the women carried little slates on, now one more... the guilt of the crisis and the demographic hecatomb of this country is yours, which little parides. [[Applause]] No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not that they have no children in Galicia, but that they've had children in Switzerland for decades, in Belgium, in Bilbao, in Madrid, in Barcelona... [[Applause]] Also, Galicia is not in the queue of science, research, knowledge generation because we don't have talent, creativity, capacity or universities and research centers at the highest level, but because with you in the Government today we have less investment than in 2008. We didn't even get to 1 percent of the gross domestic product. [[Applause]] Neither have 14,700 jobs in industry been destroyed in this country since you govern, I don't know if by some sort of biblical plague or divine condemnation, but because we have a government unable to save even one -- not one single! -- from companies in crisis in twelve years, not one, and much less from generating new industrial opportunities, taking advantage of the country's own resources, including electricity, which is also one more productive resource. [[Applause]] Galicia does not fail, nor does it fail the Galicians or the Greeks, there is a government without any more ambition than the electoral interest itself and the economic lobby friends of the People's Party, that these yes, tremendous business have assembled!, call it Iberdrola, call it Audasa, call it Ence, call it Abanca, call it DomusVi, rivers with obscene amounts of public money and with a legislation to measure their interests. [[Applause]] Not that suit, it doesn't look small, and if it stays small, they change it. For them there are so many crises that one, two, that three... they don't lose a euro; on the contrary, they still earn more. [[Applause]] At the BNG, which, as we said on the first day of the debate, as the national spokesperson Ana Pontón said, we are optimistic about will and reason, and we believe with absolute conviction that we have a great country that has everything to be the envy of Europe, we today bring to this second part of the debate of the nation's state 40 motions for resolution with a fundamental objective: to leave behind resignation by putting Galicia's wealth, potential and talent at the service of the country, of the Galician and the Greeks, of the social majority, of the workers and of the country's workers and not of a handful of multinationals; forty motions for resolutions that revolve around three great ideas: a Galician with more decision-making power, a Galician more socially fair and a Galician with more opportunities. A Galician with more power of decision means a Galician more wife of herself, with more political weight, who leaves twelve years behind without a single new competence transferred to demand the transfer of pending powers, both those collected in the 1981 Statute and those already agreed upon, subject to unanimous agreements in this House itself. Enhancing the political decision-making capacity also means expanding the country’s own economic capacity with a new financing model that has exceeded the current one and expired since 2014. We need to have the key to our money, because this country is neither subsidised nor poor; in any case, it will be impoverished. A model of funding that makes us more women of our own, but above all, that makes the country have the economic resources necessary for the care of public services and the coverage of social needs. [[Applause]] But at the BNG we want to go further and not give up that this country opens a broad debate, a serene debate, a democratic debate with a high level of vision to make Galicia move towards a new political status; not like a mantra or a flag that shakes and tracks her side-by-face, not as a toolbox needed to talk about rights, to talk about better living and working conditions, opportunities and public services in this country. [[Applause]] Tools to be able to cope with the enormous, enormous challenges that we have before us, and for what we don't need a suit that was already narrow in 1981 and is still more so today, converted, as you did in twelve years, into a dead law, into a law that is neither met nor enforced. In a country like ours, we can't talk about rights, social welfare or living and working conditions without questioning a political centralism that only concentrates power, wealth and population 600 kilometers from here. A Galician more woman than himself, with more self-government and also building a more quality democracy. This brought them out a little bit of sarpulity on the first day of the debate, because it must seem to them -- I don't know -- very democratic having a real fugitive, we don't know very well what emirate, which can't even be judged. That can't even be judged! [[Applause]] Or live in a state where power chiefs command more than government presidents. [[Applause]] A more quality democracy through the impulse of a clear, bold and courageous legislation that puts an end to the turning doors. A fiscal reform that really pursues fraud, more citizen participation in daily political life. Empowering the Galicians themselves, who are part of the decision-making processes with absolute normality on matters that concern them, which concern them and, above all, directly affect them through the convening of popular consultations, as in the most advanced countries of Europe. And also more and better democracy -- which, in addition, is the 178th Black Friday in CRTVG -- through free and independent media, which guarantee a basic right and a fundamental right in any democratic system, which is the right to true information, objective information and close to citizens and citizens. [[Applause]] To end the abnormal situation we've been living in this country for a decade, in which the CEO -- against what the law says -- continues to hold a single position and only the finger. We change the 2011 Public Media Act and that this general address is chosen and renewed through a public contest of merit between professional and independent people. A more sovereign Galician and, secondly, a fairer Galician, that blinds and strengthens public services, essentially health and education, but also social rights. If something has left evidence of the pandemic, that of the coward-19, it was the seams of primary care, completely exhausted, as its professionals today, and in the chassis after twelve years of personnel and budget cuts, but also that in this country -- that also made it visible, for those who wanted to see it, the coward -- care, such as subjective social rights, inherent to everyone, are an intellect, but an intellect held in the back of women, or either those of the house or those precautioned in absolutely scalable services. [[Applause]] Galicia needs a strong public service network and ensures social co-responsibility in the care and care of dependents. And that goes through a new model of public residences, but also a network of proximity services that put people at the center, not the economic interests of DomusVi or the San Rosendo Foundation; no, people, who are the users of these services. And, of course, yes, children's schools from 0 to 3 years free, free and public! Because if we don't, we're going to find ourselves in the same situation as we have in the residences and day centers, and all we're going to do is drain more public money to keep eating the private. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I repeat it here again, do you know how much it costs us a year for the concession and concertation in the residences? Seventy-four million euros public, the tap, to fill the pockets of the same companies that control the sector. Seventy-four million euros public is 10 million euros more than the risk per year! [[Applause]] There's money, but it's barely distributed. A more just Galician social and a Galician with more rights. These days the People's Party -- the most ultra, thrown into the mountain already completely since that trip that they had Valencia, thrown off, insisted, to the mountain, and more ultra after that ideological revival -- says he wants to return us to women in 1985. It's just that they don't just let this country move, they want to drag us to the past. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And get out of the moderate sector. [[Applause]] It took less time to remove the Gallardón carauta than this new mayor of Madrid. They want to return to 1985 on women's right to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy in 1985! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Abort, but look for your life to do it. [[Murmurs.]] The BNG proposal, included in the motions for resolutions that are being debated and voted today, is very clear: right to abortion itself, but also in public health. In this country today, with data from Sergas, 77% of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy take place in private network clinics, contrary to what the law says, 77%! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The rights of women and LGBT people, rejecting with all clarity and roundness the hate speeches that seriously threaten human dignity and condition, but also rejecting with all clarity and roundness any covenant with the far right, which is the one behind them, with their hate speech, those acts of aggression that undermine human dignity and the dignity of people. That's the only violence that exists today in this country, the machist, racist and homophobic. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] A more sovereign Galician...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u8	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u9	A more sovereign Galician, fairer, but also with more opportunities. Because today justice is also the right to live and work in this country in dignified conditions, not at any price, both for present and future generations. That's the third major axis of BNG's proposals; proposals that bet on wealth generation and right employment. The R & D+i as an engine of social, economic, cultural and human development, but a clear and determined commitment by research, development and innovation where it has to be done, which is not with large announcements, which are already recycled, which we have heard here for months, but with a real commitment in budgets for 2022: to commit 3% of the budget of the Union for 2022 in science and research, to create the Innugal as a program for retention and talent capture and, above all, to guarantee sufficient economic resources to those who today create more than 70% of knowledge in our country, which is the university system of Galicia. To guarantee a budget in the new University Financing Plan, which refers to 1.5% of gross domestic product; new opportunities that generate wealth and employment, taking advantage of transitional moments like this; and to fight against the climate crisis of digitisation, of the ecological transition, an opportunity, because that is the debate we have now on the table. That's what's at stake. Who's going to take advantage of this moment? Who's going to get cut off from this moment and the changes that are coming and the ones that are already running? Will the majority of them be social workers and workers, or will they be a handful of businesses? Reindustrialize the country by betting in traditional sectors -- such as agriculture, forestry, fishing, naval or car industry -- but also opening up new horizons where Galicia can and must also be a power, such as technology, biopharmaceuticals, the care sector, which gives us both economic and social returns, or rehabilitation, for example housing. Put on long lights. And what we bring here is two very specific proposals: on the one hand, a plan to promote technological and industrial activity, with the aim of raising industry's participation in our country's gross domestic product to 25% on a 2030 horizon and promoting construction, the creation of added value-oriented industrial fabric, the transformation of the raw materials we produce in our country, generating skilled and quality jobs, but also with rights. And, on the other hand, a plan to empower the industrial sector and the Welsh Employment Strategy 2025, which drives the creation of 50,000 jobs in industrial sectors and also linked to the major transformations that are under way, putting special emphasis on girls, young people, in the incorporation into the labour market, also women, in the incorporation of women into still very masculine sectors, taking advantage of new professional profiles that are already demanded in the Welsh labour market today that allow generational relevance in the primary sector, inclusive digitalization in our country, robotics, the betting on artificial intelligence, rehabilitation -- as it said -- of housing, or the generation of knowledge through science and research. In short, ladies and gentlemen -- and with this ending -- we are at the forefront of a new time in which the economic and political revenues that led us to a new devastating crisis are not worth. The answer to the challenges that we face as a country, as Greeks and as Greeks, is to assume more decision-making capacity over our own lives, to promote self-centred development that is affixed to the resources of the country itself, which is respectful of the environment and people; to create fiscal and financial instruments to the service of the social majority that become a pans of modernization and collective well-being. The answer to the challenges that we have before us is to promote the activation of the economic, traditional, strategic sectors, also opening up new horizons, to boost the role of science and research as what it is, one more productive sector, to generate equity and social and territorial cohesion and to put in place the great technological and digital transformation of Galician society. Because it's in moments of rupture and transition like these when suddenly -- as Rebecca Solnit said -- she's chorusing new opportunities. What we need to answer to this country is the question of who will take advantage of this moment. We, from BNG, believe that it's the Greeks and the Greeks, the whole country, who should take advantage of it, because they've made us too many times lost that opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. After this defense covered by Galicia's self-determination, and this allegation in favor of anticapitalism, I invite them to speak of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] The true character of people, their ethical height and their moral height is demonstrated in the most difficult moments. In the difficulties, women, men and political organizations have to prove what money is made. And that's why, as secretary-general of the Galician People's Party, I want to thank all the demonstrations of respect we've received over the past week for the death of our colleague Valeriano Martínez. We thank them all, the most sincere ones, the product of affection or professional respect, and also those that come from the false courtesy of those who did not have generosity or empathy for delaying five days a debate like this because it was not adjusted to their electoral calendar. [[Applause]] And so, since the People's Party in Galicia, we have faced this debate of the state of autonomy with a government and with a party wounded in emotional, but probably stronger and more motivated than ever. It's true that we didn't have time to cry the sudden march of our partner, but it's also true that with our work we're honoring the memory of our companion and friend Valeriano Martínez. Rest in peace. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago a vast majority of Greeks gave their confidence to the Galician People's Party and charged it with leading the Government of Galicia in one of the most difficult moments in our recent history. They reiterated and expanded a trust that had already given us in 2016, in 2012 and also in 2009. They wanted a stable government, a single government, a united government, a serious government, and a working government; a government, ultimately, that was up to the circumstances. And we believe that the Galician People's Party and Alberto Núñez Feijóo did not fail in that deposited trust. Just over a year after the election, the president of the Galician board has presented himself in this debate of the state of Autonomy to render accounts, once again, before the House and before the Greeks. He took stock of all that he had achieved during this year of work and sat down the foundations of the years to come. He told a stable Galician that he fulfilled his institutional and democratic commitments in time and in form. Because the best indicator of the health of a democracy, the best thermometer of how things are, is institutional normality. To normally hold a debate about the state of autonomy, to present the accounts in the times set by law, can be nimity for the Socialist Party or its partners in the Galician Nationalist Block, but for the Greeks there are certainly indicators that things go well, that at least in Galicia the laws, the Constitution and democratic institutions respect and function properly. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday, the president made the balance of a advancing Galician community, a community that surpassed the rest of Spain -- bad that it does -- the crisis of the coronavirus, both in terms of health and in terms of economics. In terms of health, we are the autonomous peninsula community with lower rates of infection and mortality. I would like the opposition to welcome this data. Unfortunately, it's not like that. In economic terms we are a functioning economy, the Greek economy resisted better than the average of Spain the impact of the pandemic by 2020. Spain's GDP fell by 10,8 %, and in Galicia by 8,9 %. Mr. Orange, check the data. Despite the serious crisis that the coronavirus has had, Galicia is already beginning to overcome the pre- pandemic figures in many economic indicators and well-being, and the forecasts for the recovery of the Greek GDP -- 6.8% -- exceed the Spanish average, Mr Aranguena. We've had the best numbers of unemployment and social security membership for 12 years, Mr. Arunguena. In this decade we've been among the five most indebted communities in all of Spain -- after the two-party government -- to be among the five less indebted autonomous communities in our country today. It's a royal Galician that comes to a lot more people than emigration, Mrs. Rodil, which dismantles that usual mantra of the nationalists. This past year there are 16,000 more youths who have come out of our community. It's a Galician that recovers its tourist pull, as much as it bothers that BNG closed in on itself and that thinks of a small Galician who doesn't have to receive tourists and that Jacob is negative to our community. It's a Galician well-being that celebrates the best educational indicators in our history, with university rates frozen for almost a decade and with the second best teacher/student ratio in all of Spain. And that's an achievement that can't be taken from this government. We count on the biggest investment in health care in our history. As much as it bothers you, it's an unappealable, unquestionable data, the rest is literally lying in this House. It's the biggest investment in health in our history, with a 26% increase in the last decade, with 90 new and renewed health centers since 2009 and with the improvement of all Galician comarcas hospitals. [[Applause]] In short, it's a responsible Galicia that did things well during times of kindness, which allowed us in these difficult times to invest and continue to lower taxes and continue to reduce debt. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the president came to speak of a advancing Galicia, which despite the difficulties he has achieved with great effort and responsibility to get ahead. It is true that we are not fully satisfied. Much remains to be done yet, indeed, and there are many challenges we face as government and as society. And that's why the president also introduced a battery of measurements and a battery of immediate challenges that must face our community. In short, the Government has come to this House to present a real-time photo of real Galicia, a real-time photo of real Galicia, not of that apocalyptic Galicia in which some opposition parties are installed in the "how much worse, better". On the other hand, I am not quite clear that the opposition to this debate has come. I suppose they're thinking about other things. They're on the one hand thinking or trying to win primarys, and they've tried to turn this debate of the state of autonomy into a TV set where they win votes in their personal careers within their own parties. They came to this chamber with the autopilot put on and reciting the same mantras as ever, the same expired recipes that have not only been shown to have never worked anywhere, but they are also mantras and recipes that systematically the Welsh people, when called to the polls, refused in a tax-rate manner. But you don't learn any lessons. You come here with your particular catechism, first, to speak of a Galician that is not as you paint it and then to defend political mantras in which you've been installed decades, political mantras that have been rejected again and again by the Greeks every time they've had an opportunity to think about them. The People's Group has just registered 40 motions for resolutions for this debate -- I'll talk about our proposals --. These are 40 proposals that can be grouped into four groups: the first ones on welfare and public services; the second ones on industry, employment and the primary sector; the third group, infrastructure; and finally self-government and institutions. In the first group -- well-being and public services -- we have a decrease in the price of electricity bill, both for families and for large companies. Mr. Aranguena, of course we urge the Government of the State to put solutions to the problems that the Government of the State has created!, of course yes! There will always be the People's Party of Galicia. I'm sorry that the Socialist Party is not, because you can't ask that Ferraz to look at anything with a magnifying eye to see how obedient they are, how obedient they are, to see whether they support them or not in those primarys -- which is the only thing that you care about --. [[Applause]] Another of the issues we demand in our proposals is that the Board includes a new tax reduction in the budgets of 2022. You can lower taxes to make the economy work, why doesn't the Government of Spain, Mr. Aranguena? Why don't you use a recipe that has proved useful at times like the ones we're living in? Thus, to rule as you intend, it's very simple. We call on our initiatives, indeed, for the Government of Spain to put in place a comprehensive plan against financial exclusion in rural areas, because this is a problem that not only affects Galicia, it affects the whole rural area of the country. Who has instruments is the Government of Spain and the Bank of Spain. So, of course, we urge the Government of Spain to make decisions. We demand that the public housing park be expanded in Galicia and that autonomous communities be opened up to develop this future state housing law. We call for the Galician Transport Area to be launched universally free of charge and the reductions in metropolitan transport. We urge the municipalities, like Vigo's, Mr. Arunguena, to join that transport plan as well. We call for a new model of the integral water cycle to be promoted, in collaboration with the municipalities and the MPs, or for continuing to fight against gender-based violence, and for new measures to promote equality between men and women. With regard to public services, first of all -- and as a matter of concern to us -- in order to provide the system for all professionals that are necessary to meet the needs of the Greeks, we call on the Central Government to eliminate the reposition rates in public job offers calls. And we'll be very careful what you vote for. Because the resolution of many of the problems that the Galician Union has are solved this way. Are you going to dare, together with us, to ask the Government of Spain to eliminate those replacement rates? Unfortunately, I'm afraid not. We advocate the introduction of new measures to ensure quality and integrative teaching in the Italian language. We also advocate the implementation of new measures to ensure that universities have stable funding for the period 2022-2026, that digitisation and innovation are promoted in the culture of Galicia, that new primary care planning is carried out and that infrastructures are improved both in public health centres and in public hospitals. We also call on the Central Government to contribute to the financing of the total freeness of children's schools from 0 to 3 years. We just asked for it a year ago and you didn't support us! But you know what happens? That from the next course the children's schools will be free for all the children of the Galician families, with the support of the Government or without it. And you know what I'm sure of? [[Applause]] Which will be without the support of that government to whom you so much defend. The second group of initiatives has to do with industry, employment and the primary sector. First, it is the signing of a pact of State for Ferrol with the presence of all public administrations, which adds the creation of a territorial delegation from Galicia to the county of Ferrolterra and the request to the Government of the State for the establishment of a free zone in Ferrol. Will you support this? Because you know that the President of the Union sent a letter to the President of the Government in May to ask the Government of Spain to include in this state pact. And you know what happened? His president hasn't answered Galicia since May and Ferrol hasn't answered. That's what matters to the Government of Spain Galicia and that's what matters to the Government of Spain the situation of a region like the region I come from. We also ask the Central Government for a fair and orderly ecological and energy transition, which facilitates the maintenance of production and employment in companies like Alcoa, such as Ence -- from the Ence you're sure they don't speak today, because motions for resolutions have not presented any -- like Iberian Alu or as the thermal power plant of the Bridges -- whose imminent return to operation shows that their eco-transition policy has been improvised and a monumental error --. You continue to applaud that government which punishes both the industry and the employment of our community. In addition, we ask the Council of Galicia to design the first textile fibre factory in Spain, to close the wood cycle and install it in the province of Lugo. We propose a boost to the research career that guarantees greater professionalism and stability and the design of a Welsh agenda of work skills and needs. As far as the primary sector is concerned, we call for support for pastoral milk holdings through the recognition of its peculiarities in the new CAP; the establishment of agroforestry polygons and the implementation of the new forest plan; the design of a Greek strategy for the blue economy; and the definition of a proposal for the revision of the Common Fisheries Policy that addresses the current challenges for sustainable, equitable and prosperous fishing. In terms of infrastructure, what we propose in our motions for resolutions is the fulfilment of the commitment of the Government of Spain to the arrival of the AVE to Galicia -- compliance, Mr. Arangüena, with the arrival of the AVE to Galicia -- and that this is this fall, as was committed when the minister was Mr. Abalos -- that they defended -- that they provide April trains, as well as the modernization of the Greek railway network -- it is of no use to finalize the works if you don't provide that infrastructure of the trains that can guarantee the reduction of time on the routes --. And we call for the inclusion in the State budgets for 2022 of Galicia's historical needs for road infrastructure. In those budgets that you applaud so much, we have to tell you that the highway that connects Lugo to Santiago is late until 2025. If you think that's receipt, there you are. In the issue of self-governance and institutional development, we are proposing that the Board present the conclusions of the competence demarcation audit between the Autonomous Administration and the Councils, we propose that the transfer of priority competences to Galicia be expedited -- in particular that of AP-9 --, the management of the public domain in the maritime-terrestrial sector and the management of the minimum vital income, as well as the establishment of a system of real co-governance of European funds. All Galicia knows we're going to be defrauded by Pedro Sánchez's government in the distribution of these funds. We would like to count on your support, with the support of the Socialist Party, in the defense of what Galicia deserves, in the defense of what Galicia needs. [[Applause]] We call for multilateral dialogue in the negotiation of the new system of autonomous financing and the request for the Central Government to maintain in the State budgets by 2022 the Covid Fund, so that the autonomous communities continue to have these extraordinary resources to cope with a situation that remains extraordinary. Within the institutional sphere, our proposals are directed at the impulse and support of Xacobeo 2021-2022, the defence of the Greek language and its dynamization in the socio-economic fabric, the impulse of the Galicia Digital Strategy 2030, the recovery of historical memory and the claim of property property with cultural value illegally incorporated into the heritage of the Franco family, or to promote the personal and family integration of the returned persons. There is an initiative in which I would like to focus, an initiative that we have proposed and which we have agreed to with the Socialist Party through a transaction. This is our motion for a resolution number 39. We want the BNG to stand explicitly on this issue. BNG believes that there is little democratic quality in Galicia and we want to measure the democratic health of the Galician Nationalist Block with this initiative. And, therefore, since this resolution is the result of an agreement, a transaction with the Socialist Party, we want to know whether the BNG is with the Socialist Party and the People's Party -- ultimately, with the constitutionalists -- or whether it is on the side of those who want to break the system. As part of the 40th anniversary of the Statute of Autonomy, we renew our commitment to the Spanish Constitution and to the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia -- I suppose they will agree, Mrs. Pontón --. We reaffirm our self-government and reject separatist and independent positions -- I suppose they're in favor --. And we condemn violence and all those who use it as a way to make politics -- I suppose they won't have any obstacle to voting in favour of this initiative; of course, it will be important for us to know what they are doing --. I would like to comment on the time when I have left behind the initiatives presented by the various opposition groups. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you're presenting a battery of resolutions that haven't been updated since last year, or you haven't even heard the president's speech. In any case, they claim that they are completely subject to what they have been sent from Madrid. That's PSdEG-PSOE. Among the initiatives of the copy and paste, of the cut and paste, is draft resolution No. 35. They ask for the price of day care, when the president announced his gratuity. I guess they didn't have time. They're with the primarys, they're in their own. In motion for a resolution No. 27 they call for a plan to help get out of the crisis of the warehouse, when three have been approved and we have recently solved the problems imposed by the Government of Spain with a series of administrative obstacles that have hampered their last. His submission to Madrid is also very present in his initiatives. In motion for a resolution No. 21 you ask us to cover all the squares by maximizing the replenishment rate, but do not dare ask the central government to eliminate the replacement rate. You're not very brave. In motion for a resolution No. 22 they call for us to provide medical facilities for primary care, but at the MIR squares that depend on the Government of Spain there is no mention. You're still very brave. Finally, total and absolute submission to Madrid. Nothing new on the other side. As far as curiosity is concerned, I want to tell you about two initiatives that have strongly brought us to our attention. In motion for a resolution No. 25 you call for the development of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, which was unanimously adopted in this Parliament, when it is the mayor of Vigo who has paralyzed it -- a mayor of the PSOE I suppose they know him, who knows him quite well --. Draft resolution No. 8 calls for an anti-corruption plan. Mr. Aranguena, sure, from the Socialist Party of Galicia? It seems good to us, but it is curious that you ask for it, when the only one charged in recent years for corruption here in Galicia belongs to your party -- Mr. Lineres --. Do you know that I was pointing all the bites to finance you don't know what? Are you sure they're asking for an anti-corruption plan? It'll be for the Socialist Party. As far as the initiatives of the German Nationalist Block are concerned, the truth is, they don't look much better than they do. They start with a battery of resolutions that go against the law, the Autonomy Statute or, in general, the established order. Here we have Ana Pontón converted into the leadership of the anticapitalism of Greek bannering that of "nationalise", as if that were the solution to all the problems. You go to Ferrol, where the yards are public 100 percent, to see if public ownership solves the problem. Isn't that true? Who can solve it is the Government of Spain that you have appointed and which, of course, does not solve it but makes it worse. Yesterday's heads came down when the president asked them about their position in the face of independence. And the truth is they start in their motions for resolutions by speaking of Galicia as a nation and proposing the creation of Greek embassies abroad -- importing the Otege and Junqueras model to Galicia -- and they want to eliminate the Civil Guard from Galicia's roads. Well, I think it's the same block as ever, as long as I try to present a more modern face. Include your populism dose. In motion for resolution No. 37 they call for popular referendums in Galicia, importing the model of 1 October Catalan. In motion for resolution No. 22 they propose the rescue of the strategic sectors, of all sectors -- a massive nationalization of the Welsh industry --. The truth is, they took care of their proposals, their initiatives. But the most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to see what happens with that motion for a resolution that we have tabled to you. We'll like to see, and we'll be especially careful, if this BNG actually practices that moderation of what Mrs. Pontón has told us in her intervention or if it remains the radical BNG of forever. Mr. Aranguena, in your speech you say that half of our proposals are against the Government of Sánchez. And don't you make him think? Does it not make you think that most of the problems that Galicia suffers are because of the management, or lack of management, of the government that you so strongly defend in this House? And how much do you claim to Sanchez? You're nothing, you're nothing! This is what Mr. Arangüena is about to defend Galicia. Are you willing to come here to defend Galicia, yes or no? The truth is, no, you come to this debate about the state of autonomy to see if Ferraz supports them to continue in front of the PSdEG-PSOE. Sorry about the role of the Socialist Party! [[Applause]] It is insulting, insulting!, that the Socialist Party of Galicia proposes in the motions for resolutions a pact by industry, when the Welsh industry is threatened by this erratic energy policy of the socialist government. Do you know what's the best deal for industry? Tell the Government of Spain to take their hands off the Spanish energy policy, which is drowning so many industries that they see themselves shut down. It's really unfortunate that they come here to teach such lessons. Galicia loses population and the blame lies with the PP, according to Mr. Aranguena's speech. It must be that all the inhabitants who lost Galicia in the last decade, since 2009, were socialists, because you've moved from 25 seats to 14 seats. I think the quality of that kind of speech is what led them to lose those seats. [[Applause]] You're talking about the Next Generation funds. If everyone knows that the Government will punish Galicia by diverting funds that would correspond to our community to other communities on which Mr Sánchez's parliamentary support depends! I appreciate the sincerity, because you in your intervention have come to recognize that many of the projects that Galicia has presented will decline. You said it yourself, without needing anyone to ask you anything. I've already said that we've introduced many -- it's true -- and I've said that most of them are going to fall, because "how are they going to take care of everyone in Galicia?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Mr. Orange, thank you for your sincerity. You've talked about the state's general budgets for next year, which says they're up 22%. Of course, what he does not say is that 22 % of the state's worst budgets for Galicia in 20 years. They're taking our hair! Do you know why budgets grow? [[Applause]] Because the government has to return Galicia 204 million euros in court order, for a court ruling, which has been denied us since 2018. Look, what you don't say is that Catalonia gets twice as much as Galicia, that's not what you say. You pull out your chest because you raise your pensions by 2%. All right, I'd just miss it, it's the IPC! It's just, if you get the pensions by 2 % at the same time you allow the light to rise by 44%, do you know where the pension rises? Paying part of the rise of light -- not all --. That's the reality. You are impoverishing all pensioners in Spain with that irresponsible policy. [[Applause]] You accuse us of confronting the Government, that we're here against the Government. That's our obligation! Our duty is to defend Galicia's general interests above who governs Spain. Do you expect us to remain silent before a government that causes the greatest industrial crisis in Galicia's history? Is that what you want? Do you expect us to calm down at the highest price of electricity in our country's history? They want us to shut our mouths to a government that abdicates the management of the health crisis by leaving in the hands of autonomous communities all responsibility during the pandemic and they want us to applaud them for hitting stickers on the consignments of vaccines sent to the European Union? Mr. Orange, a bit of rigour! It doesn't count on us to applaud the government of Pedro Sánchez, because for this reason -- you've already shown it -- you're already there. And I'm the ones who do it best. You applaud the worst government this country has ever had. You were talking about the poverty rate. Look, what you can't do is go up this rostrum and lie. Galicia is below the national average and we are the tenth community in people in poverty. That's the reality. You've spoken of the discretion of the Government of Greece, that we discriminate against someone you don't know who. Look, these are the distributions of grant funds in the Members in which you rule, these are the councils in which you govern, the red ones are you and the blues are the Town Councils of the People's Party. Do you really want to talk about discrimination against a government that is a government of all the Greeks and works for all the Greeks? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a chart from the stage.]] Lessons from the Socialist Party here in Galicia, none! [[Applause]] Mr. Orange, you told me about the windmill, and I have to admit you made a magnificent pirouette. It turns out that it's the law of the jungle, that we're stopping the sector, and at the same time they say we're robbing the middle. You can't accuse of one thing and the opposite. They agree. Either we approve a lot of parks or we approve a few parks. But you're here to say, at the same time, that we depredate the middle and stop the sector. It's pretty hard to understand. Do you know who authorizes parks in Natura Network areas? Your government, the Government of Spain. With regard to Mrs. Rodil, I have to tell you that the BNG bounity on the lap. That's the truth, the bonism on the lap because you talk as if you had nothing to do with what's happening in our country, as if you hadn't made Pedro Sánchez president. And I have to remind you of this picture. This white American lady is Ana Pontón, and the other lady -- already defended -- is Adriana Lastra. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a picture from the stage.]] This is the pact of shame. You have made President of the Government Pedro Sánchez and therefore you are responsible, unless this signature is not that of Ana Pontón. But I think so. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document from the stage.]] You have introduced this covenant, the pact of shame, this covenant that would solve all the problems of Galicia. And the truth is that you are as responsible as the Socialist Party for mismanagement that Pedro Sánchez's government is doing. That's an undeniable reality. You spoke of youth unemployment. We're very concerned about youth unemployment, of course. But what is undeniable is that we have a juvenile unemployment rate of 33.7 %, 4.7 points less than the average of Spain. There's more juvenile unemployment in the Canary Islands, there's more juvenile unemployment in Andalusia, there's more juvenile unemployment in the Extremadura, in Balearics, in the Valencian Community, in Castela-A Mancha, in Asturias, in the Basque Country, in Cantabria, in La Rioja, in Madrid... of course we want to work so that there's less youth unemployment! But, of course, the situation isn't what you describe, Mrs. Rodil. It's not, that's reality. You talk about energy. But what is the energy model of the Galician Nationalist Block? What's your model? You're in favour of closing the thermal power stations, you're against the wind sector -- the land sector, but also the sea -- you're against the hydroelectric power plants. Exactly, what is your model?, what is your model? His model is to defend everything Galicia does, indeed, smaller. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u13	That's the model of the Galician Nationalist Block. You criticized public health. He said we have poor public health. Look, we have more budgets than ever, more professional than ever, less waiting lists than ever, more health centers than ever, more investments than ever. And that's an indisputable reality. Galicia had a health budget this year 2021 of 4,587 million euros. When you ruled -- when you were supposed to do everything right -- you invested 3,690 million euros. What lessons in commitment to public health do you want to give us, Mr. Rodil?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u15	As far as professionals are concerned, of course they need more professionals in the Greek public health, of course they do! But today in public health, there are 42,000 professionals, 5,700 more than when you were in government. If things are wrong now, I suppose when the Bipartite ruled things would be frankly fatal. And that's why you've been in the opposition for so long. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u16	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u17	Mr. Tellado, first of all, it seems to me a genuine indignity that you use a death -- that we feel -- to extract political revenue, a genuine indignity! Because we didn't oppose postponing this debate about the state of the nation, we just didn't agree with you about the dates. [[Applause]] And by the way, I must remind you that when our Mrs Isaura, Isaura Abelaras, died, no committee was suspended in this Parliament. So it seems to me -- I insist -- genuine indignity, worthy of its tiny political size. And so I would be grateful if you'd apologize for doing so, for using that death to extract political income. [[Applause]] Because it's regrettable, lamentable! [[Applause]] As you get into the subject, you say I said that the general government budgets increase by 22%, says I said that. I didn't say that. I said 29.3%, not 22%. And it increases the direct investment part of the state, nothing to do with the IVE's court ruling, as you say. That's either a falsity or ignorance. In your case, frankly, it is difficult to distinguish one from the other, because you commit them repeatedly in this Parliament. Ask me to check the data. I talked about almost 11% of GDP fall in Spain, I didn't talk about Galicia. I have no data to review, Mr. Tellado. You speak of a greater investment in health care. You repeatedly use the technique of doing the accounts in unupdated terms. I mean, you take 100 euros from 2009 and they say, if there's 101 euros in 2020, the budgets have grown. So you have to apply the IPC to you, and you'll see how investments in education and health have not grown in that way. You're talking about you having a real-time photo of real Galicia, and ours, on the other hand, is apocalyptic. We do not say that Galicia is producing any sort of apocalypse, we simply say that Galicia is stagnated. And Galicia is stagnated, among other things, because Emilio Pérez Touriño in 2005 picked up Galicia with an 80% income from the state's total -- per capita income was 80% -- and when Emilio Pérez Touriño was 88%. And do you know how much Greek income has grown compared to the state set in the years of Feijóo? 88 % to 90 %. So we're practically stagnant. That's the best indicator -- not to mention that this indicator is inflated by the fall of the population --. "Submission to Madrid," you say. He speaks of submission to Madrid. I've already asked them, what did you get in the seven years of Rajoy's government to Galicia, what did you get? You tell me. The best show of submission to Madrid is its proposals: five proposals to ask the Rajoy government for things and twenty proposals to ask the Pedro Sánchez government -- that is, four times more --. So who is submitting to Madrid, you or us? As far as the MIR squares are concerned, as Julio Torrado has often told him in this House, the last four calls were recorded. From there it's all said. The last four calls were progressively and successively recorded in MIR square calls, which you didn't mind covering or planning during the years of Rajoy's government. You're talking about corruption. Well, I have to tell you that the judgment of the Gürtell case put black on white what's in your party -- at least there was in your party -- a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption. You read the judgment of the Gürtell case and you will read exactly these words: "real and effective system of institutional corruption." He's talking about PP, he's not talking about PSOE. And that you tell me about corruption in your ranks to Baltar, in your ranks, at your own time, to a Pablo Crespo, in your ranks at your own time to a Louzán... well, I just have to tell you, do you know where the last payout of the PP's "box b" came from? There are seventeen autonomous communities in Spain. Guess which autonomous community came from -- and, by the way, when he was already President of the Board Mr Feijóo --? Galician procedure. It did not originate from any of the other communities of Spain, it came from Galicia. [[Applause]] Galicia's PP doesn't want to move an apex -- for its intervention and for Feijóo's intervention -- for the campaign of permanent propaganda that paints a happy Galicia that exists only in its minds and in official propaganda. Our proposals simply don't buy that falsification, they talk about the real problems of citizenship, which according to PP are practically nonexistent. Because Mr. Feijóo says Galicia is the leader in a lot of things, so talking about Galician problems, obviously, would hurt him. If a tenth of the time Mr. Feijóo says Galicia is a leader -- leader in this, leader in that -- he was telling the truth, Galicia would be a real world power. And it's not, of course. We like Galicia very much, we're very proud of Galicia. But of course we are not the world power that would be removed from your repeated statements in this House. In fact, I told him Galicia is stagnated. I've already told you a mouse about the data. And if we advance in income compared to the state set it was by the way of the fall of the population. Because, as I told you, we lost 66,000 people. I'm not saying you're guilty, but I'm saying we have the worst demographic data in Spain. You'll have some kind of responsibility, you'll have to have some kind of responsibility for the worst demographic data in Spain, which is not the second worst, is the worst. Do you have anything to say besides that women don't have children because they don't want them? That's their reflection, that's their demographic policy. [[Applause]] Look, you're constantly spreading the story that there's an evil central government that conspires against Galicia and a PP board that defends Galicia against that evil conspiracy. And if you, with your propaganda machinery -- obviously formidable, and paid, by the way, with public money -- repeat machaconically that there is an outside enemy trying to take away ours, and that the problems of Navantia, Alcoa, Vestas, Gamesa, or the naval, Vulcano, Barreras are so simple that they manage a pen and they have to fix the central government -- despite the fact that article 30 of the Autonomy Statute says that Galicia has exclusive competence in industrial policy -- what they do is paint a world of good and bad in which you are very good and the rest are very bad. Well, by spreading that fallacy, you're contributing to Galicia's staying alienated and not dealing with the cause of its problems, which I have to say is partly for yourself, after thirty-four years of narcoticizing governments of a right race and conservative -- I'm not saying that of "narcotizers" by Martial Dorado, although also, by the way --. And the reality is that in Galicia there are very important industrial problems with the fruit set, but also with the absolute failure of planning. And the reality is that you have -- I insist -- full competences in industrial policy that you don't exercise. Because Galicia is constantly and repeatedly practising competency today. This strenuous conquest of the Statute of Self-Government, which Noa Díaz's father reported in a book with the same title, is constantly being deverted by a government that has the capacity to self-government and the obligation to govern us, to exercise its powers and responsibilities, but does not. As I told you, that evil outside enemy that seems to be the central government is nothing more than a montage and an account that is frankly counterproductive. Because it's not true, it's not true or by any means. And he disassembles himself with these budgets. As much as you say otherwise, investment in Galicia is increased by 30% -- nothing to do with the IVE judgment --, investment in Galicia is increased by 30% when we were already above the Spanish average and above half of Spain's communities. And Barreras has very serious problems. Because of Pedro Sánchez's government? I don't think so. Vulcan broke. Was it because of Pedro Sánchez's government? Obviously not. Your clothes are gone. Because of the central government? You say so, but I'm afraid not. Hundreds of Greek companies relocated north of Portugal in the years in which Rajoy ruled in Spain. That's why I told them before it comes out much more capital than it comes in, much more, but a lot more! That's a problem, we're being decapitalized. And when Gamesa moves north of Portugal, doing the same thing that those hundreds of Galician companies did for years, is it the fault of the central government? Yeah, obviously, no. Pemex's fiasco, which you sold us to do in Galicia 22 boats -- then you stayed in two -- or you installed a logistics base for all of Europe in Punta Langosteira -- from which no brick was ever seen -- is it the fault of Pedro Sánchez' government? Well, I think it's better to blame your governments. Is it the fault of Pedro Sánchez's government that Mr. Aznar extended twenty-five years -- as it was not done in any other autonomous community -- the concession of AP-9 in 2000, to give it the same concession to some more or less friendly company? Well, I think that's your responsibility. And so you leave that blond, phalsified, demagogic and undocumented speech -- especially undocumented in your case -- with which you seem to want to compete with Vox. Actually, they compete with Vox. Government of Galicia, leave propaganda and mark a course once for Galicia, some kind of course for Galicia. Because Seneca said it a long time ago: "There's no favourable wind for those who don't know where I'm going." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u18	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u19	I don't know why you're so nervous and so upset, Mr. Tellado. I was quite reminded of the grunt pitho. Whenever he comes here... Home!, it's a reference I think of some cartoons that we all share. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because Mr. Tellado comes here, every time he has a chance, to resonate. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u20	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u21	He's coming to reign because he thinks differently, because he's dreaming about defending and bringing proposals and celebrating us -- especially the BNG -- because he wants Galicia to move forward, because Galliza is growing up, and because Galicia generates more opportunities for the people we live and work in this country today, for the present generations, and also for future generations. [[Applause]] And, of course, any question: if everything goes so well, if it goes so beautifully, I don't know why they're so angry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u22	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u23	Anyone would say something is happening, because it seems that the People's Party is in this debate of the state of the nation quite nervous. The only ones who come here with the autopilot, Mr. Tellado, are you. The only one who comes with the autopilot and the same mantras over and over again is the Popular Party. Because in their catechism they have two commandments: first, you will always put the People's Party above Galicia; and second, you will blame the BNG for all things. [[Applause]] Even if they do hurry me up, I'd dare say you have another one, the third one: The world started in 2005 Everything that happened in this country before, nothing, it's an invention, it's the priests. [[Murmurs.]] And the best example here is that the only ones who come with the autopilot and the same mantras are always those of the People's Party bench -- and with that second commandment of "you will blame the BNG for all things" -- are some of their proposals -- specifically one --. [[Laughter]] Because, with what is falling in this country -- and we will agree at least on that, where we are immersed, although the health situation is fortunately different, in a pandemic with an economic and social crisis of enormous and unprecedented magnitude in times of peace -- you dedicate a motion for a resolution, of the forty that we can present, unique and exclusively to oppose the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[Laughter]] And your defense in this rostrum of that motion for a resolution makes it very clear. [[Applause]] I also say one thing to them: if they think that way they attack or erode as little as possible the Galician Nationalist Block, they go around. [[Applause]] I encourage them to keep going, and also whoever wants to make a comparison to the People's Party, to continue to make a comparison to the People's Party... to buy the frame on the right, a plan without cracks, eh! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] It's about self-government, the People's Party here. Besides, with chest blows. They say self-government defense, rain command in Havana! You embrace a statute on which you didn't believe or the day you approved it. They didn't believe him or the day he was approved. [[Applause]] To love him so much, help him a little less and above all exercise him a little more. Exercise it a little more, gentlemen! [[Applause]] Because to defend self-government is to ask that the law, which is passed, the 1981 organic law, be complied with, which is against what you will vote against in motion for resolution No. 1 which today presents the Nationalist Block Galego. What does the motion for a resolution from the Galician Nationalist Block call for? Let us call for the transfer of the powers which appear in the 1981 Galician Autonomy Statute. That's what you're going to vote against, those who say they want to get involved so much in the flag of Galicianism, in the flag of autonomy. Those who are outside the Statute are you, those who stay too big, too big! [[Applause]] And that's a perfect example, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of the little one you want Galicia, of the little country they want to lead us all to. [[Applause]] They are not even able to exercise this 1981 statute and claim that what appears to have been collected in it for more than thirty years. Mr. Tellado, and the People's Party, who were worried -- I don't know how he said it because he was here thirty minutes talking about everything and nothing --. He was talking about democratic health, he was concerned about the democratic health of the Galician Nationalist Block. There's nothing to worry about for the democratic health of the BNG. It's great! He cares about the health of the Galicians and the Greeks, who, to be better than any and better than thirty years ago, is all so good, Mr. Tellado, that they are left in block chiefs of the largest service area in this country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We have mobilizations because there are no doctors in the health centers from north to south and east to west! [[Applause]] It's great! They cover Sergas' vacancies, they reinforce the public health of this country, they recognize rights -- more rights -- to public health professionals, they pay due attention to the mental health of our population, which is a huge concern. I was talking about youth at the beginning of my intervention. We made a lot of progress, because what was a taboo before -- many years ago -- I think today for the youth of this country is already a social and public debate. And they and they opened up the need to care for us, socially and psychologically, collectively. We are all touched by an unprecedented collective experience. And now what we need is to put the resources in place so that those remaining wounds -- also emotional and psychological in all and all of us after what we've been living -- are properly cared for. And that's professional, that's money, that's budgets, investments and resources. That's the health that concerns the Nationalist Galego Block, the health of the Welsh and the Welsh, and starting with the mental health of our country. [[Applause]] And they also told us that we had to explain what the energy model of the Galician Nationalist Block is. Maybe they haven't read the forty proposals; or -- I don't know -- we have debates here without hearing what we're saying. But I think who should explain the energy policy a little bit is the People's Party. What is the energy model of the People's Party? I, if I may, would synthesize it in a sentence: continue to embrace the Iberdrola business or something as well as continue to do what the electricians send them. And I'm telling you that the People's Party would be good to explain to this country what the energy model it has. Because now that they're trying to drag us all to 1985 and get us back to the women, just like you had to make a little trip over time. [[Applause]] The recommendation today is: to see if you turn back instead of dragging us into the past. You make a little memory, I travel with you in 2004, for example -- you know we like the Galician Nationalist Block getting rid of hemerotheque --. Do you know what the People's Party said on 9 May 2004 -- then gathered at a convention here in Galicia -- in a lecture on Welshmanism? He said, "The People's Party claims compensation for Galicia for exporting electricity." They should take a little more of a case for themselves, and join the motion for a resolution tabled by the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You want to know what our model is? So when we have to choose between the business of PP's friends and the business of electricity, the Galician Nationalist Block always chooses Galician, the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and the wealth for this country. Our energy model is that the Galicians and the Greeks benefit from the electricity that is Galicia. [[Applause]] And that we compensate for the damage and the environmental and social impact that the production of electricity in our country, which is compensated for the way in which we can access this basic asset in a cheaper way. Maybe in your second intervention you can explain to us -- because you're giving more turns than one hair without heads -- if they're in 2004 or 2021. [[Applause]] I finished as I began my first intervention. We're at a time of profound changes, changes that are already here, changes that are coming. And the question that we have to ask ourselves collectively -- not this House but the whole country -- is who will benefit. We have made it clear -- and so we pick it up in our motions for resolutions -- that who has to take advantage of this opportunity is the whole country, the majority of society, the workers and the workers of Greece, and ultimately the whole of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u24	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u25	Thank you, President. Mr. Arunguena, what is clear is that you didn't want to delay the debate on the state of autonomy for five days because it doesn't suit you in your primary election calendar. That's the only reality. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm sorry, because I'm sure that's a decision you didn't support your group members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u26	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u27	...and that was an exclusive decision of Mr. Caballero. Ask yourself what we got from Mariano Rajoy's governments. Yeah, look, we got the state budgets that approved Mariano Rajoy's government to give Galicia 13% of the territorialized investment. And you now celebrate 8%. They criticized 13%, but yet they supported and applauded 8% of Pedro Sánchez. It's consistent! You've got a commitment lesson with Galicia! [[Applause]] Put it in your head, Mr. Aranguena. The energy policy of the Sánchez government is the one that is endangering the Welsh industry. Nothing can be done to defend our industry if the Government of Spain drowns it with an erratic, incoherent and insolidary energy policy. Look, Gamesa and Vestas didn't leave Galicia, they left Spain, they want to leave Spain, because they don't trust the energy transition policy of their government. That's the reality, Mr. Aranguena. Of course, we're proud to be the most government you've ever seen in public health. And we can continue to improve Greek public health if the Government of Spain rips its shoulder. You just have to authorize more bids from MIR. What's going on? That you don't do it from the government or support it here from this House. But what are indisputable are the figures -- you like it or not, Mr. Arunguena -- and today there are more professionals than ever in the Greek public health. There are 42,000 workers, 15% more than when you ruled. We've raised the Sergas template by 15%, it's indisputable. And we spent 26 percent more on Greek public health than when you ruled. So they stop breaking their chest by defending public health, because where they have to support it is from the Government of Spain, and they don't, Mr. Aranguena, don't. About the BNG, Mrs. Rodil, I'm telling you, it's put together -- and disqualifications aside -- that you want to represent the future, but you're the past. His speech is a decimonal speech. [[Murmurs.]] They want to make Galicia small. Look, Mrs. Pontón's tired of saying that we took a breast for the dead during the pandemic. It must be immoral! They say we suck at the dead. No, no, we breast-feed the living, Mrs. Pontón!, for all the lives that this government has managed to save during the months of the pandemic, when you were locked up in the house seeking to criticize the government instead of reaching your shoulder. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs Pontón, you made such irresponsible statements during the pandemic that "at the current rate it will take four years to vaccinate the 70 % of the population". You said the agglomerations of the establishments where you were vaccinating were dangerous, encouraging people not to go. It's just that you've been authentically irresponsible. They didn't support the government. Mrs. Rodil, you talked about commandments, and you're right, of course. Do you know which is the fifth? "You won't kill." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell your Bildu colleagues who make election coalitions. Tell them! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, you are not the future, you are the past. And Mrs Pontón, who stands as the high priest of renewal, is the longest Member of this House. He's been running the Galician Parliament carpet for 17 years. Mrs. Pontón, when you entered this House, your family members could not congratulate you through your app simply because your app did not exist yet. Do you know who was in charge of the world when you entered this House? In Galicia, Fraga; in Spain, Aznar; in the United States, Bush; and in the BNG -- there are things that never change -- the UPG. When you arrived in this Parliament, Depor was on his way to the Champions, Madrid had just set up Beckam and Barça in Ronaldinho. [[Murmurs.]] And a Spanish, his fellow countryman, had just won a Roland-Garros. It wasn't Rafa Nadal -- he was a child for those dates -- he was Juan Carlos Ferrero. [[Murmurs.]] Beyond jokes, Mrs. Pontón, veterinary care wouldn't be a problem if you hadn't spent almost 20 years repeating the same mantras, handling the same concepts -- nation, self-determination, Welsh electric tariff, Basque coupon, corporate nationalization --. This is the new Galicia you want to build? No, Your Honor, it's the old Galicia. It's an old idea that they've tried to impose during the Bipartite and that the Greeks have been rejecting this country for twelve years. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, you want to build a new Galicia because today, in real Galicia, nobody wins the election. That's the reality, because no one believes in his mantras. [[Murmurs.]] What has happened in this debate of autonomy is a clear example of the political situation of our community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u28	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u29	On the one hand, we saw a serious, responsible government, focused on the problems of the Greeks, a proposed government that announced some of the major measures of legislation: free kindergartens, new model of residences, more investments in health, large industrial measures in Ferrol, Pontevedra and Lugo. We saw a government that clearly defined its model: less taxes, less debts, more investment. We saw a government renewing its commitment to the development of its electoral programme, an irrevocable contract that we signed a year ago with the Greeks who voted for us. It is a government that guarantees stability and also democratic normality, because in Galicia institutions are respected and the laws are complied with, as much as it bothers you. On the other hand, what we saw in this debate was an immense opposition which merely repeated the same old mantras, that catechism. It's an opposition more concerned about you than about others, because what you're worried about right now is Galicia. The only thing that really worries Ana Pontón is Ana Pontón. And the only thing that concerns Mr. Gonzalo Caballero right now -- you have to say -- it's Gonzalo Caballero. They're too concerned about their future, about their internal struggles, they're in that game of silence, which is that internal process that lives each of their parties; they're worried, one, about those UPG colonists who don't applaud Ana Pontón everything she would like, and worried about a socialist congress that everything points to which he started the story behind the end of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's political cycle. That's the reality we live in right now. I can tell Mr. Gonzalo Caballero -- who's not in the room -- that in this House we support almost everyone. He supports most of the Socialist Members, we support all of the Members of the People's Party, and I am sure they support him in the Galician Nationalist Block too because they think that the worse you go to him, the better you go to them. I have to tell Mrs Pontón that she has no more support here than her own Members. You may have support outside, you may have support from Oriol Junqueras, Arnaldo Otegi and members of these parties. But here in Galicia he has very little support. I'm done. More than a year ago the Greeks voted democratically, and freely decided that the Galician People's Party would rule and that Alberto Núñez Feijó was the one to manage this pandemic. Those same Greeks decided that the BNG should be in opposition, those same Greeks converted Gonzalo Caballero's PSdeG-PSOE into the minority force of this Parliament. A year later, we can say that we have fulfilled the mandate of the polls: strictly managing the health pandemic, trying to save the greatest number of lives of the Greeks, making difficult decisions but the best decisions to stop the virus and preserve the lives of the most vulnerable. Good management saved lives and that's as undeniable as comforting to the Government and the group that sustains it. You guys, as opposition -- I have to tell you -- they weren't there, they didn't support the government, they didn't close their shoulders when it was missing. They did what they always do: they criticize everything all the time. I don't think they realize that, when Galicia is denied the recognition of the successes achieved, they don't deny that by recognizing the German Government or the People's Party of Galicia. You deny the people of Galicia, who with your efforts has grown to this health crisis. Today at the end of the pandemic we can say loud and clear that Galicia has come out of this crisis better than the rest of autonomous communities. We can say that here in Galicia there was a government that gave everything to save lives, a government that wears out ruling. And in front of that government there was an unfair opposition and opportunistic opposition led by Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Gonzalo Caballero. Allah, everyone, there as everyone wants to pass into history and there as everyone understands their work. There's no greater honor for us than serving Galicia, and that's why we left our skin and left our life at work -- sometimes literally, as our companion Valeriano Martínez did --. We are servants of Galicia and we understand that our party must always be subordinate to Galicia's interests, not the other way around, as you do. For us Galicia is the first and perhaps that is why, when the Greeks are summoned to the polls, they give us their majority backing. It's true that we're not all the same parties -- it's true, today it's been believed -- not all leaders are the same. Last Wednesday he was witnessed in this House. We are lucky to have a leader who day by day points out to us what should be the way: work, commitment, delivery and full loyalty to Galicia, a leader who represents throughout Galicia, to all the Greeks, a leader who has seen the country's shirt, not the shirt of the corresponding party. It's not easy to find such leadership in today's politics. You know that well, I'm the exact example of the opposite. You should have learned it from each of the electoral defeats and you've had a few of them. Our only loyalty is Galicia, that of this parliamentary group, that of the German Government and of course that of President Feijóo. Loyalty to Galicia because Galicia deserves everything, that's reality. That loyalty to Galicia is the one that has us here in this House, five days after losing our companion, watching his legacy of work, watching his legacy of commitment and honoring his memory as he deserved. Thank you, President, for guiding this ship during the worst moments of the pandemic. Galicia I think she knows about your developments, your worries and your commitment. I think I speak on behalf of all members of the People's Parliamentary Group when I say it's an honor to work alongside Galicia's first server. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u30	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. At the end of the debate we proceeded to the vote. Voting of motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u31	In total, we're going to have to make 28 votes. Let's see if we can do it in a well-ordered way, that this will make us all better. Firstly, we shall vote on the motions for resolutions that have been negotiated. In particular, the first is a compromise proposal between the Galician People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution number 16 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No. 16 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u32	The second vote is on a compromise proposal between the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Galician Socialist Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No. 31 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the compromised text on motion for a resolution No. 31 by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u33	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 16 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No. 16 by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u34	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No. 32 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No. 32 by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u35	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No. 15 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No. 15 by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u36	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution number 20 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No. 20 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u37	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 39 of the People's Parliamentary Group. Voting of the compromised text on motion for a resolution No. 39 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u38	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Socialist Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution No. 13 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No. 13 of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u39	We are now voting on the proposal for a compromise between the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia and the Socialist Parliamentary Group on motions for resolutions No. 21 of the People's Parliamentary Group and No. 30 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motions for resolutions No. 21 of the People's Party of Galicia and No. 30 of the Socialist Group of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u40	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group on motion for a resolution number 26 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of the compromised text on motion for a resolution No. 26 by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u41	We are now voting on the compromise proposal between the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on motion for a resolution number 36 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote on the compromise text is based on motion for a resolution No 36 by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u42	We are now voting on the proposals of the parliamentary groups, with requests for separate groupings and votes which have been made by the various groups. We begin by voting on those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. In particular, in this first vote, proposals Nos 3 and 33 were asked to separate. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 33 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u43	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group 19 and 22. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 19 and 22 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; votes against, 42; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u44	We now vote on motions for resolutions Nos. 1 and 2, 4 to 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 21, 23 to 25, 27 to 29, 34, 35 and 37 to 40. Vote of motions for resolutions 1, 2, 4 to 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 21, 23 to 25, 27 to 29, 34, 35, and 37 to 40 G.P. of Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u45	We are now voting on the proposals of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. They asked that proposals Nos 16 and 35 be voted on separately. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 16 and 35 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u46	We are now voting on proposals 22 and 33. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 22 and 33 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u47	We are now voting on motions for resolutions Nos 1, 4, 8, 11, 26, 31, and 34. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 4, 8, 11, 26, 31 and 34 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 42; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u48	We now vote on proposals Nos 2, 12, 19, 20, 25, 36 and 37. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos. 2, 12, 19, 20, 25, 36 and 37 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u49	We now vote on motions for resolutions Nos. 3, 5 to 7, 9, 10, 13 to 15, 17, 18, 21, 23, 24, 27 to 30, 32 and 38 to 40. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos. 3 to 7, 9, 10, 13 to 15, 17, 18, 21, 23, 24, 27 to 30, 32 and 38 to 40 G. P. of the Nationalist Block Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u50	And now we are voting on the proposals of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. We begin by voting on motion for a resolution No. 40. Motion for a resolution No 40 by the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; votes against, 13. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u51	We are now voting on proposals Nos. 1 and 3. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 3 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 13; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u52	We are now voting on motions for resolutions Nos 8, 11 and 31. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 8, 11 and 31 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; votes against, 13. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u53	We are now voting on motions for resolutions Nos 4, 6, 32 and 38. Vote on motions for resolutions Nos 4, 6, 32 and 38 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u54	We voted on motions for resolutions Nos. 9, 17, 23 and 24. Vote on motions for resolutions Nos 9, 17, 23 and 24 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u55	We now vote on proposals 25, 27, 29 and 36. Vote on motions for resolutions Nos 25, 27, 29 and 36 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 19. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u56	We now vote on motions for resolutions Nos 10, 18, 19, 26 and 33. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 10, 18, 19, 26 and 33 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u57	We now vote on proposals Nos 2, 7, 22, 28, 34 and 35. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 2, 7, 22, 28, 34 and 35 of the People's P.G. of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 19. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u58	Finally, we voted on motions for resolutions Nos. 5 from 12 to 15, 30 and 37. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos. 5, from 12 to 15, 30 and 37 of the People's Party of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 19; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-15-DSPG051.u59	This concludes the debate on the state of autonomy and the vote on the motions for resolutions. Thank you. Good morning.
