ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with the fourth item on the agenda, questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialists of Galician G.P. on the correction of the adjustment policies applied since the previous crisis to encourage Galician reactivation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u2	We started with Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez's question. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the challenge of the reactivation of Galicia. After the greatest economic, social and health crisis, the Galician Union has the opportunity to take advantage of this reactivation in order to put the Greeks and the Greeks on their priority; to favor an exit to this crisis other than that which you applied in the great recession, when you ruled in Spain, when you ruled in Galicia, with these policies of adjustment, of cutting the public, with those austerity policies that led to a slower exit, with much more peaceful growth and with a lack of bet by the public that involved vicious circles in re-engineering and boosting the economy. Now a new time, there's a new paradigm, there's an impulse from the left that has allowed a new Marshall Plan in Europe and that allows in Spain the whole administrations to bet on Keynesian policies, on spending policies, on the possibility that they give you, Mr. President, the budgets that you yourself point out will be the highest in history. You have a huge amount of money because others who have reflections and thoughts that prioritize people in the face of austerity, who prioritize public spending in the face of cuts, who prioritize public health and public education, are able to mark an agenda that will give the Board a lot of funds as never before. But when I see the budgets you want to present, I'm starting to be worried. And I'm starting to worry because you in the most expansive budgets cut funds into primary care, because this year you fire hundreds of health professionals who were hired by the pandemic as a health reinforcement. Those 1,200 professionals who were hired last year to meet the health vaccination challenges are more necessary than ever and require stable contracts, not termination of contracts. I'm worried when I see you also started this course by firing hundreds of teachers who were hired by the reinforcement. And I'm worried to see how in Galicia, when there's about twenty-five percent more families who have to delay their housing payments or fundamental receipts in their homes, the Galician Union does not plan a large protective shield to help them in 2022. It's necessary, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] The budgets of the Union give you many possibilities, for they have more funds than ever; they don't waste them. Think about people. They have to change their way of doing economic policy because they have budgets, but they have no industrial policy, no R & D+I policy, no rural support policy, no policy to save people in more difficulties. They have to change their paradigm and their reflection to make budgets people's; to allow you to face what you haven't done in another crisis, you can now make in Galicia an economic policy that drives the country, modernizes the economy, bets on public services and bets on the generation of quality jobs in Galicia. In these three areas you suspend. They suspend public service defence when they fire health professionals in education. They are suspended in modernizing the economy because there is no strategy or orientation of economic policy to get Galicia to move forward in vanguard. And, above all, they suspend employment policies because they are neither expected nor expected. It's still the government that doesn't take advantage of the growth possibilities to encourage the increase of the occupied population, to increase the generation of jobs in Galicia. It's the big deficit in the country and Galicia that you make, which is a Galicia that doesn't bet on the generation of jobs, despite the many industries and professionals in the country that have all the capacity but don't find an ally in the Union. It's something we have to change. When the Galician Union forgets the economic modernization, the generation of employment and public services, this government suspends and the Greeks and the Greeks need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u4	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u5	...an impulse for the future with progress policies and left-wing policies. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, once I passed the debate on the state of Autonomy, I thought you could change your sermons and your mantras and start really talking about a new stage in Galicia. You speak of the challenge of reactivation, and that's true. You also say that the largest European funds we have is the result of the socialist government, and that is false. It is false because in Europe socialists do not rule, in Europe govern the European People's Party; the Commission is chaired by a militant of the European People's Party. So the funds have nothing to do with the socialist government; the funds have to do with a European policy where the European People's Party injects money into the economy to revive the European economy. That's the first plot, the real one, and your first false mantra that you just want to emphasize constantly. I'm surprised if you come here to talk about austereness. Austericity is to leave 2,000 million euros unpaid, which you left in the negative liquidations, because you spent the budget of the years 2008 and 2009 without income. Austericity is to put EUR 2.400 million on Galician board of debt and public deficit as a result of the fact that highways with peas in the shadow did not manage them, and imposed a deficit on the Autonomous Community and in public debt. That's an austere murder of 5,000 million euros that we inherited from the Bipartite. That's right, Your Honor, it's a strict austerity. And now it turns out that we are with the biggest expansive budget in our history, which results in the greatest increase in social spending in our history, 8,600 million euros, and the biggest productive investment in our history, more than two thousand five hundred million euros, that is, in two years more than five billion euros. And we also lower the taxes. That means, Your Honor, what we're doing right now is reactivating the economy. And what we're doing is telling people the truth. I'll put a data on social spending. The social expenditure of this 2022 budget amounts to EUR 8.660 million. Only the social expenditure this year is higher than the entire budget we had in 2013, the whole budget of the year 2014 and the whole budget of the year 2015. You'll understand, Your Honor, that this is just right to protect social spending. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, during the years we had to amend our accounts, rather the stories, which left you alone in the autonomic farm, we had to live with much less money. To make infrastructure, for social expenses, to pay the interest of debt, to do everything we had to do a year we had less money during the years 2014, 2015 and 2013 than we now have only for health, social policy and education. By the way, Your Honor, when you talk about what we want to reactivate the economy and what we want to propose... indeed, I have proposed to you and Mrs Pontón: what are your priority proposals for European funds? I'm still waiting for them. [[Murmurs.]] I had to refer the proposal of the Government of Galicia to the first Vice President of the Government without the opposition. Not at all. Don't say that we don't ask him directly. [[Murmurs.]] If we did a commission where we've been for months, and they didn't want to vote on any proposals, just because it came from the majority group. Mr. Knight, I hope and wish you to leave your mantras, leave your slogans and start talking about the country if you really care. Look, Your Honor, what we've done is to avoid Galicia's breakdown, what we've done is to have a Galician solvency and what we've done is the biggest bet on public services that we've ever done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u9	...and never made a government in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u10	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u11	Mr. Feijóo, I thank you for today's recognition that all your economic policy over the preceding eleven years has been a failure in the Council of Galicia. I am grateful to you, Mr Feijóo, that today you come to recognize the parliamentary headquarters that having the largest expansion budget for the year 2022 is a good thing for Galicia. [[Applause]] Just the opposite of what you said and wanted to do in all the years of the last decade. And you have an expansive budget for Galicia because there's a government in Spain and a way of making economic policy that gives the Union over two billion euros in this pandemic to strengthen the position of people, of citizenship. You repeat that mantra to lower the taxes, because it pays the Government of Spain, the state. The state pays what you don't want to do. And when funds arrive, you have neither the ability nor the guidance to mark an economic policy to reactivate Galicia. These are the budgets where you cut funds in primary care. These are the budgets with which you want to keep the dismissal of hundreds of health professionals who were hired in the pandemic and the dismissal of hundreds of teachers who were fired at the beginning of this school. That, yes, you can increase the Union's spending on advisers of the People's Party by 6.7 percent; ultimately, on unnecessary expenses at the time of reactivation. [[Applause]] And that's why I welcome you, Mr. Feijóo, if you start to rectify and acknowledge that the People's Party and the right in Spain and Galicia have been wrong over the last decade. I welcome Keynesian policies, expansional policies, policies that prioritize people. I welcome you because there are no longer any last mohicans defending that neoliberalism that you have defended for a whole decade, strangling the potential for growth and strangling the generation of jobs to prioritize account adjustments and the struggle against the public deficit. Now we're at a different stage, and you have a huge amount of funds that you don't raise, that the state collects. That's why you say it lowers taxes. Yes, first, he lowered the heritage to the millionaires of Galicia. That's your balance. [[Applause]] And now that you have the possibility of spending, take the opportunity, don't pass the opportunity by losing a need for so many Greeks and Greeks who have difficulty finding jobs, to arrive at the end of the month, to get an appointment in primary care, where there's a very serious problem throughout Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. In all health areas we know all citizens that when we need an appointment in the doctor or in the doctor we have to wait; that there is an administrative who decides whether it is presental or not, that there is a retreat, that you are an accomplice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u13	...regression from public health. The more money there is, the more it is your responsibility. Don't waste that opportunity that gives you the policies of progress that you refuse to make progress in Galicia. Think of the people, the citizens of Galicia, who don't want to see a missing government, a government with no empathy, a government with no policies of progress for Galicia, and want to see that these...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u15	...expanding budgets reach people. And, by the way,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u16	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u17	...in this very parliamentary headquarters, I myself told you that I had agreed with parliamentary groups on priority European projects, that a priority map should be drawn up. He said no, he wouldn't. And now they hurt, late and drag, because this is still a government with no head and no structure for European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u18	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please, the president will answer. The closing round of this question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u19	You should respect Galicia a little more, because when we hear that the Government of Spain sends us funds, the Government of Spain sends us nothing, we send them the Government of Europe; the Government of Spain zero. More than six hundred and sixty million euros are taken from the European funds we receive. [[Applause]] And the Government of Spain not only sends us less funds than we are, but it also owes us the VAT of more than two hundred million euros, which you said was a "theatrick" of the Government of Galicia to confront the Government of Spain, and you had to come to the Supreme Court to return to us the money that the Welsh paid for taxes. Therefore, Your Honor, a little respect for reality and truth. [[Applause]] Your Honor, keep talking about austereness. Austericity assumes that the Greek economy grows more than the Spanish economy, that the Greek economy exports more than the Spanish economy, that the Greek economy has already achieved the data of affiliation and unemployment prepandemy. That means, Your Honor, that the Greek economy works better than the Spanish economy. This is the result of these public policies. [[Applause]] I understand, Your Honor, that this living by issuing debt and raising taxes does any one. That's what you do: to increase diesel, to increase gasoline, to increase registration tax, to increase the whole taxable base of all taxes, to tax on transmissions, to tax on inheritances, to tax on donations, to tax on documented legal acts. That's what you're doing. And then they talk about the rich and the poor. But, Your Honor, is there anything more unfair than increasing the diesel to the Spanish population in terms of poverty? Is there anything more unfair, Your Honor, than raising the tax on all low incomes, which is the consumer price tax, with more than four percent the IPC? Do you come here to talk about tax policy in favour of low incomes? Your Honor, Galicia is one of four autonomous communities with income tax to the lowest physical persons in all average and low incomes in Spain. That's our tax policy, Your Honor: lower taxes on middle income and low income. [[Applause]] Your Honor, it seems you no longer remember Mr. Zapatero's slogan, that abolishing property tax was left-handed. But suppressed in its entirety, and I did. We have abolished the property tax; by the way, with an agreement with the Socialist Party in Galicia. I understand that at that time the Socialist Party could agree. Of course, indeed, that is the proposal, Your Honor: when it touches, if it is necessary and indispensable, taxes are up, but the fundamental objective is that people can decide where to put their money, and we don't decide it yourself and me. [[Murmurs.]] That is the reasonable policy of this government. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, you follow with the teachers' mantra. Look: today we have 2,095 teachers more than in 2019-2020; some 2,095 teachers more than in the last pre-pandamy course. Your Honor, do you really want to be serious or don't you want to be serious? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today our goal is to maintain 80 percent of all health personnel hired during the pandemic, 80 percent once the pandemic is completed. You follow the staff cost mantra. When we got to Junta there were 3,600 million euros of staff spending in Sergas. Today there are 4500 million, that is 23% more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u21	You follow the mantra of the professionals in primary care. When we got to the government there were 442 million, today there are 541 million, and now there are 22.5% more personnel spending on primary care. Mr. Knight, I tell you with all my cordiality, which you know I have, I don't know who's going to be the next spokesman of the Socialist Party at the next control session, and I don't know who's going to be the Secretary General of the Socialist Party at the next control session. That's not up to me; it's not up to me, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u23	...but I'll ask you and offer you something. I'll ask you after these months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u24	Yes. Don't get into it, please. Don't get in time, that time is controlling me. You have to finish, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But don't tell me that because I've got control of the times that your partner has on the left. Please don't touch that subject. Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u25	But if I'm going to ask you for something and offer you something, which is quite reasonable and balanced, like all our proposals. I will ask you, Your Honor, that after these months of bands, of names, of cowardice in your political formation, overcome those lost months for Galicia and get to work. And I'm going to offer you my tender hand again, and I ask that after this Socialist Party congress in Galicia we start working. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you, let's start working, whoever the secretary general and the spokesperson in the group. I don't care what you do. But I ask you, please, to stop taking the hair of the Greeks and get to work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the proposal of the Union for Galicia to have fair funding
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u27	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u28	Thank you very much. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a false speech, but centralist parties are trying to impose. It's that idea of poor Galicia, state-dependent Galicia, that Galicia has no future without the graceful generosity of what comes to us from outside. One of the main advocates of that false idea is you, Mr. Feijóo, who doesn't trust the country because you think Galicia is small, just when we need to think Galicia the most big. Like the BNG does, for example, when it defends an economic concert that gives us the key to our money; that is to say, it allows us to pick up from here on our own, and then to settle with the state without discrimination or injury. Because Galicia is not poor and lives what the state commands; on the contrary, it is the State that makes a box of taxes for the Greeks and the Greeks, with a model that prejudices us and has expired since 2014. And the figures are very eloquent, and we're going to give official data from the Ministry of Business, in particular from the last year's year of liquidation, 2019. The state raised in Galicia EUR 13.212 million, we received by the funding system EUR 8.142 million; that is, we contributed EUR 5.070 million to the state. And the BNG proposal is very clear: an economic concert such as Euskadi and Navarra, which allows us to have the key to our money. I am aware that this is a debate in which you, Mr. Feijóo, have your hands tied by your row boss, by Pablo Casado, who does not allow you to defend this option. But at least he has a little country ambition and he defends greater fiscal and financial autonomy for Galicia. And in this line, BNG also has concrete proposals that we want to transfer to him: First of all, we demand that the percentage of taxes allocated to 90 % be increased. We're basically talking about VlV and IRPF, and we'd get four billion more, even with the current system. Secondly, claim the transfer of corporate tax. Third, Mr. Feijóo, who tax here the companies that have productive activity here. Iberdrola, Naturgy, Endesa and so many others must pay taxes in Galicia because they are exploiting our natural resources. And finally, move forward in a green fiscal year so you can deal with the climate emergency with more resources. We believe that this is a debate where a country's position needs to be agreed. And I propose that Parliament be the forum so that we can define a new model of financing just with Galicia. Because what makes no sense is that to define this model you intend to talk to everyone but the Greeks and the Greeks who are represented through the political forces in this parliament. Mr Feijóo, this is a political debate to be held. I ask him not to be blinded by centralism and, above all, to think of the best for the country, because without financial autonomy there is no political autonomy. And we're tired of seeing how when they decide for us in Madrid, Galicia loses. We want Galicia to win, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the Bipartite, who is in the cities and the deputies, has just believed that he laughs at the Greeks, and one says one thing, another says the opposite, and gives them the same. Mr. Caballero says that thanks to the Government of Spain we have funds, and you say that the Government of Spain takes our funds away from us. It would be good if they agreed, at least at one time. We should all agree on the financing issue. I see it's hard. Your Honor, don't ask me as President of Galicia to harm Galicia. I'll never do it. So don't ask me to do the haraquiri by trying to destroy my country just to fulfill its ideological, childish diary, and from the economic point of view fired. When you talk about the accounts, what you're talking about is the stories. You don't want to talk about the Social Security deficit; that doesn't interest you. If Galicia in 2014 already had a deficit in Social Security of more than five billion euros; that doesn't count. He doesn't care. Those accounts don't come into the nationalist accounts. But to me yes, Your Honor, what I have to do is what I have to do, what I have to keep track of and what I have to bring this country forward with the majority group of the camera. That's why, Your Honor, it seems like a lie that you're coming here again with the concert mantra. You seem to have an assembly; I think it's all right. In 2019, in the debate of the state of Autonomy, he talked timidly about the debate of the economic concert. In the year 2021, which we just celebrated, he said. He said this in effect: we want an economic concert. But in the motions for resolutions in the Chamber, the economic concert of the BNG disappeared. This was a week ago. Now it turns out that the concert has to be resumed. You must have an assembly. But Galicia doesn't mind the nationalists' assemblies, but it's important to get ahead every day. Look, Your Honor, the concert is a joke. And I don't say so, said any economist, any farm specialist, any expert in the Organic Law on Financing of Autonomous Communities and any expert on financing of autonomous communities. The socialists say it; I don't know if these, of course they were, and I suppose these too. So don't come here to propose a nonsense for the country. Don't talk to me about it, Mrs. Pontón. Our proposals are intelligent proposals, proposals that are ripened, contrasted by doctrine, by independent economists, by people who know about public estate and who have been following the system of autonomous funding for 40 years: firstly, to review the weights of the age groups in health expenditure; secondly, to deduce the dependent age groups; thirdly, in education to take account of the standard of compulsory education and also the expenditure of children's schools, which in Galicia are 100% free; to better weigh the dispersion, and, of course, lordship, a new model to avoid depopulation, and especially focused on rural areas. And why? The population over 65 years in Galicia is 25.7 % of the population; in Spain, 19 %. The number of older than 85 years in Galicia is 5 %; in Spain it is 3,3 %. Why don't we talk about this in the health field? The age of 65 accounts for 50 % of all hospitalization episodes and 62 % of health expenditure. Why don't we talk about this in funding the whole country?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u32	Look: we have 14% of the health centers across Spain and only 6% of the population. That's the dispersion. Let's talk about it, Your Honor. Your Honor, we have an over-cost health expense for the dispersal of more than five million euros. We are Spain's first public transport company with school transport. A doctor in Galicia serves fifteen population nuclei, in Spain two population nuclei. Right, Your Honor, it would be reasonable to make a joint proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u34	...of the camera groups in relation to dispersal, aging, depopulation and rural? Unfortunately, Your Honor, the nationalists do not turn to Galicia, the nationalists join themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u36	Nothing else. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u37	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u38	Mr President of Parliament, I believe that today -- seeing what is happening lately in these sessions -- we have to make a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and that this is the control session for the opposition, because Mr Feijó's escapism, the truth, is a portrait of his inability to give serious debate. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, do you know what a nonsense is? It is to have a President of the Union who does not trust this country and who comes to this parliament to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that with his taxes he cannot afford to pay for health care, education or public services. That's nonsense, that you're pointing to the false idea that Galicia is a poor country and that we don't have the resources to be able to fund our public services. [[Applause]] You have harmed Galicia on many occasions. Do you know what one of them was? When he signed a financing system that has caused us to lose more than nine billion euros since 2009 because it has harmed Galicia's interests. And you signed it from your fist and letter, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And their stories are to come here to be afraid and introduce elements that have nothing to do with the financing system. Because he knows that pensions don't pay them the financing system, the pensioners who pay them are the workers and the workers with their contributions. So don't come here to scare people because it's all right, Mr. Feijóo, and because it only shows their weakness. [[Applause]] And you know what happened a week ago? That you voted against each and every one of the proposals we put forward in this debate of the state of the nation, of each and every one. That is your dialogue, including the creation of a commission to address a matter as serious as the financing model. Why don't you want to talk in Parliament about the financing model, Mr Feijóo, what do you have to hide, or is there no proposal in this area either? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because the bad thing is, you come here and keep thinking about Galicia in a little while. It's not enough to fight half a tenth, one tenth or one more point, is that we have to go through and change the paradigm and have an ambitious proposal. [[Murmurs.]] And I -- I'm telling you -- I know that because of ideology you have to defend centralism and embrace centralism, Mr. Feijóo. But there are a lot of proposals in this framework that could move Galicia forward, and you don't want to defend them. I've told you several in my speech, and I'm going to repeat it because as Mr Puy slaps so much he's probably not able to listen to them: to increase the percentage of tax yielded to 90%, we're talking about VAT and IRPF, and we could get up to four billion euros more in this system; secondly, to claim the transfer of corporate tax; thirdly, to tax companies that have productive activity here, and that we move towards green taxation and fair taxation, in which they are not given gifts to high incomes and if they use the system to perform a redistributive and social justice function. You, Mr. Feijóo, will know what you want to do. And you, Mr. Feijóo, above all you have to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks why you don't trust Galicia and you prefer them to decide in Madrid, and you don't have the key to our money, and you don't even have a greater financial autonomy. It's the portrait of a president who thinks Galicia is small, and Galicia deserves to think big, Mr. Feijóo. Think big, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u40	Your Honor, if we don't give the reason for the nationalist proposals, we're in opposition. It's a good plan. Mr. Fernández Leiceaga, president of the Socialist Party of Galicia and Senator -- I read -- : "The own tax coupon would seriously harm Galicia, with a decline in resources for the Galician Union every year over a billion euros." A quite competent Member in the Socialist Party, which, unfortunately, is no longer competent. Mr. Santín -- I quote -- "We can stay with 100 percent of the collection and not come to pay for what the Autonomous Community needs." An ex-conseller of the Socialist Party's Fairy: "The economic concert is contraindicated". We follow, Santiago Lago -- I suppose we know Professor Santiago Lago, because he is a recognized expert in the field of self-financing -- : "Asking Galicia for a system especially from a strictly financial point of view would be to make the harakiri." It's not me, Your Honor; it's all the people I'm quoting. The president of the Greek economists: "The Basque and Navarro cup are anachronisms. The problem of a possible concert that would have to be generalized would be impossible." The Professor of Public Affairs of the University of the Basque Country: "The loss of income was more than 3.8% of GDP." Except for the nationalists, we all agree that the summit concert, from a strictly economic point of view -- let's leave politics aside, let's leave the conception of the nation, let's leave the conception of the state, let's leave the conception of equity, equality, and solidarity between the peoples we make up Spain, that's apart --, it's nonsense. And it comes with the stories of Greek nationalism back into a nonsense. And he wants the Government of Galicia to go into his nonsense just to get us to be a pactist. Look: I agree with Galicia. If you want to deal with us, we're absolutely willing. It is surprising, Your Honor, that you can understand me with six presidents of the Socialist Party in Spain and that you cannot understand me with the German nationalists. It is surprising, Your Honor, that we have more points in common eight autonomous communities in Spain than the points in common that we can have the majority party of Galicia and the German nationalists. [[Applause]] It's just the ideological heist, absolutely closed, that we don't agree with the majority so that minorities are forced on the majority even if we lose. No one would happen, Your Honor, to propose to Galicia a loss of its economic resources. Look: the corporation tax if we transfer it, we lose it; there are the accounts made, Your Honor. If you want to talk about EVI, as long as transfers in the percentage of EVI are the same for all autonomous communities, we can talk about it. To talk about accounts, yes; to stories, no. Your Honor, what you should be saying is: are you in agreement with a multilateral financing system, that is, among all the autonomous communities? Or are you in favour of Catalonia having a specific financing system and the rest of us have the adverse consequences of that bilateral system? Are you with Galicia or with its electoral partners? Do you believe that the financing system for Galicia is the one that leaves the head office of left Republican Catalonia or the headquarters of the country's majority government and that this parliament has debated? Yes, Your Honor, when the Socialist Party was trying to make proposals in Galicia and not look at the environment, we made a proposal, which you voted against and the People's Party and the Socialist Party voted in favour, which are the criteria of the financing system in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u42	The block against it, of course. What do you mean? If here's what matters is catechism. I know you don't like catechism. [[Laughter]] You know it from memory; nationalist catechism you know it from memory to zeta. I only know Galician catechism, which is to defend the interests of the country above all, above any ideological approach and any political approach. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u43	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u44	...I regret your position. And I'm telling you the truth, because I think you should start taking a stand within your organization. It's okay, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] He doesn't think we political parties have to all agree on everything. So I'm going to defend the country; if you want to defend the country, you have the tender hand. Now, as President of Galicia, as you will understand, I can understand with the cantabrian regionalists, the socialists of Castela-A Mancha, Aragon, the Extremadura, the socialists of Asturias... it is very surprising that the German nationalists do not aim to defend the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u45	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u46	Look: between the Republican Left of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u47	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u48	...and Galicia, I'm staying with Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u50	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u51	Thank you. We're still on the agenda. [[Pause.]] One second... there's an institutional statement I need to read. [[Pause.]] Institutional declaration on the occasion of a day dedicated to rheumatic diseases
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u52	I read a statement that brings the groups to me: On the occasion of the celebration during this month of October 2021 of the Rheumatic Diseases Day came to this presidency, promoted by the Rheumatic League Galega, an institutional statement signed by all political groups to read: "One in four adults suffers from some of the 300 known rheumatic diseases. In Galicia alone more than half a million people live with these pathologies, and, for example, in the University Hospital Complex of Coruña there are four thousand new diagnoses every year. Rheumatic diseases can become very incapacitating from very early age, as is the case with rheumatoid arthritis. That's why it's necessary to socially realize that these kinds of pathologies are increasing and ending with the false belief that they are associated with old age. This is the starting point to be able to recognize the symptoms as soon as possible and avoid permanent damage to disability. The great concern today is the chronicity and comorbidity of these diseases. Patients often require a socio-health approach. And in order to be able to give an efficient response to the Galician Union, you have to look for social alliances and target budgeting and staff enough to change the care model and ensure that it is done in time and form. Rheumatic diseases cause pain, tiredness, swelling or swelling of joints and mobility limitations; frequent symptomatology among the general population. One in four people has or will have any of these symptoms at some point in their life. Children and adolescents also suffer from rheumatic pathologies. In fact, juvenile idiopathic arthritis affects one in every thousand children and is, along with diabetes and after asthma, the most prevalent chronic disease in childhood. This chronic inflammation may result in irreversible functional deterioration that affects the child's life, causing, among other things, school absenteeism and hindering their social integration. In addition, it is necessary to remember that an important percentage of bullying that takes place in schools is usually aimed at children with disabilities. Rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases constitute the first cause of permanent disability in our country. [[Erems]] Arthrosis causes 52 % of invalids, while rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis cause 2,2 % and 1,3 % of invalids respectively. Besides, I'm the first cause of temporary disability in Galicia. In 2010, around EUR 1,678 million was spent on temporary work disabilities, of which EUR 433 million were borne by companies themselves. Patient associations have direct contact with patients and are focused on specific pathologies that require different pathways of action. Contacting people with the same illnesses and needs is important support for patients. For all this, these groups ask political representatives to consider the impact of Eremes on our community, because they affect the country's health, social and productive system. I would like to ask the honourable Members and the Members of this House to welcome them as their own. The Galician Parliament reiterates its commitment to the rights and needs of the people suffering from these diseases. Keeping the Eremes in line is a commitment from all of us. Santiago de Compostela, October 27, 2021."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u53	Now yes, we're still on the agenda. Ana Pontón Mondelo's inquiry and eighteen other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on Galician Union policy on water cycle management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u54	Mr Bará has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u55	Good morning. We have just attended a very exemplifying debate. We've seen how BNG talks here about defending Galicia's financial interests, just to have more fiscal and financial capacity, and Mr. Fexóo speaks to us in Catalonia. It's very good to see how centralism unites, that centralism injected into the vein to defend prejudiced positions for Galicia. This is the real face of the People's Party. And the problem I think is that Mr. Faixóo is more and more acting as the leader of the opposition. [[Applause]] It must be that he's getting ready for 2024 by now, he's training for 2024. Counselor -- going to today's debate -- I really have to congratulate you. I have to congratulate you because yesterday you and your department made an attempt to play a game, which was to use a report from the Galician Competition Council on October 2, sending it on October 26, just when there was a debate in this parliament about AP-9. It took twenty-four days to send a report because they wanted to do counter-programming what was being debated here. That's the respect you have for this parliament. [[Applause]] By the way, a Competition Report, like the Advisory on the Conventions, which you have applied, assumed them and opened the works of that convention in 2011, which supports the theses that the BNG defends on the cancellation of extensions. But you didn't take that path. They should have used those reports to support the position of the BNG in yesterday's debate and they didn't. Of course, that was half good for them, half bad for them, because they didn't buy all their means. What was fatal to them was the indecent play of using the Consultative, manipulating the Consultative in abruptly in the report on the Port of Marín and the adscription of Ence. Because yesterday he left the Advisory Committee clarifying that the future of Ence does not depend on the accession to the land of the Port of Marín, it depends on the judgement of the Supreme Court. Mr Fexóo went to Madrid to use that report in an honest way to defend the permanence of Ence. It's not all right, it's not shortcuts, it's not cheating, it's not cheating, it's using the Consulting as a convention. Look at: water policy, water cycle policy. We have to have a starting point, which is that water is a basic asset -- I think we agree with this -- and that it is also, against what it seems, a very scarce, a very limited one, even in the country of rain and in the country of ten thousand rivers. It's a rare and limited asset. That's what we agree on. And we also agree that we have serious water management problems. You talk about the water cycle and specifically about supply, sanitation and purification. We understand that we have to have a broader view because the water cycle is much more, you can't have this linear and finalist vision. But, well, that's what we'll talk about later. It is clear that we have a serious water problem, which is a country problem and has to have a country solution. A solution involving all administrations and -- I'd say more -- the whole society, also for a principle of co-responsibility that we have in this matter. And they're not worth unilateral solutions, they're not worth imposed solutions, they're doomed to failure. That's why I've already told you that Junta is going the wrong way if it's going to impose military hands on this project that they call it "better water cycle management." And it's going to end as bad as the previous attempt to create a water management society called the "Water Sougama" was over. They started bad by name, didn't they? Counsellor, this Water Cycle Anteproject, which we also baptized as the water flavor law, was born badly. And he was born badly because he was born with a significant deficit in dialogue and participation. That's why they had a powerful answer from the Fegamp. I have here the report of allegations that Fegamp made, and we can say that he doesn't let us lie in the head in this law. The Fegamp, which is the representation of all the municipalities, and I remind you: the PP, the PSOE, the BNG. And that report is shared and signed by Fegamp technicians. This report says things like that this preliminary draft law lacks economic memory, which lays down obligations for municipalities which must be accompanied by funding channels, which do not respect municipal autonomy, which creates new functional entities such as urban agglomerations without legal support, which imposes actions on municipalities which compromise their capacity to spend and invest, and which will assume an increase in the service price; in particular, it does a study, an analysis, of the increase in the costs that it will have for the new taxes or the change of taxes that you make, and that they value in one sixty percent. And that's why they ask for something very clear and very concrete, which is to reconsider the processing of this text, to be done in a consensual manner between the Union, the Councils and the Deputies. That's why we're telling you here that Junta and Galician Waters are making big mistakes, because they want to start home on the roof, because before they take forward this draft law should complete the work of the local Water Pact, which has been paralysed for two years, despite the agreements we had in this parliament, and because they should elaborate and approve the general plans that are provided for in the Water Law: of supply and sanitation. The sanitation just hired the first phase. It was planned to make these plans in the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan 2015-2021. We're in 2021 and now they've hired the first phase of the General Sanitation Plan, which will take year and half to do it. So you have to wait for that planning to be able to address all the issues that you're putting on the table. And there is a need for a deep, quiet and quiet debate, which must also start to recognize evidence, which is that the developmental model that has been carried out, which has basically been based on burying miles and kilometers of pipes throughout the country, has not been used. Because that model is based on what are called the "grey infrastructures," that is, on centralized networks where the dirty and clean waters are carried. The warden of Galician Waters was alarmed the other day that they were detecting that there were many streams connected to the pipes. For something it will be, because these infrastructures were designed and damaged, many of them from the plans of Galician Union itself. Yes, it is. And that's why those clean and dirty waters end up in the sinks and then they end up lying in the sea or in the rivers. That's right! For that is an absolutely finalist and linear approach that makes no sense in the world in which we are today. We have to go to other kinds of solutions: green infrastructure solutions, protection and prevention-based solutions, savings and reuse, and combining grey infrastructures, these pipes, with green infrastructures, and nature-based solutions. These are the solutions that the world has developed, or that the planet has thought about, for many centuries ago, and that must be used today, because they are the best. It's not the best gray infrastructure with 99% of the investments. The model and the mindset must be completely changed when we face these debates. That's why BNG brings proposals here. We are a group, of course, of opposition, to criticize, to contrast, to debate, but also a group of proposals, to offer future alternatives to this country. And that's why we propose a 2030 water strategy, which has to be the result of a great social and institutional agreement, with measures to protect and conserve resources, which is absolutely fundamental, because it is the starting point for everything. We can't have the wetlands in the state they're in, Counselor. You guys have that bicephaly at the joint, which doesn't know one head what the other does. Because, on the one hand, there's the Environment, which allows that devastation of wetlands, with large predatory projects, and on the other hand, there's Galician Waters -- before they were together but now they've separated them -- and they don't know what they do to each other. And you could read what the Green Strategy of Galician Waters says, which I have here. Wetlands and turbulence must be protected; it is absolutely fundamental. It must be an absolutely priority country project. Second. Measures to save and reduce water consumption. Because we're among the communities that have the most water consumption, we have to drastically reduce consumption. Third. Water re-use and recycling measures, which are not being done in this matter. Fourth. Greener and less grayer infrastructure construction measures and proximity solutions. Unable to build kilometres and kilometers and kilometres of pipe that end in a large debugger because that doesn't work. And if we bet on these paths, on the new water culture, we can make our country a real reference, with innovative, sustainable and efficient solutions. That's why we want to ask you the questions you already know: Are they going to make the yellow sanitation and supplies plans?, are they going to do them?, when are they going to do them? Because the sanitation is in the first phase. Second. Will the work of the local water pact be completed, which started in 2013? We're in 2021; without time it wasn't! Third. Are you going to remove the bill? Fourth. Were they going to open a dialogue and negotiation process with all parties as Fegamp asked? And finally, do you really, Counsellor, go to work for a big country agreement on water that we need so much? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u56	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u57	Very good morning. Thank you, President. Mr. Bará, for a moment I thought I wouldn't talk about water. I'm glad he finally resumed his intervention, and today we're talking about water. I really appreciate you bringing this initiative to debate this draft bill of improvement of the entire water cycle. And we agree: water is as valuable as limited and deserves a deep and heavy reflection of the current situation, of the current problems, of the tools to find solutions to improve the integral cycle of water. Mr. Bará, you should know: for us to rule is where there are problems facing them. The easy thing would be to look at the other side, because we started talking about municipal competences; we could leave the municipalities to their luck and that they had arranged themselves this matter of sanitation, purification and supply. But we are there to deal with the problems and to help the municipalities in this task, of course, complicated, costly and often ungrateful because it's very difficult. At the Galician Council this way we understand it, and our duty is to involve ourselves in helping the municipalities. And we do it because water is essential to live -- we all know -- but water affects public health, fishing, seafood, aquaculture, tourism and, of course, environmental resources like wetlands. That's why water management is important and how to deal with it, because when the whole water cycle works, it affects all of this that I just related. So all administrations have to reach their shoulders to help the municipalities in that complicated task they have, which is water management. We address it with seriousness, with diligence and courage -- I would say -- and without trap or cardboard, without complexes, without caps and with a vocation of improvement, which is how we deal with the problems of such a relevant matter, which I am grateful to be able to address here today and that we want to enrich it with constructive proposals, Mr Bará, that are constructive to enrich the text. I believe that Parliament is the really ideal forum to put white on black, and we do so with as much transparency as possible, Mr Bará. Twice we have extended the deadline for public consultation. I didn't get any allegations from you, I'd like to thank you. In any case, we're open for when you consider it that way. We made different presentations with Fegamp technicians, continuing with the Local Water Pact, meetings with Fegamp, where we invited the deputies, a webinar, where he could connect any and ask any questions without any filter. Therefore, an exercise of transparency and unprecedented dialogue for this law. We're already analyzing the arrivals received. I am forwarding that, of course, we will accept some, that we will incorporate them into the text before it is approved by the Board of Trustees. In any case, I think it's wise to address it today so that you care about the constructive issues that you can raise. This didactic work is therefore essential. And what you have is the obvious hunger for confrontation and wear. That's the rush you've got in relation to water and everything. It saddens me, Mr Bará -- who knows how to respect it -- to check that for the main party of the opposition the water flows so little; it saddens me very much because I really think you know what we're talking about. And it saddens me because they turn water management into the worst policy, which is to use lies. I believe that with those false premises, with falsehoods, the conclusions, therefore, are false, and no matter how many times they say a lie doesn't make it true, they never do. I don't know if it's out of ignorance or out of desire, but there are problems, common problems, serious problems, lots of Town Councils... I'm surprised those constant contradictions in this matter by the party you represent, because they're put behind the banners to talk about healing the rivers or rivers, and now not by the no, it's always not, of course not. It's a law that protects the quality of water. And you use the main, incredible, abstract argument, which is the easy lie to talk about the receipt. That's the easy lie, Mr. Bará. Of course, it's incredible; I think water is a more serious topic to speak with more depth and more seriousness and professionalism. The facts, I think I'm doomed, because we've got 1,100 million euros invested to support the municipalities that have a problem; another 100 million euros for next year. Of course, investments to help municipalities are important. And they accuse us, first, of what we don't solve, and when we solve the problems, because we're solving the problems, that we invade competition. But don't you see that they're incoherent? And the Greeks, of course, who are not fools. I would also ask him, "What don't you understand about the word "voluntary"? Voluntary, optional, that is, a municipality if you want, yes; if you don't want a municipality, no. What does he not understand about the word "voluntary"? So I'd like to know what we're left with. You take anything for ammunition against the Galician Union, do whatever you do, even wanting to improve the quality of the water. Those apocalyptic chronics of the BNG, Mr Bará. I think you'll know I'm not impressed anymore, don't you, or don't you remember the transport plan? Surprise, the world is not over; there are drivers, there are buses, much better... it's incredible. The municipality of Pontevedra, finally thanks to that transport plan, has buses, thanks to the plan of the Galician Union has buses from Galician Union. You see that apocalyptic chronicle that the world was ending with the Galician Joint Transport Plan. So, I think with that example all remains said, and in that crusade because they put the entire cycle of water with lies and lies. Half of the debuggers work badly, they have weaknesses, and therefore action is needed. And BNG gets very nervous, very nervous when we talk about water. I think it's such a complex subject that I'm going to get over it, and then I'm going to give you some data, because there are concrete examples. Counts: Pontevedra, the only city where the Town Hall of Pontevedra, the BNG, doesn't want to know anything about the debugger. Of course, he's a brown man; he doesn't want to know anything. Thirty million euros to clean up Pontevedra's creek. Where you rule, we're going to help. The environmental concierge doesn't know how to reach the pumping of Cocheras, the most important pumping of Galicia-Costa in residual waters of its competence. I'm here and we have to tell him to get to the Cocheras pump, which he can't reach. But what about water management? Bueu Town Hall, do not turn on the UVA rays from the debugger; it doesn't matter whether or not the quality of the waters is affected. They're not on fire because they're very expensive. Tomineño Debugger and water management for Tomineño. That's already for the worst part of water management in the Town Hall of Tomiño. Of course, Mr Bará, they worry about us because Tomino's debugger you know perfectly well that it manages the waters of Galicia, doing a titanic favor to the Town Hall of Tomino by taking that debugger. The Town Hall of Tomine, where the BNG rules, rivers and rivers and seas to the collector network and who loves the debugger. And, therefore, to the excesses and the evils and the worst to do the BNG in Tomineño, what do you do? A taste to the Greeks: 120,000 euros a year they pay all the Greeks, their neighbors of Pontevedra, for the mismanagement of the Town Hall of Tomine, the BNG, on their networks. How do you think all the Greeks...? Counts: in ten years, millions of euros. So that's a bad thing to do. The debugger of Rianxo, for the same thing: landfills and infiltrations to the network, the debugger is affected, and the Union of Galicia has to go through these disasters. In Ribadeo's EDAR, too, excess rainwater in the municipal network. Poio Debugger, that's already a note of Poio Sanitation. In the Poio Town Hall, where you rule, your goal was very clear: you don't want to know anything about purification, and the goal is to clear the rest of the municipalities the residual waters that are generated in the Poio Town Hall. Of course, solidarity, zero. He can't find a plot. So I don't know what it seems to you that we put conditions in the Town Councils to manage their debuggers. I think it's obvious that it is. The attitude of the BNG is clear, because it's a matter that doesn't mark its priorities, because where it governs is its worst doing. And I insist: there's a lot of lies, and it's a voluntary subject. He never had the powers of the Galician Union, so we're not going to force or invade powers. I've never seen so many lies. Mr Bará, the example you have: why don't they apply water management well in Pontevedra, in Bueu, in Tomineño, in Rianxo, in Ribadeo, in Poio? So they have clear examples of what wrong to do, of how much worse to make BNG Town Councils of their competition. Look at the sanitation networks of these municipalities. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u58	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u59	Counsellor, accuse you here in this gallery of the BNG of lying. Well, I'm going to tell you who's accusing you, you're accusing Fegamp, because it was Fegamp who questioned the content of this draft law and who denounced the abusive increase in water rates by 60%. And here's the report you sent to Fegamp on September 15th in the extension of the deadline or the first time you pulled this out, where you report on all the deficiencies in this draft law and also on the increases in tariffs. [[Applause]] [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a document.]] It's not BNG, it's Fegamp; it's Fegamp, that is, BNG, PP and PSOE; the three parties endorse this document. So you're accusing Fegamp of lying and falsifying reality. Be careful with your words. And you're talking and you're assuming here that you've invested 1,100 million euros. Well, that's a problem. The problem is, they invested 1,100 million euros wrongly, with these grey infrastructures, with these big infrastructures, which are not the right ones and the right ones for our country. With the dispersion we have, 30,000 nuclei of population, you can't put miles and kilometers of pipes to take them to a debugger and then pour those contaminated, dirty waters to the sea or to the rivers. Not like that. And, of course, as you have no arguments, to defend your policy comes here to attack the Town Councils of BNG. The Infrastructure Adviser comes to Parliament's rostrum to attack the Councils of the BNG. They'd like you to have a model water policy like the Pontevedra Town Hall, they'd like it! If there's no town hall with so few water losses like Pontevedra. [[Applause]] The EDAR of Pleasures -- I remind you --, Counselor, gives service to five municipalities; it's supra-municipal. And you know why you manage the waters of Galicia, you know why? Because we were demanded to manage it more than ten years ago, because it was the Board who demanded to manage it. And you know why? Because they wanted to keep the waters of Ence under control. That's the big problem, they wanted to protect the interests of Ence, because you always go from the hands of Ence. That's why they wanted to control the Praceres' debugger. Poio's problem is solved, which was a problem of Poio and Sanxenxo. And do you know how it's resolved after you use it as a battle horse? Because he has declared himself of general interest in the State and is resolved. And you're talking here about many municipalities of BNG, of Bueu, of Ribadeo... but what about Marín? There aren't many municipalities governed by the PP, actually, in Pontevedra province, but I'm putting these cases on him. What do you say, they're copies? I could tell you about many debuggers that manage the Galician Union that are a disaster, some very recent construction, like that of Cambados. And you accuse the municipalities of doing things wrong? Well, you're the first to hurt them. And they have to recognize one thing: that this is a shared responsibility, it's a shared competition, because you've put in the law that also have skills in supply and sanitation. With this preliminary project, what they do is they lay down duties and obligations to the municipalities and also -- this has talked little, but it's going to talk -- to the water communities, to the neighboring betrayals, which will also have a good taste of this law in the form of investments and also in the form of payment of new fees. Besides intrusion into municipal autonomy -- as Fegamp denounces -- you don't put the economic or financial memory in this law, which is a basic issue. And you impose an abusive rise in taxes. You say, it's voluntary. Of course, but you're using coercive and blackmail pressure mechanisms to get the municipalities through the air. It's absolutely unacceptable, indecent, intolerable what you did with the mayor of Tomino. You can't do that, you can't attack a mayor because you criticized the law, Counselor. Or did you send that threatening letter -- yes, threatening, yes --, coercive, to all mayors who are in the same situation as Tomino's, threatening that they have to do the works and that they have to do the things, if they're not to be passed over the debugger, when that debugger was managed by the People's Party Board since it was built? What's that coming to, Counselor, or is this...? Anyway, I keep the word. And you're also going to have to make up to seven plans of investment in works to the municipalities, to all the municipalities. That's not going to be voluntary, it's going to be compulsory for this law, it's not voluntary. And it's going to involve city hall investments, which put their financial capacity at risk in a context like what we are and their investment capacity, because they're going to have to apply the entire investment capacity to this chapter. You wouldn't get there, Counselor, look what I'm telling you. And finally, about dialogue and participation. You used the unilateral and tax route; you opened the deadline in August, you extended it twice, because you asked Fegamp. But on his own, they would do it this way, machamartillo. You haven't done a prior consultation process that must be done in all laws, talking to all the affected parties. And Fegamp asked them to extend the deadline, but he also asked them something else, Counselor, bear in mind, which was the primary request, asked them to withdraw this preliminary draft...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u61	...and I think it's the most sensible thing. Are you going to remove the preliminary draft, Counselor, and open a dialogue process? I want you to answer this question, because for the first time you didn't answer me. With all the parties, would you leave behind that policy of order and command? And are you going to make the necessary planning that's in the law, the Greek Sanitation Plan? Are you going to finish -- as this parliament asked you in 2017 for a unanimous agreement -- the local water pact? Answer these questions, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u62	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of interrogation, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u63	Thank you, President. Mr. Bará, Fegamp has made mistakes, some major error in the tariff structure, failing to comply with tax regulations, and knows it, and you recognize it. He's here challenged, and I see he doesn't have it, to see if he's exposed to light. I don't know if I can hand it over to the President of Parliament or how I do it, but I want you to count and send Mr Bará our claims to Fegamp, so he won't transfer any more lies. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows a document to the House and its presidency.]] I'd like to think it's Mr Bará's big mistake to ignore water management. [[Applause]] And on the subject of Tomino, I, of course, celebrate that the mayor of Tomino sends rivers to the debugger and that they have to pay all the Greeks, even their neighbors of Pontevedra, and that we must applaud her... and no threatening letter, Mr Bará, for God's sake!, when I offer the mayor three alternatives; we are offering her three alternatives. Rivers are sent to the debugger; well, if you want to keep sending rivers, you'll have to pay Tomino, not the rest of the Greeks. You can fix the network and stop sending rivers; therefore, you don't pay anything. Or, too, we give him back the cleaning woman with a lattice, without a problem, and we stop collecting anything, we're not going to collect anything. Therefore, no problem with which the mayor of Tomino assumes the management of the debugger. We're delighted. And you, surely, are delighted how the sanitation system will work there. So, speaking of the draft water law, I would recommend a second reading. They have that peculiar cosmovision of management that we do at the Galician Council, you think of Galicia as little, little, little, more Greek. You think of Galicia as little, because it's true that in the municipalities where you rule, you are not an example of good water management. We recognize that it is a problem, that it is difficult, that it is ungrateful, that it is costly, that it does not sell. That's why we're involved and we help the municipalities. You guys once say we have to help, and other times we invade skills. Let's see if they're clear! We want to work intensively to solve those deficiencies. Because the main objective of the law is to help, to help the municipalities. And the next main goal is to improve water quality; it's to optimize, professionalize water management, helping with investments. Next year: 100 million euros, and we'll have a chance to talk about it at the budget show. This law implies regular, broadening, extending such support in equality, with objectivity, efficiency and co-responsibility. Then we coincided with the councils, the Junta, the deputies, Your Honor. I'm applauded that the Deputy of Pontevedra doesn't want to know anything about helping the municipalities in this matter worries me, I'm sad. You cog over there, and I think I should do something. Of the only Members involved in this issue is the Deputation of Ourense, with Aquaourense and in the consortium of the Barco de Valdeorras. Ask if you were in the consortium of Valdeorras' boat and ask if you're not Aquaourense. This law is born of the need, of the exhaustive study, of the knowledge of the territory. We raised 2,500 kilometers of collector network by helping the municipalities. It's going and going back to Madrid several times. Here's what happens. And it's not the fault of the debugger, Mr Bará; no, it's confusing. I would suggest a course of hydraulic management, to be possible, accelerated, which I would think would be welcome, and would be more constructive of the debate. Because these deficiencies in the collector network affect the debugger and are a consequence of the dumps; you cannot manage a system just thinking about the debugger. It's a brutal concept error. And we have sanitation models in the metropolitan areas and sanitation models in rural areas, you should know. I'm going to send you pilot sanitation projects in the countryside, with those green infrastructures, so where we're going, Mr. Bará. I don't think he knows what we're doing. I have to tell you that we want to professionalize water management. And it's a lie that's a tax model, because it's voluntary, regulated. It lies the creation of new rates, because they exist; it is believed in the Fegamp claim. We're going to reorder a voluntary system, I insist. I don't know what you don't know about that word "voluntary." He's lying that we want to exclude the municipalities from the investments that are not in this model, because it's another alternative to manage the works, one more alternative than the ones that exist, to offer help to the municipalities. It's a lie that the Union is diverting to more compulsory councils and more jurisdictions, because they already have them under the law of local regime bases. It's a lie that we increase the water cannon, because it's a brutal concept error. The water canon is an environmental fee, not a service fee. So I've never seen so many lies together. And I would like you to give us some good examples of good management in the municipalities where you rule and see if we learn something. The claims of Fegamp I hope you read them carefully so you can understand the concept errors you have in water management. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u64	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other Members, by G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the Italian cultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u65	Mrs. Complaines has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u66	Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Here we are again to talk about culture, to talk about culture in "monotheist slave", as you told me at some previous plenary. I'm sure you're perfectly aware of the information reflected in the UNESCO report entitled "The culture in crisis. Policy guide for a resilient creative sector", where it turns out that, in fact, the pandemic of covid-19, in which we have been immersed for more than a year and a half, has caused major damage to the cultural and creative sector, on a global basis. In Europe, in 2020, the culture sector says it was the second most affected after air transport and has suffered even more economic losses than the tourism and automotive sectors, which are well recognized by society and, indeed, also recipients of large amounts of money from the public era. I insist: the cultural sector has suffered more losses than the tourism and automotive sectors. In Galicia, of course, the pandemic has also left its footprint, we have it with us, and has also contributed to clearing many of the unknowns that were already located in 2018 in the Greek Culture Diagnosis, in that macro study that was commissioned to the Galician Council of Culture, precisely from the Galician Union, to sit the foundations and pillars of the planning of cultural policy in the Greek Government. Among the negative elements, among those unknowns that were among the Greek cultural sectors and between creation, many were already highlighted at that height, which I understand the Government took part in and good note of them. But I would like to mention some here, such as, for example, the importance of cutting public spending in culture in recent years since the Galician Union, which, according to the Diagnosis, was too aggressive for a social area that is of preferential attention. It also makes the Diagnosis the cultural participation in the rural environment as well as far below the urban environment; the growing tendency of public authorities to treat products and cultural services simply as a market value, forgetting the other fundamental part, such as immaterial value, intangible value; the difficulties for the creation sector to export creative work; the decline in the number of libraries and stagnation, in addition -- very important -- of the number of users; the rate of self-employment too high; the decapitalization of the associative tissue; the basic associative cultural movement, which is so important in our country; the difficulties to visualize cultural creation through the media or excessive investments in construction, which, of course, affect very negatively, at the expense of the cultural sector itself. In short, a broad narrative of weak elements, weaknesses that need to be addressed and which come to systematize themselves in a great conclusion, which literally tells the Diagnosis that culture policies in Galicia lack a strategy, diagnosis, planning and evaluation. Well, throughout 2020, also this year that we are on our way to finish, 2021, the Galeg Culture Observatory knows well that you have also been publishing successive reports, analyses, diagnoses of how this health, economic and social crisis has affected the cultural sectors in Galicia. And really what they're all about, even the latest one, is that culture has been one of the most damaged areas within the Greek economy, particularly those that have to do with live shows. A scenario, in addition, which also confirmed the study by Scene Galega in this comparative study she did between the years 2019 and 2020, and which we will soon see also about the current year. These diagnoses that we have been successively familiar with say that they present us with a stage marked with three pillars: on the one hand, a productive tissue in the field of vulnerable culture; on the other hand, a contraction, as is evident, in the cultural consumption by the population; and, on the third hand, a situation that still presents itself as very uncertain to the professionals of culture. There's another aspect that's very important from our point of view and that we should look at, that's also how this pandemic has impacted on the habits of cultural consumption, and for that, too, we have, from the Galeg Culture Observatory, very relevant information. Cultural spending has been markedly diminished, as it was expected, and also a very important part of the population has ceased to attend public cultural events, alleging, above all, lack of confidence in security; that is, that the cancellation of safe culture has not just been an open door that invited to enter with confidence in the enjoyment of culture. However, it is also true that there are very important positive elements here that we understand have to be the basis for the projection of cultural planning from now on. For example, it has increased in a very remarkable way, the habit of reading between Greek society, and in addition to some 20 percent of the population in Greece, it says it plans to increase its spending on culture after the pandemic, particularly for what it has to do with the performing arts, with music and with the purchase of books. In the budgets this year 2021, important economic items have been incorporated from the mobilisation of extraordinary European funds, which, of course, have allowed them to speak repeatedly of this enlargement, of those expansional budgets for the Culture Council. But this is because, indeed, since the European Union, it has been determined that public authorities must protect culture as a social value of a preferential character and as an economic sphere which also generates value and employment. In this sense, the Government of the People's Party incorporated, as a prominent share in the investment of the Culture Council, 9.6 million euros to manage since Agadic, through the creation of the hub of cultural and creative industries, of which we once again say here once again that we have only heard a couple of vaguities in this House, and very recently, in very few weeks, we read a press release; the same procedure, by course, which has brought the information to much of the sector to which it is addressed, which is the audiovisual. Finally, we must mention here also the importance of taking advantage of this moment in which we are, which has to represent a turning point also for cultural politics, to convert what could be weaknesses into strengths and to understand from our perspective, in the BNG, culture from a much broader perspective, which is based on the principle of culture as a fundamental right, as well as essential, that we have already claimed in this House. This is a good time to lay the foundations of a sustainable culture in Galicia, to rebalance that productive perspective of culture that is both installed with much more humanistic optics and that understand culture as a basic right of citizenship; to therefore favor a more social culture economy, which fights labour precariousness, which guarantees fair remuneration to creators and creators and promotes cooperative formulas that contribute to local development and to greater stability of projects and jobs, therefore. That's why we brought this interpellation and this question, Counsellor, which, in a generic way, would be: what is the proposal for cultural strategy from the council that you address, revised and adapted to the current set -- we understand that this must be the starting point -- to accompany the Greek cultural sectors on that path of recovery and economic reactivation that we also need for the Greek cultural sectors? And we asked, because really the clues that have been left to us lately didn't clear up the answers. For example, we start by refreshing the Commission for Social, Economic and Cultural Reactivation, which we have celebrated almost a year ago in this Parliament and which has put out a number of proposals which have actually just collected what the representatives of the cultural sectors have left here in appearance. Even closer to us in time, in the debate of the nation's state, held just fifteen days ago, let's see how culture -- with capital -- has only taken up time and space in the political project, in the words of the president of the Galician Union; only one explicit mention in that nominal phrase "Good Culture", which will start working on November 1 -- just for two months, November and December -- and that something more than a year and a half after this dramatic pandemic, in which we are still continuing. A debate, by the way, in which the People's Party -- as it shows characteristic and representative of its usual dialogue -- did not accept anything of our motion for a resolution on this done by reactivating Greek culture and cultural sectors, which was to commit itself to extending 1% of the regular budget of the Union, which is what they are demanding even from the European Union, to commit 2% of the extraordinary funds Next Generation, as well as to boosting the Law of the Cultural Fund, which is still planned to be developed from the Autonomy Statute. The expectation, of course, always looks, every beginning of the year, in the presentation of the budgets, for being that concrete façade...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u68	...and visible from the political project. The 2022 reading of budgets does not come up with hopeful lights representing the reactivation and consolidation of cultural sectors, while guaranteeing access to the culture of citizenship as a basic right. That's why -- I'm finished now, Mr. President -- this interpellation, Mr. Counsellor, to find out what this political project is adapted to the current circumstances of the People's Party, focused on promoting a program of stimulus for the Greek cultural sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u70	Good morning, President. Your Honor, about a year ago, also for these dates, I explained in this House what -- which was -- the road map that we've been applying since the German Government to support our cultural industries and our creative industries. Indeed, they were a few very hard months, tremendously hard and complex, and it was necessary, as you well know, to take absolutely extraordinary measures. Fortunately, from a year ago here, the context has changed greatly, and, although we should not yet lower the guard of everything, today the situation, as you know, is absolutely different and distinct from what we had at that time. The truth is, by looking back, we will realize that there have been many changes that have been made in these months, however, there is something that has not changed, and today what has not changed was this government's commitment to support culture, our creators and the whole cultural industry. What did we do? You pose a decade of consecutive disasters, little less. But what have we done over this time? Well, the truth is, we've been acting urgently since Galicia. We have found that the cultural sector, in fact, would be one of the most punished by the pandemic situation, and from the very first moment, from the junt, we have acted with two perspectives: a perspective to put in place direct aid to businesses and professionals, people whose families live in culture, and, on the other hand, indirect support that has been centered -- which is what was done from the Culture Council -- which was oriented, encouraged, encouraged and promoted and kept cultural activity alive. From the perspective of direct aid programs, it should be noted that three rescue plans have been made and that culture professionals have gone to these rescue plans. It's quantified in approximately 7.5 million euros what professionals -- small self-employed or small businesses associated with cultural activity -- have been like... I'm not going to say benefit, but if they were beneficiaries of these rescue programs. And there was also help from Igape, in this case to companies, to give liquidity mainly to these companies. And here we're talking about almost three million euros; that is, of significant economic quantities. From the field of the Culture Council, what we have done was a different policy, obviously linked to our role, which is to bet and maintain cultural activity, encouraging cultural production to keep it alive, encouraging consumption, encouraging production, promoting new formats, financing new formats and strengthening programming structures. I think there's something that I don't agree with you, because culture, during this time of pandemic, was absolutely certain, was one of the most secure activities that have been carried out, with very difficult measures, with complex protocols, but I think that cultural professionals were able to guarantee security in their events, shows and activities, and that was the basis of our performance; that is, companies and self-employed people could continue to work, perhaps as a better way to maintain employment, to maintain professional culture and, ultimately, to maintain culture; obviously, in different conditions, in different formats, and all in a very different way. From the very first moment we realized that specific actions had to be activated. We were the first autonomous community to put in place a specific reactivation plan by May 2020, a long time ago. There we put on table 26 million euros, as I say, to encourage consumption, to modify production formats and to bet on making a different culture, because it is the basis for maintaining employment in the cultural sectors. That was in 2020. And in the year 2021 we kept this line and expanded it; we kept thinking about reactivation and we kept betting on the path of growth. Right now, in 2021, 42 million euros are being invested to reactivate cultural action. Obviously, it's funding that is oriented towards professionals, people who live in culture. For what? To stimulate productive activity, professional activity, and to put in place a very plural and tremendously decentralized programming that has been carried out over these months. Obviously, we're at a turning point, fortunately. I think there were these policies that tried to help, as it should be, culture at the time of the pandemic, and we had positive results. In the end, I think they were well oriented and there were positive results. You quote the Barometer of the Councillor of Culture. I will also quote the Barometer of the Galeg Culture Council, from which we are provided with data that helps us, to some extent, to be something more optimistic than what you propose. We're told by the Barometer that professionals are increasingly recovering from normal activity, that companies and self-employed companies' bills are recovering, and that they are quickly reducing those professionals affected by exceptional measures, teleworking, ERTE, etc. And he also tells us something very important: that Junta is the most valued administration by professionals; much more than the state, of course, and much more than the municipalities. By the way, the BNG rules in some municipalities, however, the general result is quite small, and let's not say the government of the state anymore. The truth is that the Ministry has completely forgotten its role, and it seems that the Ministry of Culture is kind of a consolation prize for the socialist government, which you support whenever you can. In any case, I'm sure this data from the Barometer that was taken early in summer will even be much better now. I don't have the slightest doubt that they'll be much better, but, as we're saying, we have to keep working, and we keep working. You quoted the Culture Bonus. In fact, the cultural bond is now under way, and it emerges from something that you -- or you, your political formation -- practically did not take into account: the Reactivation Commission. This was a proposal by the People's Party, and in this committee, economic quantities were allocated both to the Good Culture and, in this case, to the reactivation of professionals. And much of this money has been devoted to professionals in the world of culture, like, for example, what professional orchestras are. What do we want to do with the Good Culture? To encourage consumption -- I think it's very important -- through a system of discounts, both for the purchase of products and for the purchase of services. We want to encourage consumption. There are other cultural bonds too, right? which seem to encourage other things. Then I'm sure we'll agree. Here you want to encourage consumption through an economic contribution that will mobilise about four million euros and enable a person with no age limit -- of course, you have to be older, but no age limit -- you can benefit from 50 % of the purchase of cultural products or services up to a top of 50 euros. This initiative is already under way. Today we have more than 300, namely, 329 affiliated establishments -- I'm sure many more will be added -- and we hope that from November 1st -- also matching Christmas -- if you can push, mobilize a significant amount of targeted resources, as I say, to buy cultural products and services and inject liquidity, in this case, into the commercial sectors of the culture world. And, as I said, with an objective: to encourage cultural consumption against other bonds that seem to want to encourage other things. In any case, we're already looking at the year 2022, we're in full budgetary debate and we're already setting the lines behind the next budget. I'm going to show you -- as you know -- in very few days in the House, and I've already told you that this year's culture budget grows by 6 percent, compared to the previous year. It's been growing by a lot of years, and we're growing by 6% this year. What do we want to do with this 6%? We want to continue to have a cultural policy of absolutely decentralized programming, which absolutely supports rural development. There are few cultural programming policies more decentralized than the one proposed by the Galician Union, without a doubt, with constant support for space and rural environment, also with a great vision of internationalization, trying to internationalize the creative activity of our creators and, of course, boosting our equipment. Finally, this 6 % increase in budget, what it is looking for, what it is about, is to boost cultural activity, without a doubt, through open programming, shooting, diverse, plural and decentralized. And on the other hand, strengthening creative industries because, let's not forget, culture, if we want it to be a sector where a very significant number of people lives, it has to be an increasingly professional sector. Of course it's a basic right, without any doubt, and of course it's part of our identity, but culture has to be strengthened in the cultural industry and it has to be strengthened in the creative industry. And of course, the budgets of the year 2022 go on that line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u72	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u73	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply round, Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u74	Of the reports I was referring to, indeed, to, Mr. Counsellor, because I have read them, as is this last July 2021 Barometer to which you have made reference in order to settle your intervention. But what we keep asking ourselves at the BNG is where are the assessments of the Galician Union. What are your own assessments that you've commented on, contrasting the positive or negative result of your policies? What are the evaluations of the Council of Culture, the Council of the Union? Because we need to know if the money we're investing in the Greeks and the Greeks really has those values of efficiency and efficiency and whether they have good results for the object that is practiced or not. [[Applause]] And the Council of Culture, once again, is unable to give us any kind of objective data, only the perceptions and impressions of the counsellor and the office of the Council. But, as you will understand, to us, as to the Greeks and to the Greeks, that can't be worth it, we can't conform. And I didn't make any breakdowns. You have to apologize, Counselor, but you brought some prior notes that I did not leave here at all. You can't accuse me of being so predictable, at all, because my interventions are always made for the day and the moment. [[Applause]] I didn't do that, I did the only thing I did was to read those objective reports; contrasted evaluations of all of us, and I understand that the Government must also read and act accordingly, and not follow a roadmap that is unique and exclusive to the Council, because it doesn't lead to nowhere; or, yes, it leads to becoming more and more isolated, separating and moving away from the cultural sectors, from the rich creative capacity, so vicious that we have in this country -- and that, of course, they repeatedly recognize outside of this country -- and getting away at the same time from Galician society. And that's the worst thing that can happen to a government and especially to a cultural council. And look, yes, of course the budget increases, but the problem is that it grows for what? For what? What's that roadmap you haven't explained in your intervention yet? It wasn't able to give a single specific data, nor a specific line of action and investment of that 6% in which the budget of the Culture Council will grow. How much is it going to come from that grower to culture exactly? Because he also has the responsibilities of education and university in his counseling. And for what?, for them to be cultural and for which policy of reactivating and recuperation of the Greek culture?, as you say and as they say from their advice. That's what we need to know. Because a year ago, indeed, you here declared by active, passive and peripheral, the tremendous impulse of these expansional budgets of the Council of Culture. But a year later, we asked ourselves, "Where are they?", "What's left?", which sat in the Greek culture? Because, frankly, we don't perceive it, and it's not that we don't perceive it in the BNG because we're kind of looking at it, but because we don't perceive it in the cultural sectors at all. [[Applause]] And, look, a year later, I have to keep talking about it. Actually, I have to repeat myself, because we're still in the same plan. He didn't advance himself into something as structural and important as the Galician Law of performing arts. You haven't moved forward in the integral dance plan you've been working on since when, but you don't know -- no one knows -- where the shots go. The CDG -- Galego Drama Center -- and the Galego Coreographic Center are in absolute extinction, and lowering these promising 2022 budgets. The Galego Center of the Arts of the Image...; no, sorry, the Galician Film Library, that was all the new entrepreneurial work that was done with this Galician National Film Library, changed his name... that of the works, that of the closed library, that of the lack of personnel, that of the uninvented archive and the works without beginning to wait... we'll see if 2022 or 2023. [[Applause]] That's right, we don't have programming in the Coruña anymore, it's closed, and as long as I've been looking, I don't even know why. [[Applause]] The users of the Galician Film Library don't know what's going on, just that's closed and that we're out of programming. And I don't know if those expansive budgets are going to get to the book sector because the budgets tell me not; the budgets tell me that they keep lowering investment in the book sector again. At present they do not reach 2,1 % of the total of these expanding macro-investments and in continuous and upward growth of the Culture Council. You'll tell me why there's even games aimed at the dynamization of the missing book of the Greek book, like 7701. You can take note because that one is already located too, although, as you say, we see it in a somewhat limited way. International projection is very good at quoting it, but it has to be said that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u76	I suppose -- finished, Mr. President -- that for the Frankfurt Book Fair next year, in which Spain is going to be that guest state of honor, you will also be in communication to know which program will represent the literature of Galicia and the authors and authors, because, by the way, I have read some information from Catalonia, but here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u78	...of the Culture Council, not yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u80	We hope that in this second intervention of yours if we start to believe that this could be the legislating of reactivation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u82	...of the Greek culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u83	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u84	Thank you very much, President. The truth, Your Honor, is that you are tremendously predictable. We thought we'd hear absolutely what you said. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, I think that, in the end, time always gives and takes away reasons, and you have a sense that is respectable, the bad thing is that your perception is a small perception -- as you usually say right now -- you see only the part that you want to see and you don't see the rest. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I used in my intervention data from the Galeg Culture Council Barometer, which clearly say that it is the administration best valued by cultural creators, which cannot be discussed. And you tell me we bring our own data here. I'll give it to you. But I'm also curious that, when we bring our own data, you accuse us of propaganda, advertising, autobombs, and tell us that that data is a lie. It's the first thing you do: autobomb, advertising... I say you, but I don't personalize it in you, I personalize it -- let's say -- in the opposing part, in this case, of the Government. See, in 2020-2021, the policies that have been put in place to reactivate have yielded good results. One element that clearly evaluates them is the Barometer. In 2022, I told you, the budget increases by 6% in crop games. We'll have a chance -- I think in two days, Friday -- to analyze and evaluate case by case what is done with the economic resources, in this case, of the self-government. But, look, you have a little vision -- if I may -- sad, a sad culture. And you make a really significant appreciation. He says, no, you're not on the side of society or on the side of culture, of creators. As if this parliamentary group and this government were people who were outside society. And do you not realize that we are the representatives of the democratic will of citizens and that they vote for us much more than you do? Don't you realize that? [[Murmurs.]] It's an act of sovereignty, of genuine sovereignty, to say that we have no regard for society or sectors... it's really surprising! And you say we don't do anything to support them. Look, this summer -- you're going to tell me it's propaganda -- we're programming, in collaboration with entities, with collectives, with municipalities, some 3,000 cultural events -- 1,000 linked to the Xacobeo Cultural Project Fund, 600 linked to the Culture Program on the Way, 200 of the Galician Network of Theatres and Auditoriums -- I'm surprised that you criticize the CDG, when it's at its peak; it's no longer done on the CDG. I invite you to go to the CDG to watch your programming and see the great work done on the CDG. Now, you bring your serial speech and your serial vision and you see everything very sad, very small -- as you say --. We could talk to the bands concerts funded by the Galician Union, the heritage dances and the many activities that have been going on all summer and that enabled the cultural sector to work, which is the most important, that the cultural sector could work. Obviously, this is what has been done; now we have to see what will be done. As far as we're concerned, we've scheduled some 2,500 cultural activities. And hey! you have to have a certain height of look -- I ask you that -- and don't just look at it with a short look, with the short lights and see just one way. You have that constant claim to see only one path. Obviously, for your self-consumption is fine, I don't discuss it, self-consuming it, and it's perfect, but, look, they look back and see how it was in the cultural sectors at these difficult moments of the pandemic, I think it's really to be proud of the work they've done, and not just the cultural sectors, too the cultural professionals, to be able to stay in a tremendously difficult situation; obviously, with the help of the administrations. We help, we accompany, we set common strategies, we participate, we dialogue... but we can't absolutely deny the evidence. You spoke here about the audiovisual hub, actually, as if it were something we were covering. We've had a lot of meetings with the hub professionals. You say you don't know anything. But if you just issued an order for 2 million euros a few days ago! Two million euros! Very well received by the sector. That's why I say you have a short look and a very focused look at what they're interested in, and the rest don't look at it. Well, look, in this sector -- which is a tremendously important sector for culture, which generates lots of creation links, lots of creative links -- there's a tremendously important bet for it. Or you also mention the world of the book. I'll give you very specific data on the support this board has made and does to the world of the book. And she'll probably be surprised, or maybe she'll deny it, or she'll say it's advertising or propaganda because she's being brought up by the government. In any case, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u86	...I would also ask you, as a representative of a political party that governs in many municipalities and in many deputies, that has responsibilities in many deputies and in many municipalities -- in more than we would like, I also say -- if you apply something to the story, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u87	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u88	...which also apply the story...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u90	...and pay attention to the Galeg Culture Council, which the worst rankings are for you. With which, we expect them to reform and we hope they make a kinder policy. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u92	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u93	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to the next point, questions to the Government. Question by Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the condemnation by the Government of Greece of the Machist demonstrations of the Mayor of Vilanova de Arousa addressed to the President of the Deputy of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u94	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u95	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor. "It's no longer an administrative body, it's not an administration. It is a political body governed by the City of Vigo, by the old Abel Caballero and his chacha for everything, which is Carmela Silva." "Chacha for everything." By this statement Pontevedra’s Trial of Instruction No. 3 condemned the mayor of Vilanova de Arousa, the popular Gonzalo Durán, as author of a minor offence of disrespect and consideration due to the authority in the exercise of his functions, in insulting in 2018 the President of the Deputy of Pontevedra, Carmela Silva. The author of such a miserable statement used this sentence which, recently, the Provincial Court of Pontevedra ratified in a firm resolution against which there is no appeal. The ruling of the Provincial Court is powerful. I'm going to pass the reading textually: "It is no doubt that in constitutional terms, the protests are not about a fact of public interest, but rather about a judgment of value, rather of value," says the ruling -- "in relation to the status of the woman of the President of the Pontevedra Parliament and which injures the honour of the injured person. The stated phrase contains an opinion in which expressions, words or terms are used disproportionately as compared to an offensive or ostentatious meaning, clearly sexist and macho. What he does is he attacks his performance by his status as a woman, the question that he cannot be protected by his right to freedom of expression." Proud, isn't it? However, Mr Durán, far from correcting, continues to reaffirm himself in his statements, which he considers lawful, and threatens to appeal to the Constitutional Court and even to the European. It also asserts and ratifys that "chachacha" is not an insult. And it's done that we're not surprised, it's not surprising at all that classist trial itself, by the way, of the most powerful right. But it doesn't surprise us that these statements don't mean that we don't think they must be the object of condemnation. [[Applause]] They are absolutely unacceptable macho and class attitudes that outrage all women, and that is why we miss a demonstration of rejection of the PP; of course also of the popular Members of this House, of which we have no knowledge. As I say, in the face of this situation, the Socialist Group is amazed at the unforgivable silence of the People's Party from the moment of the declarations in 2018 until today, with a firm judgment. So, with the will that you can finally pronounce today with the assurance that the mayor of Vilanova de Arousa's PP would never have pronounced those insults if that deputy had been presided over by a man, we want to ask him whether the German Government is going to condemn the macchist demonstrations of Vilanova de Arousa's mayor addressed to the President of the Pontevedra Deputy, always the Provincial Court has just ratified that sentence mentioned in a firm resolution which implies the first time that a mayor is convicted in Galicia for insulting a political rival for being a woman.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u97	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. I think the position of the German Government with respect to any masculinistic behavior that goes against women for being women is clear, well known and unequivocal. In particular, the President of the Council of Galicia has already expressed on repeated occasions the position of our government with regard to the statements you are referring to here today. He said exactly that they were disillusioned statements, that they were improper statements and that this was above any political discrepancy. And once again, I repeat here, I repeat these words, I condemn all kinds of demonstrations, attitudes that involve violence, discrimination, and supposed machoism against women. And I condemn them from where they come from and do them who do them, and we condemn them all, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I think this is not the first time that I say it in this House and, as an equal adviser, I say it in the name of the German Government. They will remember that I myself condemned other events that took place, not long ago, in a media, and I also condemned statements that violated the dignity of a Member of this House. As I say, I will always do, the government will always do it, produce where they produce themselves and come from who they come from. So, and with respect to your question, we've always rejected these attitudes, I think with the same emphasis, and I think in the same way: categorically, in a way that's all-in-one and firm. We will always condemn any manifestation, any action, any conduct, any speech and any act that he or she heeds, denigrates or has a violent character or a masculine character against women. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u98	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u99	Yes. We are glad, Counselor, to hear that condemnation, even if it is late, at least with the continuance you have just said it, and, of course, so warm. Now we would also like you to apologize on behalf of the People's Party to Mrs. Carmela Silva -- let's remember that she is still the president of the Pontevedra Parliamentary Assembly -- and also, by the way, that they invite you to resign that person who has shown that you do not deserve to occupy the position of representation that you hold. To refer to a woman as "chachacha" and to try to normalize that term of contempt to identify a woman subjected is the property of the most rancio classism and also of an exacerbated machoism. No, no; women say no to this and we say enough. Because that normalization of machismo affects us all and, as it affects us, we're also outraged. Despite what they care about, the president of the Pontevedra Parliament is a woman with the same legitimacy in the post that shows that the other three homologous men in the other three provinces of Greece. And the truth is, it must be doing very well in the sight of the attacks it receives. Let's remember that in 2016, a P.P. concierge in Moraña called this same president of the MP "bad bitch and shame". Of course, what we're asking ourselves is if you think Mr Durán would say the same thing if the President of the Pontevedra Parliament was a man. Then, after that, it's true that they can come here with feminist speeches, but the reality is that they are, of course, presenting a cynicism which is the People's Party's own cynicism, because this is not just a takeover of a mayor; his silence all this time -- and more since the judgment is known to be firm -- denotes the acceptance of such miserable words. The fact is that it is unfortunate that we have to come to this Parliament and call for a conviction, when the response to these macho attacks should have been immediate and public. We urge them to take further steps to ensure that, unfortunately, there is a greater need for this answer [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz, I don't know if you bring the speech or you haven't heard what I told you, but the president of the board, already at that time, condemned those statements. So this is not the first time that the German Government has condemned those statements. I'm reproducing here the conviction you made in your time the President of the Galician Union. So I repeat, in case it was not clear in the first intervention: we condemn all manifestations, aggression or acts against women, come from those who come and not from cynicism; we condemn them because ideologically we do not believe them. [[Applause]] So we condemn them so much that they are made by a television presenter, they are made by a mayor of our party, or they are made by the president of the parliament, governed by their political formation. [[Applause]] I repeat to you that we condemn them all, any discrimination, any gender-based violence, any kind of machismo. Your Honor, I think we have to really answer to the Greek society as a demand, with a debate without so much cliché, without so much party dispute and more moderation; because I don't think you really believe that I, as Counselor of Equality, and that the Government of the People's Party do not condemn these statements. I really believe that we need an equal consensus in society, but also a consensus among political parties. In fact, I reiterate here the commitment of the Government of Galicia to the Council and that we will not overlook any kind of masquerade expression that emerges in the public debate without denouncing it and without condemning it. But this isn't about cynicism, I repeat, it's about ideologically. There is no democratic government, there is no democratic political party, which is the case with the Government of Galician Union, which does not really condemn this kind of demonstration. Any government that creates equality and creates freedom as the basic principle of society, which is the case of the Government of Galician Union, condemns these kinds of demonstrations. And I think we're all really in agreement here, regardless of ideology and regardless of political color. With this, what I want to tell you is that we don't invent a debate where there isn't any, because this debate really doesn't exist and I don't think that you call the Government here today thinking that I, as an equal advisor, don't condemn the mayor's demonstrations. Once again I tell you that I think we can reach a consensus, and that we demonstrate consensus on equality issues, I think that this House is already in that legislation. So there are a lot more points that unite us than they do, and I really tell you that we have to be in this sense, with respect to equality, at the height that really claims Galicia and the height that they deserve and that they claim the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u102	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and three other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, on the strike of the workers of the company Imerys Kiln Furniture, in Guarda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u103	Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u104	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the workers and workers of the IKF company, in the county of the Guard -- to whom we want to say hello and thank you for your presence today in this Parliament -- have been on strike since July 14th. Forty-six days are on strike today, Counsellor, for three matters as fair as we wish to present in this Parliament today: the first of them, Counsellor, to oppose and fight against a double wage scale that the IKF company intends to impose unilaterally and through blackmail; the second of the questions, Counsellor, to protect all IKF workers through labor solidarity, because, as you know, they are a minority of the workers affected, but it is the vast majority of the staff that opposes these measures; and the third of these conditions, to defend the future of the Lower Mine County, because, precauting work in IKF, the entire region of Lower Mine is precarious. Right, solidarity and the future, Counsellor. Right, because, it's a receipt that a boy from under mine who starts working in this company covers half as much as another worker, doing exactly the same job? Solidarity, Counsellor, because it is the company that is refusing to negotiate, unless workers accept wage discrimination which extends between six and ten years. And the future, Counselor, because you have no doubt that there is a region that will be standing in front of this company's blackmail and also opposing all those who stand up to these measures. [[Applause]] Mrs. Lorenzana, you know as I do that, a few days ago, the Director General for Labour Relations was brought together with the workers and she moved that the company's attitude was not the right one. You know as I do that the Union has tools and forums more than enough to derail the situation in which negotiations are found. And you know how I am that this is a unanimous demand in Lower Mine. It can't be that the People's Party says something in Oia, the Guard or the Rosal and the contrary in this Parliament. Forty-six days off, with the impact this situation has on families and on the economy in Lower Mine. So, Mrs. Lorenzana, what we ask you here is a concrete commitment, that you move us, not to us, not to BNG, but to the workers, the day and time when you will convene the company and the representative of the workers in San Caetano to derail, to derail this situation and that once and for all you can recover the work, with decent working conditions, from the IKF company, from the Guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u105	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u106	Thank you, President. At the end of July, in fact, he called the Councillor's companion, the mayor of Rosal, concerned about the situation of strike of some IKF employees living in his county. Since then, of course, we have made ourselves available to the Council and have taken the initiative from the Council to speak to the committee, to the chairman and to the secretary of the works committee for whatever they might need. This happened, as I tell you, at the end of July, and at that moment we agreed with the chairman of the company committee to resume the talks in September, since it was the month of vacation in August. In September, we contacted IKF's human resources manager and explained that at that time they had very remote positions at multiple points of negotiation. We've been following this conflict through Vigo's Chief of Inspection and Mediator at the Galego Labour Relations Council, we've been constantly tracking and making constant contact, both with the company and with the social part, and the company and the social part have approached positions regarding themes, such as holidays, weekends pluses, holidays and layoffs. Negotiation, indeed, now continues; we continue with contacts from the Council with the Town Council, with the workers, with the company. The conflict is currently focused on these two issues that you identify: that double salary scale and the salary increase of the template. The company, right now, is implementing an agreement that has agreed with the Works Committee in 2018, an agreement that will apply to re-entry workers and workers, which, in fact, is less beneficial than the Business Committee, but has been agreed with the Enterprise Committee, and has been validated in the AGA, with which it is currently the vigent. You say the Government has tools to carry out or to install a negotiating table. That's not the case, and I want to clarify it. Legally, this is not possible; I've said it on another occasion on another occasion when you were demanding that a negotiating table be set up in the Council. The Council has no competence to formally set up a working negotiating table on a collective agreement. Legally, this is not allowed. Collective negotiation -- you know it as well as min-- is contrary to the principle of party autonomy. Collective agreements are the result of negotiation between the company and the workers. So we cannot and must not interfere formally in negotiations. Another thing is that the Employment Council and the Directorate-General for Labour Relations has been standing beside the workers and trying to mediate informally since the beginning of the conflict, and we're going to keep doing it. We also made available the Galego Labour Relations Council. The IKF company has denied any kind of intermediary of the Council; with which we cannot, if the company -- which is one of the parties that negotiate -- does not want to force the company to negotiate through the Council. With which, as I say, we've been exercising our functions since July. We'll try to continue supporting to arrive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u107	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u108	...the positions as a whole, but until now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u109	He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] For the reply, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u110	Counsellor, the time and the day you lost here today explaining to us the history of negotiations and the history of conflict is but one day more than these workers will be unable to bring the wage to their homes. [[Applause]] We understand that the Galician Union cannot be profiled. And we're telling you this because, Counsellor, it's fascinating from the People's Party that you declare yourself completely incompetent to take part in negotiations when it comes to defending the rights of IKF workers and that, on the other hand, when it comes to protecting companies where your colleagues sit on board boards, they give illegal extensions, they give dramatic reports of advisory councils without any kind of repair. Here is what we are asking you, Counselor, is that today, in front of the workers we have here in this Parliament, in front of the workers who are outside, in the street, defending their rights, you tell them what day and hour they will be summoned in San Caetano, the workers and the company, in order to bring forward solutions to this situation. [[Applause]] All the rest, the only thing you can say, Mrs. Lorenzana, is that since the People's Party they're becoming a profile. And I have no doubt that when the People's Party refuses to use tools like the one I'm moving to so that this situation can be resolved, the neighborhood of the Lower Mine will respond. He's going to answer because it's not to be received that a young man, that a person who enters this company, covers between 5,000 and 9,000 euros less than another worker doing exactly the same functions. "Day and time," Counsellor, that's the only thing the IKF workers want to listen to, and everything else is to be profiled, or, what's the same, to defend the interests of the company, to defend the interests of IKF, which is prepricing the working conditions of the workers, precarious the future of the Low Mine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u111	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. To close this question, the Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u112	Thank you very much. You're talking about the time I'm wasting here explaining the conflict. I'm not wasting my time, I'm answering because you've asked this oral question in full, if not, I wouldn't be here. So if you think this is a waste of time, because you'll know, because you were the one who posed the question. [[Applause]] He says say day and hour. It's just that we've been marking since July. I don't think you heard anything I said in the first intervention. What's a political issue? Of course. What is the mayor of his party he's trying to carry out all this mediation so that it looks like she's the one that saves the three indefinite workers who are in this situation? Of course. But I come here because you ask the question. I'm not wasting my time, I'm clearly explaining that, legally -- and you know, what happens is, politically, you don't mean it -- you can't set up a working negotiating table in the Council. That's right. So if I were to carry out a work negotiating table, I couldn't get out of an agreement that was made a modification of the collective agreement, because I'm not a mediator; mediator is the Galician Labour Relations Council, mediator is the Chief Inspector of Vigo, who acts as a mediator. This is what we've been trying to do at the Council since June, and we're going to continue doing it, with day and time, Your Honor, because with day and time the company is quoted, on the one hand, if we talk to the company, on the one hand, and to the workers, on the other. You can't set up a work table, and you know it's leftover, but you're here making politics for the workers to hear this and think -- with the exception of error -- that I could create that work table and I'm not creating it. This does not exist in any labour conflict. [[Applause]] One thing is an industrial table and another is a labor mediation. So please don't confuse terms or confuse workers. Let the workers make it clear that the Directorate-General for Labour Relations is to advise them at all times. When this Employment and Equality Council is set up, a specific general direction of a legal-laboral nature is created that goes away from the Directorate-General of Employment, precisely taking into account the situation that came from the pandemic, with all the labour conflicts that we would have ahead. That general direction is specialized in serving any company committee, in attending any company, in trying to instruct them and help them in negotiations, but you cannot formally set up that table you are talking about. If I would like to record the support that we have given to industry and workers and to workers in recent years, therefore, in particular to IKF, because we have given grants worth EUR 240.000, and these are economic aids that have contributed to the viability of this company, in particular our territory. So what I repeat to you here, of course -- and to finish -- is that any worker and any worker has the support of the Employment and Equality Council, has the direct support of the Directorate General for Labour Relations, which was created for these purposes, and, of course, has the Galego Labour Relations Council at its disposal; but, as I tell you, if the company does not want to mediate, or does not want to use the mediation of the Council, it is about autonomy and the will of the parties, and it can never be forced. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u113	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. Question by Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández and three other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on measures to prevent greenery in the Asneiro and Ten rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u114	Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u115	Counsellor, as I am a man of hope who belongs to a hopeful party, I hope that you will know that the rivers Ten and Black -- fluent in the first -- have been suffering episodes of repeated pollution for decades. And I'm also hoping that you're informed that this summer there were at least five spills in the ashtray, one of which caused effects in the form of white foam that covered the river almost completely and that you've come to appreciate clearly at the height of the fishing knife of Ximonde, which is in the Ulla River, tens of kilometers below, to finish reaching, still perfectly visible, in the stream of Arousa, which is still quite a few more kilometers below. The last of these five spills took place on 1 September, but today we do not know -- at least we do not know -- any result of the research that should have been carried out in any country that takes seriously the situation of its rivers and its environment, which, unfortunately, is not the case of Galicia. Because these spills repeated over time, and which have never been resolved by the Autonomous Administration despite having the means, the funds and the obligation to do so, are getting worse and reaching unmediated and exaggerated levels in the light of the passivity of the Board itself and of the Lalín Town Hall, where the business park and the clean-up of which -- supposedly -- are mostly these spills for many years. And I say it's supposed because, incomprehensiblely, you don't seem to know for sure, and it shouldn't be so difficult in the 21st century to detect the origin of these spills if there were any diligence and interest in doing so. So you can't afford a minute more of this passivity situation and dissipation in the face of a serious ecological problem like this, because we're talking about high-ecological river ecosystems, such as the Asneiro, Deza and Ulla rivers, which have lost most of the fish and environmental wealth they had in the past and are constantly ruining themselves, especially considering that climate change causes a progressive decrease in the flow of our rivers, which exacerbates the problem year after year, because, as I hope you know, the less water has a river, the more sensitive it is to any episode of contamination. And in addition to the ecological problems associated with pollution, the affected rivers also provide water for the consumption of different populations and, of these episodes, two -- at least -- were reported to Seprona and the Prosecutor's Office by the AEMS-Rios Association with Life and the Rio Ten Sports Society in August. That's why we ask: will Junta take some kind of measure to prevent repeated spills in the rivers of Asneiro and Ten?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Aranguena. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u117	Thank you, President. Your Honor, accuse the Passivity Board before the spills. Look, it was this government of the Galician Union that implemented this spill control plan, effective and with important investments to solve and control the spills. Does it seem passivity that in 2020 Galician waters started processing 276 cases of sanctions for pollutants and that sanctions for EUR 280,000 were already resolved? You call this passivity? Of course, we take very seriously the care of our rivers, of the water masses, always; and in all places -- not only in Lalin, but also in Melide, in Vigo and in many places, also in all Galicia-Costa, which is where we mainly have the competences -- of course, we inspected, and Junta meets. Over the past five years, 41,000 inspections conducted by the Galician Union. But at the Galician Junta, in addition to controlling, dispatching and sanctioning, we looked for the source, we amended the spills and helped the municipalities eliminate them, which is essentially where we see the origin of these spills. I'd like you to do it at the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, where you rule, which should perhaps worry a little more, because it works worse than Galicia-Costa, where we are. As I said, competences are municipal, and many of the sources of dumping come through these municipal networks. Our will is to identify them, amend them and help the municipalities in those powers. It's difficult, they have difficulties in water management, and it's complicated and ungrateful, I said it in my previous intervention. We know the Greek reality and there are many problems in this matter, which is complex. In Lalin, of course, there's a problem. The Town Hall is conscious, and in Lalín we are conscious and concerned, but we are working together on the Lalín Town Hall and the Galician Board to solve them, because the Lalín Town Hall is worried about the problems and us too. Ask us to help, and we offer that help. So, we're developing the local sanitation plan in Lalin, thoroughly analyzing all the problems, infiltrations, spills... and that detailed knowledge and that experience also comes from the Water Management Act, which is a tool for reaching solutions. But, in any case, a law that is voluntary, which will also help eliminate dumping. And we -- as I say -- we eliminate dumps, we inspect them, we file them, but above all we work to solve them. Because the easy thing is to do like the Confederation, where you rule: to sanction and I don't know more. No, we act to amend them and help the municipalities to amend them by analyzing, planning and executing them. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u118	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u119	Counselor, I'm telling you about repeated spills for decades, I'm talking about five particularly serious episodes this summer, and you tell me they're conscious and worried. I wonder what they do and tell me they're conscious and worried. Well, that's a good answer. In any case, you have the habit of telling us in this chamber and outside the real milongas, as you just told us, about the spectacular successes of the Union in the fight against river pollution. I'm aware that the number of fishing licences has been halved in a decade since 2009; I don't say so, as La Voz de Galicia says. In May 2019 he said: "Galice lost half of her river fishing licenses in the last decade," by chance matching exactly with the decade in which he ruled Feijóo, the first decade of Mr. Feijóo. And why does this happen? Why is there no fishing licenses and they go down to half? Because there are no trout in the rivers, as any fisherman knows, and the trout like salmon is an ecological indicator of the state of health of a river; and if the river is healthy, there are many trout; if it is contaminated, there are no trout. And the Ten as the Asneiro River, as all the rivers of Galicia have experienced a drastic decline in the fish population in the last decade. To the point I have to tell him that I myself, who was a fisherman, stopped going to the river about when Mr. Feijóo arrived, and I'm not going anymore. I'd like to go to the river fishing but I'm not going to the river because there aren't just trout to fish because of the contamination. [[Laughter]] I left it and I didn't come back because there's more and less fish fauna in the rivers. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And the Galician Union has an obligation to protect Galician river ecosystems, mainly by virtue of three laws: the continental fisheries, the natural heritage and the environmental protection of Galicia. Each one of them is obliged to comply with and enforce a number of rules. [[Murmurs.]] Buy and enforce our laws and stop pollution in the rivers of Galicia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u120	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Close this question, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u121	Thank you. The truth is that, well, having Feijó's fault is also that you're not a traitor is at least funny. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Anyway, I don't think you heard my first intervention, and you come with your script. And the spill control plan because I'll explain it to you later. But it's been and it's still very effective, and I'd like and we'd all like the Hydrographic Confederation, where you are and where you rule, to implement it. I will answer you with concrete measures. What are we going to do to improve? A lot of things, and we've done a lot of things, because the local sanitation plan doesn't give a button and it does; it will understand that it's a job of many people and for a long time. We're finalizing this Local Sanitation Plan and, above all, the projects derived from this Local Sanitation Plan. And the first work we're going to do is this storm tank and the intercepting collectors, because it's a work we consider necessary. At the same time, we will continue to control the spills, of course yes, with that important protocol of the spill control plan, where there are millions of euros that we invest -- as I say -- not just to identify and punish them, but to solve them. And I would very much like the Confederation to do the same and help solve the spills. As I say, Your Honor, we're ambitious; we're going far beyond identifying the spills and looking for their source to eradicate the problem. Also to fix this problem of discharges is the Law of improvement in the management of the integral water cycle. I hope you think about it and you know what this law is for, which is the basis, which I've already explained in my intervention. And I think Mr Bará was made clear because he knows about it. So, Lalin has a problem, he recognizes it, and there are problems, and that's why we've already drafted the Local Sanitation Plan, which sets out the different performances. And -- as I say -- the first one, which we consider as priority and most important, is that storm tank and the improvement of the interceptor collectors, whose project, by the way, is already drafted and monitored. A storm tank with a capacity of 5,000 cubic meters, the expansion of the interceptor collectors in Pontinas. And, of course, it's clear that it's going to be a major improvement in functioning. The forecast? To bid before the end of the year, to adjudicate in the first half of the year 2022 and start the works in the second quarter of the year 2022. We have a million euros at the beginning of 2022 to make possible this timetable that I explain and concrete to them. It's 6.59 million of the multi-annual to do all the works in a concrete way. The Greek Government not only meets its obligations rigorously, diligently, but in this case helps the municipalities to effectively exercise the elimination of these points of dumping. And as I said, we're going far beyond our powers to help the municipalities and I'd like you to ask, if possible, the President of the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u122	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Diego Calvo Pouso and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the assessment by the Government of Greece of the Government's General Budget Bill for 2022 in respect of departures for road and rail infrastructures in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u123	Question by Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u124	Thank you very much, President. To compensate, go ahead and I've been a fisherman since the year 2009 and so we're going to compensate for the numbers. [[Laughter]] Today we ask this question, Counselor, because the general government budgets were presented last October 13. Some budgets that have nothing to do with the shape or the background of the budgets of the Galician Union that we then know. Investment for Galicia amounts to EUR 1,074 million, but much below the last accounts approved by the Government of the People's Party in 2018. The state accounts allocate 8,3 % to Galicia, and Rajoy has reached 13,80 %. The most important thing is that there are ridiculous appropriations for Galicia, when we are receiving more money than ever from Europe. As far as his advice and infrastructures are concerned, there are some examples of how, for example, they are pending to do the last nineteen kilometres of new construction of what is known as Ourense's external rail variant, they are not running the communication by train with Lugo and they continue to be pending the communication with Vigo. Similarly, the accounts do not have sufficient resources for rail access to the port of Coruña. It continues to block Galicia's network of inland connecting highways, which has remained unchanged since 2018. Budgets do not allow such demanding and necessary infrastructure works as Vigo-O Porriño's highway, the Navy's highway, the Ourense-Ponferrada motorway, the new truces of the Lugo-Ourense highway, the new truces of the Pontevedra circus or the Ponteareas variant. One more year, finally, this parliamentary group is concerned, firstly, about the lack of departures or the absence of minimum departures for Galicia and, secondly, about the extension of the deadlines for execution. For example, in the province of Coruña there is a lack of provision for necessary works such as Alfonso Molina, the Passage Bridge, the 18th Avenue or the intermodal station. Alfonso Molina and the enlargement of the Passage bridge are EUR 100,000. We don't see that those million-dollar investments of the Sánchez and the Socialist Party, linked to the recovery funds, arrive in Galicia. Other essential works for the traffic of the province, such as the variant of Orders or the variant of Sigüeiro, do not count with budget; the only one that counts is the Orbital link of Santiago. Essential performances such as railway connection improvements Ferrol-A Coruña are not included. And, as we said, for the train to the outside port of the Coruña, point Langosteira, a match of 3.3 million euros, compared to the 150 million that are needed. The railway modernization of the line The Coruña-Ferrol was more fortunate, as it counts EUR 17,000 for the writing of the bypass project in the coming year, which is always curious. And the EDAR in Santiago counts for the year 2022 with 3.7 million euros of a total of sixty million that are needed to carry out the action. In all light: either missing games or games that are insufficient. Would you like to know what the German Government's assessment of the general government's budgets in which it reaches its competence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u125	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u126	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it's similar to last year's budget assessment of the year 2020 of the Government of Spain, because we defined it as bad, they were bad for Galicia and for the Greeks. And the truth is, budgets for the year 2022 are still bad because they don't meet Galicia's needs. They're still among the lowest in territorialized terms in recent years. And we do not comply because the planned investment in road and rail infrastructure, planned by the Government of Spain for the year 2022, is totally insufficient to meet the needs. And also in the years when there's a lot of reconstruction funds and budgets are growing, but it's true they're insufficient games for Galicia. We expect the amendments that are presented to settle these accounts; some accounts that ignore Galicia's infrastructure needs, mainly in road matters. And the fact is that with the budgets presented by the Government of Spain for the year 2022, it practically assumed zero advances in infrastructures in Galicia; above all, none to Galicia of the interior. So for practical purposes, we have continued without progress in infrastructure in Galicia, state competence, since 2018. And what we don't think of above all is basically on the Santiago-Luco highway. The Santiago-Lugo bus has to wait at least three more years; some works in which started in 2018 these tranches. Which, of course, we can't admit, because it should be executed for Jacob. And they don't collect games that allow significant progress on this highway and others. The fleet of the Navy does not begin, EUR 400,000 for four thirds; the A-76, for the same luck, without future forecasts; the A-56, Lugo-Ourense, as well, EUR 200,000. Of course, they're getting rid of a pen's planning. The classic of 2022's budgets is to put 100,000 euros to say there's something and no multi-year games. And there's nothing for firm reinforcements, which we're concerned about, and we all know the disastrous state of state-owned road companies. Neither is anything new to the connectivity of Galician interior. And it would not be for lack of insistence from the Galician Council, that we even ask them to modify those unilateral criteria of the Next Generation imposed by the Government of Spain to serve the inner Galicia. There's nothing taken from the Vigo-The Porriño bus. And no game to upgrade the AP-53 fees. Of course, for our evaluation, they're bad for the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u127	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u128	Thank you, Counselor. The truth is that this parliamentary group shares the view of the German Government on the general government's budgets. It's a shame the rest of the groups don't do the same thing and defend Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] It is true that all state-dependent infrastructures suffer a significant delay. It's true: there's an example you cited and I've also pointed out, which is the bus between Lugo and Santiago. Any German can approach and knows that in recent years this highway is delayed, stopped, slowed down, and the advance is absolutely none. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, at best, in the budgets, there are some games that either are not spent or are simply for the paper to hold. But it's true that there are many cases where no game even appears. It is also true that if the problem is that games are insufficient, there is an additional problem of management incapacity, because, in fact, often the games that appear at the end, even though they are very scarce, cannot be spent. There's a report from the General State Intervention that just confirmed that the Government of Spain has failed to implement in our community more than 400 million euros. If it's important that budgets are getting smaller and they're destined to Galicia for a smaller amount, much more important is whether these few budgets still cannot be invested by the Government of Spain. It contrasts with the report on the autonomous community, where it says that the consolidated expenditure budget is 102,1 %, and 105,8 % in current expenditure. So these are two ways of understanding, of doing and of managing it. I would also like this second intervention, Counsellor, to talk about railway infrastructure. There's a lot of announcement and there's a lot of propaganda about the arrival of the AVE, but we still don't know when the AVE will actually arrive in Galicia. Because it's not just about the infrastructures, it's about the equipments, as it's said all the time. But to groups that are part of the Government of the State or who support the Government of the State it seems that they don't care and want to continue misleading the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u129	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u130	Thank you, President. Well, we know what infrastructure things are like on the part of the Government of Spain -- a great deal of hurry to impose taxes on the highways and incredible parsimony to advance in the improvement of the infrastructures. We see what the policy of the Government of Spain is like. One more year, watching and radiographing the accounts of the year 2022 of the Government of Spain, of the ministry, because no paper highway will pass, and the budgets for the year 2022 also do not meet the requirements in railway matters for the year 2022. It's true that there's a EUR 250 million match for the Ourense-Monforte-Lugo railway corridor; a game and a corridor that's been behind schedule for three years now. Of course, he excludes several essential performances, which are the variants, and therefore they are essential performances that would allow the record of time in more than 20 minutes. So, what the Government of Spain is doing is saving 500 million euros, which is the same thing that happens to the lumens at high speed because of that cut at the improvement of the Ourense-Monforte-Lugo railway line, which was planned earlier. In railway matters, Ferrol is one of the great harm caused by that Ferrol-A Coruña connection. The EUR 17,000 game, of course, looks like a joke. I hope that they will recapitate and reflect and that this is a monumental mistake, because 17,000 euros I look there and really looks like a joke that budget match. It's also insignificant for Cercedo, 200,000 euros. He gets to put Mariano Rajoy 200,000 euros without multi-year forecast for AVE to Sardinia, and knowing he'd say, but now he says he's delighted, when AVE by Cercedo gets rid of the planning of a pen. We don't know anything about the Mine line either, on that railway line that has shown that there is a need to act on it, that is obsolete and that has a lot of impact. We've seen the game for the southern exit as well as clearly insufficient last year. There is only 465,000 euros for this study, re-studying the study, as if they were bad students. And the railway variant of Ourense also departs only for works in bidding, and the rest we know nothing. From the intermodal stations in Lugo, 5 million euros, because it is very consistent with the record, which is still in urban processing by the municipality. Santiago, EUR 8.6 million is consistent. And I also take advantage of the question that asked me about the arrival of high speed. It is good news that progresses and finishes the works, but we want AVE. We don't want the AVE to stay in Ourense, and just stay at Ourense door; we want it to reach the rest of the cities. As long as we don't have three Aprils running around, the rest of the cities won't have AVE in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u131	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Leticia Gallego Sanromán and four other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the coverage of the social worker's square at the Saladino Cortizo Special Education Centre, in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u132	You have the floor to Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u133	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. I want to greet from here the families of Saladino Cortizo who are following this intervention. The Saladino Cortizo Special Education Centre, in Vigo, transferred to the families at the beginning of this course that the social worker's square will not be covered, once the retirement of the person who had come to occupy this square in recent years. This information was the one that got Junta from Galicia downtown. The management and families are very aware of the need to fill this vacancy in the center, because the joint work of social work, of the ANPA, of management, of the Saladino Cortizo Clause has made it possible for families to meet demands made to different administrations according to their competences. The educational community of this center demands this service, because its work is specific in the field of education and the services of its own for boys and girls of school age, helping them to have a quality training of their children and children, and covering all basic health, education, leisure and complementary training services. The social worker in the center is the gear of this system, which detects the eaves first and anticipates the problems, often avoiding the suffering of the student and allowing orderly exits to the problems. There's a lot of specific procedures for special education students. We must face many stages, at most age, and the procedures that this entails, the inability to defend their rights, at the exit of this and other centers when they are twenty-one years old, in which families are completely destitute. And thanks to the work of the teachers, the management and the social worker, most girls have an alternative to the anticipation and knowledge of the reality of each family. When the boys and girls leave Saladino Cortizo, most of them go to centres arranged by the Council of Galicia, to meet their needs and to continue working on their independence and growth in society. And you know what, Counselor? All these centers have social workers. Why do all these centers have social workers? Because they're fundamental to training and management teams for all these boys and girls. Saladino Cortizo cannot be left without the figure of the social worker, Counselor. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that workers and social workers are a key figure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u134	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I want to start with an answer and a very clear message: the Galician set, like the city of Vigo and, of course, just like this center, counts and will continue to have all the professional resources needed to ensure quality education and, above all, an education that gives equal opportunities and makes integration possible. The truth is, in my particular case, I have been in the political debate for a long time, but sometimes it does not cease to surprise or cease to draw attention to some completely contradictory manipulations or uses that arise in this chamber, and especially in this case to use an action, a purely bureaucratic and administrative decision as a supposed attack, of course, on public education, of course, on families and, of course, on children affected by this centre. This has recently been discussed in Commission 4a, and I think it has been quite clear. But I wanted to say the following: this is a reference center, one of Galicia's most significant and important special education centers. It's a center that has one hundred and eleven students -- unfortunately, it was better not to have this center, but it has one hundred and eleven students -- and it has a staff of forty-three professionals, of which twenty-seven are teachers. The educational needs are many, many. Now there are forty-three professionals who develop a job. And here was a place, indeed, of a social worker, and that has an explanation. This center was from the Savings Box. In 1994 he joined the public network, the network of counsellors. And there was a person who had this professional profile, who submerged himself and kept with this professional profile until he retired on July 31 of this year. In recent years this person was with a partial retirement, he went to the center for a few days and was replaced in other cases by other professionals. The Education Council has no professional profiles of this kind, no social workers or social workers as a general rule. To say that in social policy centres, where there is that working figure, it's a gross manipulation. Of course there are professionals and social workers in the social policy centres, but there are no social workers in the educational centres. And the functions this lady performed -- I'm sure with total involvement -- are performed or must be performed in other centres similar to these by professionals in the guidance departments. I believe that trying to move that image and trying to create a political cause of a purely administrative issue linked to the professional profiles of those who perform a concrete action within each centre, in an educational case and in another case of a job perspective or a social policy perspective, simply seems to me to be a gross manipulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u136	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u137	Thank you, President. Bride manipulation, it's incredible, Counselor, it's incredible! This parliamentary group only wants to help the families of Saladino Cortizo who are desperate. And you tell the RPT and talk about the RPT, because look: these families and the management don't understand how the Education Council tells them on July 29 that this square will not be covered, and on August 10 the Resolution of July 31, 2021 is published in the DOG, so the employment relationship of the Council for Culture, Education and University, where the social worker's square appears. Who's manipulating, Counselor? And tell the families that are here today that we are manipulating. [[Applause]] You're manipulating yourself. And that you play with these families is incredible. You know what the easiest thing we can do? The families are here, meet with them and say again what you just said here. And explain it well, because I really don't understand why this social worker's square isn't covered. Indeed, it is a very large center, with one hundred eleven students from sixteen different municipalities throughout Pontevedra province. That's what happens, because you don't know why you're not betting on quality in teaching, and specifically on this special teaching of Saladino Cortizo. I don't know why? They're covering the social worker's square once. The social worker at this center is essential as we just said, it's essential for the student, it's essential for the teacher, but above all, it's essential for the parents and mothers of this center. Stop manipulating yourself. It's really amazing that you're doing this. And indeed, in Commission 4 where they voted against, the People's Party voted against. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u138	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Close this question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u139	Madam President, do you mean, what do you mean? What do you mean, do you mean, because this educational centre is located in a region, in a particular area of Galicia, there is a different vision or a different treatment? You mean that? He just said it clearly. And you're talking about not manipulating, please! The situation is very clear: in these educational centers, in our educational centers, the figure of the social worker is not recognized. There are professionals in the orientation world; there are different profiles, but from the scope of the guidance department that do these functions. Another thing that's different is in the social policy centers. And don't try to move totally different situations here. In this center, and given the rigor, I will literally read what the resolution says, and you will judge. The August 10 AUG published the Resolution of June 30, 2021 ordering the publication of the Agreement of the Council of Galicia of July 29th, 2021 and the employment relationship of the Council of Culture, Education and University. This publication simply collects the changes that have been negotiated in the General Public Employees Bureau, which only affect the central services of the board. No changes have been negotiated regarding the office staff. I insist that the Education Council does not have in its RPT, except this case, which was a subrogation case and that, once it is finished, another professional profile is entered. This won't go against it, it won't in any case prejudice the attention students will have in this center. One hundred eleven students and forty-three professionals. I don't understand that fixation. That work that certainly did with total brightness and total involvement is going to be carried out by the department of guidance, because this professional figure is not in the RPT of Culture or Education. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that you can't say more clearly. And from here you generate a general cause and even implies that a different treatment is done because you're in a specific county. That, Your Honor, is an absolute barbarity. It's an absolute barbarity that insinuation at parliamentary headquarters. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, and for you to stay calm, I'll tell you one thing. [[Murmurs.]] This year, in the city you are considering, double the number of care units preferred for students with special educational needs and increased the number of caregivers and professionals, aimed at promoting integration and enabling the study of children with difficulties. And, really, that you come here to transfer a purely administrative matter, purely labor, posed as an attack...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u141	...from Galician Union to special education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u142	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u143	...it's really sad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u144	Time's up. Thank you. Question by Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonso and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the situation of the Alu Iberian factory in Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u145	Question by Ramón Fernández Alfonso of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u146	Good morning. For almost three years now, the particular route of the Alcoa factory's staff has begun, today, Alu Iberian. Three years struggling to preserve an industrial activity, the production of aluminum, which is strategic for the Spanish state, but especially strategic for Galicia. It is worth stressing this importance, this strategic character of the aluminium industry, because these factories, together with Avilés, in Asturias, produced between 80 % and 90 % of the aluminium consumed by the Spanish State, and now at the end of these factories it is necessary to import. Now, both industry and construction, which are increasingly demanding more aluminum for their activities, depend on international markets and imports, on the serious problems that this is causing today. A strategic sector, above all, in Galicia, for two reasons: because here is one of the factories, the one of the Coruña, which has become directly occupying 600 people between major and auxiliary, and because here, in Galicia, there are also powerful industrial groups in the aluminium sector, such as Cortizo or Extrugasa, demanding the product they made in the Coruña. Three years has been the staff of the Coruña factory of permanent mobilization, held by different companies, by two different state governments, by the Union and even by the police. Practically abandoned, condemned to witness the criminal dismantling of the factory, while the governments, who should be guaranteed employment and industrial activity, look elsewhere and disengage themselves altogether. Because the two governments, the state and the Greek -- yours, Mr. Vice-President -- have gone through this whole process. Well, now it's time to execute that endorsement and respond to the commitments. On October 22, the current judicial administrator addressed the corporate committee to inform them of his intention to conduct an ERTE for two main reasons: the impossibility of giving them effective occupation and the impossibility of paying the payrolls. In fact, they already owe them more than a monthly salary. The same reasons led this court administrator to apply for accreditor's pre-competition in the Court of Commerce of the Crown. We are unaware of the attitude that will be taken before these actions the social administrators displaced, the representatives of the Risk Group. But with due caution and assuming that the usual deadlines can be extended because of this unusual situation, the fact is that the factory is on its way to liquidation. Mr. Vice-President, a Greek government that responds to that confidence of the electorate that so much they assume, a responsible Greek government, a Greek government concerned about the country's industrial production, concerned about employment, in this context of crisis, concerned that the Coruña region is not reduced to a monoculture of Indidex, will now be busy, preparing an alternative to prevent the closure of the factory and a new social disaster. I suppose you, being a government that assumes management, will already be designing an industrial plan for the Coruña factory. Mr. Vice-President, please give us the details of that industrial plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u148	...to save activity and employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u149	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Mr. Fernández Alfonso speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mr. Fernández Alfonso speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is over, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Applause]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, my first words, logically, are, this morning, for the workers of Alu Iberian, to show them once again solidarity for an unfair situation that they are going through, and we really cannot share the attitude they are having, in this case, both the company and the Government of Spain. So we're going to stick with them, like we've been working on that industrial solution for three years, so they can maintain primary aluminium production and keep their jobs. I, once again, regret the belligerent attitude of the Galician Nationalist Block. I regret the lack of respect for the Galician Nationalist Block towards Galician Union. Mr. Fernández, we didn't beat anyone up. We may be either in favour or against it, but we can never lock it up. [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, Mr. Fernández, I remind you that, in fact, nearly three years ago, we started working together with the workers of Alcoa Coruña -- Alu Iberica right now -- to find a solution. And this government, the Galician Union, has declared the primary aluminium sector as a strategic sector, which has neither been done nor done either by the Government of Spain. And I remind you that we, from the very first moment on, have been with the workers, but that doesn't mean that we agree with the government's decision. In no case did the Galician Union evaluate that agreement. I refer to the statements of August 1, 2019 made by myself: "The Economic Counsellor Francisco Count did not show himself so euphoric that he warned that the Alcoa plant conflict is going to close in false, since the investor's solution is partial and has a two-year expiration date." Mr. Fernández, if the Government does not solve the competitive electric price so that Alu Iberian can compete on equal terms with other primary aluminium producers, unfortunately, we will be closer to closure than an industrial solution. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u151	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Fernández Alfonso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u152	Yes. Thank you. Look, it won't be the BNG who denies the State Government's responsibilities in this matter. But, Mr Vice-President, the Government of the State has to give explanations in the Congress of Deputies, in the German Parliament who has to give explanations is the German Government; the Government of Faezóo and, in particular, you. [[Applause]] Explain which solution, which plan has the Galician Board to save the aluminium factory in the Coruña. That we have to involve the Government of the State, that the price of electricity is fundamental, yes, of course. But, Vice-President, do you have skills in the industrial field?, do you have capacity to act?, do you have responsibilities? Yes, yes and yes, of course, because it competes to give you nearly two million euros in subsidies they did. When Fexóo constituted the current government -- his last government -- he removed the label industry from his department. Casualty? No, no, no, no. Galicia lost 14% of the industrial production rate between 2010 and 2019 -- data before the pandemic -- five times more than the Spanish state. You are directly responsible for the brutal deindustrialization process in our country. The case of Alcoa Coruña is a clear example. If you have an alternative project for Galicia that guarantees the right to work in the country, that gave them confidence and that they govern, it's time to rectify it because it doesn't work. Rectify, bet by industry and put in place a plan to save the Alcoa Coruña factory, today Alu Iberian. Take advantage of the budget approval procedure. Since the BNG we will present an amendment to take advantage of this procedure and address an integral solution for the factory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u153	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. Close the question by the second vice president and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, I fully understand that you confuse the situation in this Parliament with the situation in the Congress of Deputies by the Galician Nationalist Block. I understand perfectly well that you are ashamed of the covenant you have signed with the Government, with your partner. It is a pact that is clearly generating the deindustrialization that is taking place by the Government of Spain, endorsed by the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] But, Mr. Fernández, don't be mistaken. The Government of Spain clearly has to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks, and it has to come here to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks why their industrial policy is generating unemployment. Because the situation of Alu Iberica, Mr. Fernández, is not an industrial policy issue. The situation in Alu Ibérica is a problem of energy policy, where the Government has the ability to set a competitive electric price to produce primary aluminium. It was the commitment of the Government of Spain in January 2019, and we are in October of the year 2021 and, unfortunately, the Government continues to fail to its commitment, continuing to fail the workers of Alu Iberica, following them failing all the workers of the electrointensive companies. And, unfortunately, we have a government that has, at this moment, the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao, the workers of Alu Iberiana, the workers of Ence for an ideological energy policy that you support. Let's get you out of here. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So, Mr. Fernández, while in Spain the electrointensive company Alu Ibérica Coruña has to pay 143 % more than in France or 46 % more than in Germany, the future of the workers of Alu Ibérica will have no chance of producing primary aluminium. Don't confuse yourself. That's the goal of the Galician Union. If you want to talk about an industrial plan, what industrial plan, Mr. Fernández? We defend the production of primary aluminium in Alu Ibérica Coruña. It was the commitment to the Government of Spain signed in January 2019 and that's what we're going to keep, and what we're going to continue demanding the Government that you support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u155	Thank you, Vice President. Q. Paulo Rios Santôme and Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to reactivate the therapies intended for children with functional diversity of the centre San Rafael de Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u156	Question by Mr. Paulo Rios Santôme, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning, Counselor. Today we bring an urgent question to this plenary, just as urgent as it is to solve the situation that many children live in the Morrazo district. Children and children with functional diversity who saw how their rights and needs were suspended at the beginning of the alarm state, it's over a year old, and who haven't recovered as a whole. We're talking about children who need specialized and continuous care, which is not being given by the Public Service in this case of Sergas. As you know, the quality of life of children and children with functional diversity is about having a quality of public care and care; because that's the difference between being able to have a better life or staying on the road. From the beginning of the alarm state, early on, the therapies for children and children who enjoyed this service were cancelled in the centre of San Rafael de Vigo. For many months, they looked completely helpless and helpless because both the center and Sergas were unable to agree to approve a protocol to renew the therapies. In front of the family complaints and the demand for an answer, from the center it was said that Sergas was not making available a protocol to resume therapies; while from Sergas -- as always, on the other hand -- it was said that there was no problem, which was a matter of a short time before those therapies were re-enacted. Although they were already insufficient before, early-care therapies play a key role in the development of children with functional diversity. Today we are witnessing a partial reactivation of these therapies in the centre of San Rafael de Vigo, an insatiable partial reactivation for families that leaves many children affected. After so many months of suspension of these therapies, many families had to deal with different therapies with many difficulties, having to resort to private therapies, with all that it means. It cannot be that the quality of life of these children depends on the economic capacity of their families. You cannot allow the most vulnerable to remain in the way. The life of these children cannot be allowed to be measured in the money they can pay. Your job is that this doesn't happen, Counselor, and once again fails. They return the therapies to their children as a whole and start working on their expansion and improvement. It can't be that nowadays there are children with functional diversity, that their optional or optional ones tell them they need these therapies and, besides, urgently, and that since Sergas they're being denied and put them on a waiting list, without knowing the criteria they obey that list, or when they're going to be able to access those therapies. That the life of these children and families does not depend on money, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u158	Thank you, Mr. Rios Santomé. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u159	Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Rios, the Health Council has timely care resources in all health areas. As you know, work in this field, within public services, has three pillars: education, social and health care. In education, resources focus on the important work of educational guidance teams. In the area of social policy, Junta has made an important effort with the expansion of the Glaga Network of Temperá Care, for which an annual grant line is convened for the creation and maintenance of care units will, in this case, be allocated by the municipalities. This autonomous network today has 40 centers for all of Galicia. Even so, the Galician board, through the Council of Social Policy, has financial assistance that is given directly to the families of children and children who require personalized attention, to meet the costs of the service of a private professional of their choice, in case they require it. In the healthcare field as I said, in all health areas, we have hospital units of early care, which with professionals such as rehabilitation doctors, psychologists, physiotherapists, speech therapists or social workers, treat children and children, once derived from their pediatrician, to be evaluated or treated in these units. In order to be able to provide more resources for this task, part of the provision of early care services will be carried out through a contract, which allows to complete the activity carried out, in this case in Álvaro Cunqueiro, in which more than 80 percent of patients are treated. In the last bid, a series of improvements have been incorporated that ensure better attention and more coordination, such as using the corporate citation system for these patients or that the optionals use Sergas's electronic clinical history to report all the information and Rehabilitation Service, in this case of the Chuvi, can follow up. Even so, until the new bid, the types of completed therapies were only two: simple or combined, receiving all children the same number of sessions, without taking into account the complexity of each case. For this reason, on the part of the rehabilitation service on which it depends, the hospital unit, various treatment protocols and the appropriate intensity of each case, including it in the specification of technical prescriptions governing the contract. All these improvements have been incorporated since the end of 2020, the date on which this new contract is valid as I said. Unfortunately, the pandemic has caused many drawbacks to the attention of certain pathologies, such as having to postpone therapies, especially in the months of confinement. But as you know, from the Health Council we have made an important effort to recover in all health areas the activity lost by the pandemic. Many of the users of the units have pathologies that make them more vulnerable to cowardice, so medical examinations were needed, in this case, by professionals. So they reviewed the stories and adapted to the new prescriptions and protocols, setting the priority of the children. It is striking that the consequences of the health crisis involved in the system are met, but yet every effort was made to meet with greater quality all the children and children who needed an early-care appointment and, of course, those of the Morrazo district.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u160	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, today we see a new chapter of this eternal struggle that exists in this Chamber between what the Galician Union says and reality. Once again, it's completely obvious any kind of reality and any kind of question going on in the territory, and we keep press notes, headlines, data on the papers, which then do not actually check, Counsellor. Today there are children and children who are being denied attention to the therapies they need, with more than sixty-five percent of recognised disabilities, with optional and optional saying they have to continue the therapies and urgently, and they're sending them to a waiting list that they don't know when they're going to get out of it and they're going to be able to access those therapies, or not, who's on that waiting list!, under what criteria! That's what's happening. That is the reality and that is part of this eternal struggle that exists in this parliament and in all plenary meetings and in all committees. That's what's happening. And what I'm asking is, why is Sergas agreeing that there are children and children with a fundamental need, that not having these therapies means going back, that not having these therapies means making their quality of life worse not only immediately, but in the future, and that many families who have no real resources to do so, have to do more than they can, often, to be able to give their children and their children the opportunity to have those therapies that help them develop better in life, that they have less pain, that they can have a better ability in speech, that they can have a better ability in their mobility, that they can lead to the most normal and successful life possible? That's what's happening today, Counselor: either clearly that reality, or the protocols that the Galician Union, that Sergas, has instituted at this last stage for this end, are not working, are wrong or are not based on reality. So, Counselor, from this reality, what will Sergas do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u163	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Rivers, you're right. This is a permanent, continuous debate between what you say and what you don't want to hear. From the start of the contract until 30 September this year, a total of 535 children were settled in San Rafael. I'm going to say it again if you didn't understand me: 535 children attended in San Rafael this year, of whom 95% are now still on treatment in this center, with an average of 1.5 therapies per child and a sixty percent is children under six years of age. If you want me to give it to you in writing, I'll make you a bureaufax... I don't know how I can tell you more clearly. The total number of therapies performed under this contract is performed according to the prescriptions of the optionals in type and intensity, while in the clinical history as previously stated, the daily result, which allows to make assessments and adjustments if necessary. In addition, in order to meet all the demands of the Vigo area, including of course The Morrazo, was put into operation before the summer, specifically in the mid-July, at the Integral Health Center Taboada Leal, a new team of reinforcements formed by an occupational therapist and a logo, in addition to a physiotherapist, of what the center already counted, which mainly serves combined therapies, of which we currently have only one week of delay with two patients waiting. In addition, at Álvaro Cunqueiro we have a reinforcement logo, since February of this year, which serves complex therapies. Thus, the area of Vigo has gone from having two assistive devices: the one of Taboada Leal and the one of the reinforced Cunqueiro Alvaro, which joins the resources provided through the recruitment of the speech therapy services, early care and child rehabilitation provided at the Home and Clinic San Rafael, because they are, by course, the adjudicators of this contract. In short, the derivation system is carried out with strict compliance with priority criteria, both clinical and child improvement and autonomy, with maximum transparency and equity, so that all children have guaranteed accessibility to the therapies they need. And even we have increased as I have just said significantly the resources to be able to meet all the demand, thus ensuring assistance for all families who require it; and that all children and children can receive the therapies most suitable for them, not only those of Morrazo, but all of them as they said in the Vigo area. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u164	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Maria Elena Candia López and six other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the impact of the strategy of economic, territorial and tourist dynamization of Galician wine regions on each of the axes on which it operates
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u165	Question by Mrs Raquel Arias Rodríguez of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u166	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. These days the harvest is closing in Galicia. A harvest that everyone agrees to stress is historic, above all, by the number of kilograms collected, more than seventy-three million in all denominations, and 60% of them in the Low Ries only, and also with exceptional quality. They're good news for a sector that's strategic in Galicia; strategic about economic data, but also about its social, cultural and environmental dimension. In addition, it is one of the most internationalized and dynamic sectors of the entire agricultural economy of our land. A sector that always has as its ally the Conseilerie du Medio Rural et la Junta de Galicia, in general. A sector around which and its designations of origin and protected geographical indications are concentrated more than 10,000 wine growers, around 500 wine cellars and which mobilise a total of 230 million euros. It should also be noted in this sector that the prices of wines with designation of origin of Galicia have a cost of 60 percent higher than the selling price to the public of the average wine that has the designation of origin of the set of Spain. That's good news. As it is also good news that in recent times twenty percent sales have increased on the linears, in a very special way, above all, linked to the work that the Rural Middle Council has done during the pandemic, so that the wines of our designations of origin could be present to a greater extent in those linears. But both the sector and the political group I represent, as well as the Galician Union, are convinced that you haven't touched a roof, that there's still a lot of room for manoeuvre, and there's still a lot to do in this sector. In this sense, too, the strategy of economic, territorial and tourist dynamisation of the wine-growing districts of Galicia is blessed. A strategy that was presented at the end of June, which aims to consolidate wine-growing in national and international markets, consolidate our quality wines in these markets, strengthen the brand image linked to the areas where they occur and also achieve added value through wine-growing. Finally, good news for a sector in which it will be influenced by several measures, measures in which we would like you to step into a little bit more and explain what they consist of, how they will affect and how they will develop. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u167	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. In fact, an extraordinary harvest in kilos and I would add in quality. And besides, as always, based on the native varieties of Welsh, that place the product, as is the wine of Greek, anywhere in the world. You said so, Your Honor, we are already talking about nearly twenty-two percent of production that is being marketed in more than seventy countries around the world. We at the Rural Council, we tried to make the planning as appropriate as possible. We start with a very important sector of production, such as milk, and then we address the development of strategy. I would like to highlight your name as you well said: Strategy of economic, territorial and tourist dynamization of the wineries in Galicia. This isn't about wine; it's about talking about a product that is a key element to dynamizing all these regions, and that we that are from some wine region know it well. As we did in milk, it was a strategy that counted on intense participatory work. All agents of the value chain: regulators, winemakers, wine growers, the Greek universities, relevant agents of the territory and also the tourist sector; but it is that, in addition, it involved three advisories: the first Vice-Presidentship with Tourism, the second Vice-Presidentship with the Igape and the Rural Environment with the Galician Food Quality Agency. We're not going to talk here about consolidating what we already have, which is a very powerful sector, but we want the added value of the wine to reach all the links of the value chain in the wineries. The strategy has, deepening it, seven fundamental axes. Five of them are direct competition from the Rural Council, and the others respond or correspond to the other councils. Now I'm going to talk about two of them: strategic cooperation and coordination, as well as viticulture and grape production. I'll leave the rest to my replica. As far as cooperation is concerned, we are promoting precisely that cooperation and collaboration between the different wine regions with the flag of Galician wines and all the designations of origin and geographical indications protected, especially in the face of the challenges of internationalization. And as far as the axis of production is concerned, I would like to highlight from then on two specific programs. The first, a specific land mobility program, in which we are counting on that specific program with the instruments of the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act and asking the denominations of origin to locate the best areas to make those new plantations that are so necessary. I have to say that among the five denominations of origin, we were required ten thousand hectares of polygons, in this case, for vineyard. And the second thing I would like to point out, of course, is a plan to promote generational relief and the incorporation of new wine growers. There is no future in the wine sector if we can't achieve that rebound that is precisely linked to the agroforestry polygons and to the priority criteria in these.... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u169	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u170	Counsellor, coming from a wine region par excellence as is the Sacred Ribeira, in which we are working everywhere to improve and value our products of excellent quality, but also by completing with all that brings our land around the enoturism and having the very view placed on the generational relief, which is now one of the problems we have to work on, you have to understand that to me this strategy is clearly positive. But even if I pull that subjectivity out and focus only on objective criteria, I also have to say that in my group, it seems to us that we are talking about a strategy with a very high rating and a lot of future, because from an economic point of view it is. It's about still improving the prices we have, which as I said are about 60 percent above the average of the other denominations of origin in Spain. We will continue to work at these selling prices to the public to improve, therefore, the productivity of wine growers, but also in the creation of indirect jobs in the areas where they occur, having to deal primarily with enoturism and, like not? you said, to fix population in the rural environment. This is something the whole Galician Union is working on and, especially, since the Middle Rural Council. There is something I would also like to point out: the fact that all the actors who are going to have to intervene in the implementation of this strategy have worked from the very first moment on, such as the sector itself, universities, three councils and the Juana de Vega Foundation, with extensive experience on these issues. I also want to highlight here the fact that, once again, we have to think about Galicia's Agricultural Land Recovery Act every time we want to talk about the future agrarian on our land. So, I want to congratulate you, while I ask you to clarify, please, what are the other points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u172	...where this strategy is going to focus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u173	Thank you. Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u174	Yes, thank you very much. Of course, Your Honor, the Sacred Ribeira is an extraordinary wine region, such as Monterrey, Valdeorras, Ribeiro and the Lower Ries, in addition to protected geographical indications. I believe and I tell you with total conviction that the Greek wines are and have extraordinary potential in any part of the world, and we will still be able to grow much more with this strategy and develop our wine regions based on a fundamental principle: that the added value of wine has to reach all the links of the value chain, from the producer to the wineries and, of course, also to the marketing phase. He spoke before seven links and seven structural axes. To complete, in the next axis, which is industry, we have to work on an important issue, which is precisely the size of our farms, in this case, of our wineries, in order to increase that size. We here want to highlight the effort we made, both in 2020 and in 2021, to ensure that all grapes would be collected in our designations of origin at market prices, through the creation of a financial instrument. We are the second autonomous community that activated the financial instrument within the framework of the EAFRD as I say to make a financial instrument that was the "purchasing harvest", which allowed the wineries to buy and put that requirement, for the first time, in order the grapes at market price. The next axis we're looking at is marketing. Clearly, it is a matter that not only deals with us but also concerns us, even though we are aware of the work that our wineries are developing. You said that before, in internationalization I also transferred it, we're going to watch for sure when this year's data, which are not yet public, is given to extraordinary growth at the international level. But we also defend during the pandemic the good marketing of our products, and there we must probably also influence through a joint promotion, through the idea of Galicia Quality in the wines as well. As far as the organization of designations of origin is concerned, we are very clear that each denomination of origin has its own characteristics, but we have to work together in support of Galician wines. And I don't want to finish my speech without talking about something that doesn't matter to me, but it has to do with it too, as is the axis of tourism, especially of enoturism. It must be remembered that many of the denominations are located in areas that will be highly favored by the entry of the AVE, when appropriate. We have also completed the improvement -- within the axes -- of the governance of the comarcas, promoting the cooperation and coordination of the agents of the territory. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: cooperation, production, industry, marketing, organization, tourism and governance, planning and bet, without any doubt, for our rural. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-27-DSPG054.u175	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Nothing else. Good afternoon.
