ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u1	Good morning to all and to all, and also to the people who follow this act through the media of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation and the website of the Galician Parliament. We begin the solemn and commemorative session on the 40th anniversary of the Galician Parliament. Commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the Galician Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u2	As today, in 1981, they met for the first time in the Xelmírez palace, a loaned seat — such was the precariousness with which our self-government was based — the Members elected in the first elections in the history of the Galician Parliament. Everything was about to be done and almost nothing was taken for granted. The independent convictions of those who met there contrasted with the warm reception of the process in the streets and villages, where, no doubt, democracy, rights and freedoms were called for. Let's now go to the palace of Xelmírez, first headquarters, where Xabier Díaz plays the Allalah piece of Mujía.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u3	Thank you very much for this interpretation, always evocative, and very especially for the marine Galician. Thank you very much, too, to the Archbishop of Santiago de Compostela for the transfer of space where he had his first seat in the Parliament of Galicia. The Galician Parliament, the first institution of the Autonomous Community, is at the heart of our autonomy. It is a meeting place where, since the legitimate discrepancy, Members and Members work in the pursuit of the common good. I now give the floor to Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u4	Mr President of Parliament, Mr President of the Union, ladies and gentlemen, authorities, President Laxe, friends and friends, Galicia is our people, Galicia is our culture, it is our speech, our commitment, Galicia is our passion. We believe in Galicia, and the parliamentarians and parliamentarians of the Galician Parliament work for the good, for the needs and for the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. Forty years of Parliament represent forty years of democracy and self-government in Galicia, forty years of prosperity and opportunity, in which Parliament is a fundamental element that is irreplaceable, because without parliament there is no democracy and without Parliament in Galicia there is neither self-government nor autonomy. That's why we have to highlight the importance of politics in complex times, the importance of politics to respond to the needs and demands of a people who have difficulties and those of so many people who may suffer inequality — especially in times of cowardice, so I also want to have a word of support, encouragement, accompaniment, to those Greeks and Greeks who are suffering from the pandemic and, especially, to those who are hospitalized and cannot be in their homes. Parliament is the seat of the word, of freedom, of agreement, of dialogue, and also of dialectical confrontation. There is a need for a strong Parliament to have a strong Galicia, for a living Parliament to have a live Galicia, for a democratic, dynamic, participatory Parliament to also give the future and possibilities to the areas which have so many Galicians and gales of participation and freedom. And that's why we defend politics as a public service, politics to serve Galicia from the legislative power that gives rules, which gives rules, from the legislative power that decides and determines the possibilities of executive power, from the legislative power that becomes also the seat of pluralism of opinions, of the freedoms of the Greeks and the Greeks, and in which we must continue to improve. Since in British tradition the British Parliament has assumed control of the monarch's absolutist power, parliaments have involved an element of counter-power, a brake on any excess of dominant power. And that's also democracy: plurality, respect for the most legitimate majority to govern and respect for minorities who want to move other approaches. And talking about the Galician Parliament is talking about the Statute, because, as Ramón Piñeiro pointed out, autonomy is not the confirmation of the past, it is the opening of a new path to the future. And after the year 1936 the citizenship of Galicia had validated a status of autonomy in the Second Republic, which could not be brought forward by the military uprising, it had to wait many decades, four decades, so that, after the dictatorship, after the long night of stone to which Celso Emilio referred, with the transition, with democracy, with the Constitution, the state of autonomy had a space. Because political decentralization makes it possible to bring public policies to the needs of citizenship, it allows to generate regional public goods that respond to the diverse demands of a plural Spain and also to meet the needs of dignity and self-government of the Greek people. The political and social agreement generated in Galicia for autonomy through the Hostal Pacts implied that our community was not within the second order and that we could work for a leading autonomy, reference in competences and so many issues. And, as Ceferino Díaz concluded, the 81 Statute constitutes an irrefutable proof that from Galicia we can direct our own history. The 81 Statute has brought about this Galician Parliament, which has led to the best forty years of self-government and democracy in the history of the country. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group values the work done by all Members and Members during so many legislations. In memory also for so many socialists who from this House worked for the good of Galicia, I want to remind fellows that from this bench, like Ramon Piñeiro, like Miguel Barros or like Ceferino Díaz, they worked for socialism and Greekism, giving a voice to a part of the Greek citizenship that identifies themselves with these ideas. And, no doubt, my memories also go to two parliamentarians who presided over the Government of Galicia, the comrades and friends of Tourin and Laxe, who gave the best of themselves to make Galicia the best possible. I also point out that the first President of the Galician Parliament, Dolores Villarino, has worked from the parliamentary group and as he has done alongside so many positions. And I also do so by emphasizing the presidency of the Union that, from other political positions, from the People's Party and from the positions of the People's Alliance, ruled Galicia with legitimacy and working as they thought best by Galicia and the Greeks: President Albor, President Fraga and President Alberto Núñez Feijóo. I want to point out that, far from self-comprehensiveness, we have to face the challenges of the future, that we cannot fall into conformityism, that we need courage to deal with people's concerns, that we can't be seeing ourselves in the mirror and saying that everything is going well, but that we always have to have the will to do things in the best way possible. Because we want a better Galicia, and for a better Galicia, we always need a better Parliament, a better autonomy and a better public service vocation. Because the policy we are talking about is the policy that determines the public health of the Greeks and the Greeks, the possibilities of public education for so many Greeks and the Greeks, social policies, industry and employment policies and the modernization of the country. And then each one, from his perspective, has to put -- and put -- the best of us to work for the Greeks and the Greeks. We defend democratic values, we defend that there are different positions and different ideas, but that we all work together for the Greeks and for the Greeks. We put ourselves on duty of self-existence and, in plural Spain, in federal Spain, in constitutional Spain, which the Parliament of Galicia works for the future. We also believe that, as the moments of the most difficult cowardly crisis pass, it will be time to have that courage to face the challenge of updating the Statute of Autonomy, which is the fundamental element on which this Parliament of Galicia is based, with a letter of citizenship in which this Parliament can work to shield and give rights to women, to those who have the most difficulties, social rights, rights of advancement, to put the Statute of autonomy of the 20th century at the height of the 21st century. That reform is something that is pending, and it will have to be addressed sooner or later, because the struggle for the Statute of Self-Government was the struggle for the self-government of Galicia that gave our Parliament a chance. It was a historic, patriotic struggle, a struggle that united the Greeks in 1936, the ones in 1981, who in 2007, led by Emilio Pérez Touriño, tried to bring our fundamental standard to greater levels of self-government and national dignity, and also the Greeks and Greeks in the year 2021 that we want to face the challenges of the future. To the citizens who follow us from the public now I want to move them that, of course, we will continue to work for the Greeks and the Greeks. Because the success of this Parliament, the success of the Government of Galicia and its President, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, also depends on the well-being of many Greeks and Greeks. And for that, with all the constructive will, with differences but with loyalty, with the tender hand, it is up to us to value the work done for forty years by this Galician Parliament, but also to take on the challenges of improving, to recognize the mistakes that we can all have — starting with ourselves — and to work always for the future of a better Galicia. A lot of Parliament and more Parliament will be synonymous with more democracy and better Galicia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. It's now up to the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u6	Thank you very much. Good day to all and all. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen who follow us through the public media, if we had a time machine and we could travel 40 years ago, to this Xelmírez palace, and we spoke to Members and Ladies and gentlemen of 1981 about mobile phones, the Internet, Instagram, Facebook, tweets, if we told them that the Spanish State entered NATO with the hand of Felipe González, who no longer exists the USSR, that China threatens the hegemony of the United States, if we told them that women all over the world are leading large mobilizations around the planet by equality, that there is a climate emergency or that a virus is going to put against the strings to humanity, I'm sure that in the best case they would think it would be science fiction. But it's reality, because it's obvious that the 2021 world and Galicia is very, very, very different from the one in 1981. But there's something that hasn't changed: we're a nation with language and culture of our own, with idiosyncrasy that makes us different and unique, no better or worse, just yellow and yellow, with national consciousness and with pride of our own. And from that pride of country, I want to recognize all the people who fought for Galicia, beginning with the generation of Castile and Bovada, of Mary Miramontes and Virginia Pereira, who defended the Statute of the 36 that consolidated us as a historical nation; following the women and men who in the Transition defended a democratic break-up, a confederal and republican alternative, and those who mobilized against the " Statuto da adrage"; a recognition that I also want to make an extension to all the people who have made important contributions in this House over these forty years, and who want to symbolize in three years: the Law of linguistic normalization, the Law against gender violence or the Peace Andrade Law. Before, like now, we don't need to match 100 percent to recognize that, in the unfinished task of a Galician wife of hers, there are many struggles and many people whose footprint reaches the present. For that reason, the date of the 40th anniversary of Parliament cannot be mere liturgy or empty grandloquency of content. For all those who have preceded us, and, above all, for the Greeks and for the Greeks today, we have an obligation from here to speak of their present and their future, of the problems that take away their sleep, which distress them, but also, of course, of how the dreams of the Greeks and the Greeks come true. Because it is the Greeks and the Greeks who give meaning to Parliament, and we have to work with all humility every day to stand up to it. That's why this House has to be the center of political life. And they are wrong those who try to numb Parliament, those who try to turn it into an empty shell into the basis of propaganda, cristing or distorting the debate. They are strategies that weaken democracy, very dangerous always, but much more at a time when winds of intolerance, noise and fury blow. Since the BNG we will continue our efforts to make Parliament a place of debate, of dialogue, of important agreements for the country and of a box of resonance of the real problems of the Greeks and the Greeks; problems such as emigration of new people, social inequalities, gender inequalities, low pensions, the demographic crisis, the historical deficit that we continue to have in infrastructures or the decline of our common language, the Greek, which is going through a winter in which a sad paradox arises: institutions that were born to defend it fulfil just the opposite function. We're celebrating 40 years and there are those who believe that the current autonomic framework is idyllic, but the data says something else. Galicia in 1980 accounted for 6.2% of the state's gross domestic product, today 5.2%; we represented 7.4% of the population, today 5.8% and going down. We have to ask ourselves why we lose economic, labor and demographic weight when we live in a rich, talented and capable country. Something obviously fails, and it must be said with all roundness: doesn't fail Galician or Galician or Welsh. Forty years later we are far away from the Sovereign Gaulza who dreamed of the generation of Castile. And I want to draw attention to one fact: we haven't even met the Statute, and we've been on dry land transfers for years. No Galeguist of heart would consent to this aggravation. We have to move from statements to action, because centralism is moving forward. In these years, he has stripped off our scarce self-government and has concentrated ever more investments, more population and more wealth in Madrid. That's why we understand, from the BNG, that it's important to have more political power in Galicia, that we meet the Statute and move towards a new status of nation that recognizes us as what we are and that it gives us more tools to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, because that's in practice sovereignty, real self-government. And at this point it is appropriate to ask ourselves a question: do we have to conform to a narrow suit made forty years ago or should we aspire to more? Because, let's say, 1,700,000 Greeks and Greeks today — among whom I find myself — we couldn't decide anything about this statute at all, simply because we weren't old enough to vote or because many and many didn't even be born. And the country and the world have changed a lot, so we need new tools to give solutions to Galicia in the 21st century, to get a fair and cheerful exit to this crisis that concerns us. Everything is moving, and being petrified by immobilism would be to retreat. We say this with full confidence in the country, because we believe that we have everything to gain, precisely, from confidence in ourselves. I will never get tired of saying it: we are a great country and we have to think about Galicia in great terms, make reality a Galicia that produces from here to the world, which is leading and international referee in science, in knowledge, innovative, feminist, with opportunities for new people, taking care of the environment, seeing that Portugal is a strategic space for our development and linking us with the world from the pride of our language and our culture, which are Welsh and universal. We never forget, when we cross Parliament's door, that we're here to work for Galicia, for the Greeks and for the Greeks, and to stand up to them. And we work with humility but with ambition, because, as Castelao said, true heroism is to turn dreams into reality and ideas into facts. We're going to keep dreaming because no one can steal our right to dream, but, above all, we're going to keep working to make possible that unlimited Galicia, that large Galician one. Thank you very much. And live Galliza!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga, spoke to the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, authorities, citizens of Galicia who listen to us on this beautiful Sunday of Christmas by the Greek media, as today, on December 19, 1981, was the first democratic parliament in Galicia's history; a surely historic date, because it was not timeless. The constitution for the first time in our history of a democratic parliament invested in political and legislative autonomy culminated in a long and difficult historical process that coincided with the development and construction of the modern liberal state — first — and social and democratic — in which Galicianism has always restricted access to self-government. Because, as Castelao has always stated in Galicia, "everything can be denied to Galicia less his autonomic age"—which led him, by the way, to praise the great Alfredo Brañas as the author of the first compendium of German autonomy, when Prat de la Riba and Sabino Arana had given light to no writing that could be cited—because the Galeguism, in any of their political manifestations, from the provincialist and regionalist movements of the late 19th century, passing through the Brotherhood of Speak and the federalists and nationalists at the beginning of the 20th century and culminating in the Second Republic, has always been self-organized, in the first place, the self-government, of which his Parliament is the highest expression, understood not as an end in itself but as an ideal means for Galicia, historically relegated by centralism, could be self-organized to progress. As Risco said, "we want Galicia to have an autonomy such that it enables it to solve its own internal problems, to allow it to give itself an internal organization in accordance with our way of being, with the private social structure of our people and more with its economic needs." This argument also repeated it, already in the second elaboration of the present statute, Ramón Piñeiro, when he said, "Self-government must be the political channel to mobilize the creative energies of the Greek people in the service of the empowerment of their possessions, both of material and spiritual order. It consists not of simple legal-political articulation, but of organic integration that restores Galicia's consciousness of its own identity, self-confidence and overcoming its delay." Secondly, Greekism has always held up a constitutionally guaranteed self-government capacity, not subject to the flow of conjunctural political circumstances. Valentín Paz Andrade said already in 1930: "We want an autonomous Galicia to be officially what it is of course, an integral autonomy regime that is not a governmental grace, but a legal form recognized in the fundamental code of the state and generalizable, in addition to all the communities of Spain, because that would allow us to improve throughout Spain." Thus, in the presentation presented by the motion to draft the preliminary draft of the Autonomy Statute of the 36, in which they were Bóveda, Paz Andrade, Risco, Carballo Calero, Rajoy Leloup etc., in their third conclusion it was stated that "no Spanish region should be denied, on economic grounds, the right to autonomy, by all means, because it is granted not only if it does good to it but also if it is benefited from the other regions." Because thirdly, self-governing Galeguism has always promoted an open political autonomy designed to strengthen Galicia's capacity within Spain and a democratic Europe that seeks well-being, and to cooperate with all of them and with all the nations and states of the world—particularly with those of Latin America who have welcomed our fifth province and with those so many ties to us— From the Brañas that had developed the theory of the concentric circles of power — which rise from individual autonomy to the municipal, regional, national, European and international — to republican nationalism — which was so insistent in countering autonomy with separatism, as was, for example, the case of nationalists of the Republic as Vicente Risco, who said that in defending Galicia's national character it might seem that this assertion leads to separatism and nebarism is not so, separatism is by no means a necessary consequence of nationalism, as some think. In fact, a nation can, without abdicating itself, be tied to others in many ways. The dignity and vital interest of nations demand a sum of guarantees for free social, cultural, legal and economic development. This minimum of guarantees is what Greek nationalism, disconcerting separatism, asks Galicia. And, of course, in fourth and last places, in Galicia, political autonomy seems always associated with parliamentary democracy as the best form of self-government. Xan Vicente Viqueira said that "Galicia, at the bottom of her being, demands full autonomy, condition for her to be great, but a radically democratic autonomy." That's why the recognition of self-government came together to democracy and came from the hands of the two fully democratic regimes that Spain had in its contemporary history: the Republican, whose Constitution of 31 constituted an integral state compatible with the autonomy of municipalities and regions, and that of the 1978 Constitution, which guarantees the autonomy of the nationalities and regions that make up the unit of Spain. Because, indeed, it had to be four decades after the frustrated adoption of the Galician Statute referendum, so that once again in democracy we would regain self-government, even if history was about to repeat itself. Because just as the Republic failed with a coup d'état, the latter was about to be published as a result of another coup d'état — fortunately failed — so that the 1978 Constitution could be fully unfolded. Now Galicia, a historical nationality, is an autonomous community to gain access to its self-government, in conformity with that constitution and its status, which is the basic institutional standard. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of democratic policy is the existence of a consensus on institutions, that is, on our Constitution and our Statute as part of the constitutional bloc, which also incorporates the judgments of the Constitutional Court that resolve conflicts of competence between levels of government; which also enables, as otherwise, the reform of these basic standards to be considered necessary and respecting the procedures laid down therein, which are procedures precisely aimed at ensuring that changes are made with consensus on the basic rules of the democratic game which we all must adhere to. I also agree with the participation of Galicia and the whole of Spain in the process of building a social and democratic Europe, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, which enables us to face the global challenges facing us as a society, both in the short term — the pandemic — and the medium and long term — the ability to be the main actors to solve the problems of a multipolar, digitized, globalized world, problems between those which, of course, highlight equality policy between men and women, social justice policy, the global redistribution of wealth, together with global growth and the preservation of the environment. Today, forty years after the constitution of this House, we can say that the rings of our best ancestors have been fulfilled. The autonomic Galicia is capable of making progress. From 1980 per capita GDP increased from EUR 1,894 to EUR 21,770. Galicia is the autonomous community that has most converged with Spain's average in the last forty years. Galicia has full and constitutionally guaranteed self-government, exercises its powers faithfully to the Constitution, as demonstrated by the 439 laws adopted since 1981 in this House and the protection given by the Constitutional Court when some of them — such as the recent reform of the Galician Health Act — are resorted to by other government bodies. Galicia also has its support for autonomy as the best form of self-government and integration into Spain and the world. If in the Transition, the demographic studies said that only 6% of the Greeks thought things would get worse if Galicia went to self-government and 60% thought things would get better, today, according to the latest data from the Social Research Center, we know that 63% support the current self-government state — with its competences or some other -- while only 12% advocate for a centralized state and 9% for the right of self-determination. Because, in fact, as predicted from Brañas to Piñeiro, passing through Risco, Castelao and all the many good and generous who defended autonomy for Galicia, self-government is synonymous with democracy, prosperity and well-being. Today, in these forty years, we have gained 8.8 years of life expectancy for all the Greeks and all the Greeks, thanks to a health care built by the Autonomous Community itself, which has 50 percent more medical professionals and twice more hospitals. And of course, I also respect our culture. The last known fact is that in the last year 1,100 books were published in English. Forty years ago they published around 300. Ladies and gentlemen, today it's not about asking, how recently did a professor of contemporary Greek history in the press, "Where were you at that time, what do we need you so much?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh We know where we were then and where we were still to be: committed to the Constitution that guarantees democracy, individual rights, the self-government of Galicia, the development and consolidation of the Statute of autonomy, which allows us to deepen the progress and well-being of all Greeks and Greeks, and to constitutional Galeguism. And that's why we celebrate the 40 years of the Statute and remember and commemorate the constitution of the first democratic parliament in Galicia as a way to reaffirm, from its rostrum, our commitment to democracy, to the constitution, to the Statute of autonomy and, ultimately, to the progress and well-being of all Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. I was saying at the beginning of this act that the Galician Parliament has set foot in two borrowed seats. The first one was in Xelmírez, for a little more than six months; and the second, in the palace of Fonseca, handed over by the University of Santiago de Compostela, where this House met between June 1982 and February 1989. So let's go now to the palace of Fonseca, where the Royal Philosophy of Galicia interprets the Hall of Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u10	Thanks to the Royal Philharmony and also, of course, to the University of Santiago for giving up their home to the institution that represents all the Greeks. The Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, which was also 40 years old this year, points out in its Article 9 that the powers of the Autonomous Community are exercised through Parliament, the Union and its President. We must, therefore, give the floor to the first authority of the Autonomous Community, the President of Galician Union, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u11	With Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, spokesmen of the parliamentary parliamentary majority group, ladies and gentlemen, authorities, former presidents of Parliament, Pérez Vidal, García Leira, Pilar Rojo, former president González Laxe, president and general prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, mayor of Santiago, mayors and mayors of Galicia who honor us with their presence, Mr Rectors, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Galician civil society and, of course, Members and Senators in Courts, Benquered Greeks and Greeks, I want the threshold of this intervention in this solemn session on behalf of the Government of Galicia and on my own behalf, as President, to serve to underline something we all believe to coincide with, and with us the people we owe. The last 40 years of Galician history have no parallel in any other time in the country. Our country has never been freer, well-being has never reached such high quotas. We've never been respected again. We have never had such a leading role in the whole of Spain and in the international context. Our culture has never been stronger or our most used and dearest language. No past time has been better than we now enjoy, without such a finding being used to deny the problems that we often face and which reflect in this headquarters of popular representation. In spite of everything, Galicia experiences four decades of resurgence, in which its energies are activated to forge a fraternal and modern society. Here's a common truth corroborated by the Greeks but which needs to be reaffirmed not to lose the perspective or forget the causes of this unprecedented period, which has brought us here and how we manage to open this time that is no longer a brief parenthesis but a permanent achievement. It is no coincidence that there is a framework of coexistence defined by autonomy and that it has its heart here in this Parliament. Galicia adds further proof to this partnership between parliamentaryism and progress, which is a constant in the history of the most advanced peoples in the world. Indeed, in every place where parliamentaryism settles or recovers, there is again the miracle that allows a community to rise, rise and walk. Resonance box, meeting place, channel for discrepancies to speak rationally, a forum where opponents learn to know each other and to recognize each other, Parliament is a tool that enables us to move forward in the obligation to listen. We could well say that our country's previous history has been a long wait for Parliament. Galicia was orphaned by an organ like this where it became a far-reaching idea to a nearby reality. Brilliantly, the poet Salvador García-Bodaño defined the country's disappointment "where everything is coming and not enough." Parliamentary democracy was also part of that future that did not come and was always postponed for generations to come. For centuries, Galicia was a country with two mythologies, one located in the past, at the Home of Breogán, and another looked forward to a future where the Greeks would be free and have a parliamentary home. Parliament comes under the rule of autonomy, son, in turn, of the Spanish Constitution. It is therefore not a parliament taxed or granted by powers other than that. It is not born as a result of a victory in one part of the country over another that is defeated, but as a result of democratic processes that elude confrontation and seek consensus. The Spanish democratic transition and the German autonomous transition are a break with the black legend and the long stony nights of which Celso Emilio was licked. As an heir to the Constitution and the Statute, this Parliament is related to the world's best democratic strains. In the face of this singular achievement, claiming autonomy is to make justice to an exemplary process and model reality. To the difference of other formulas present in recurrent debates about territorial organization, we know what autonomy means in theory but also in practice, in ideas and facts, in lyric and prose. We didn't speculate about what it might be. We know what it is and we believe that this Parliament is a direct consequence of the autonomous idea; an idea which is also strongly rooted in the history of democratic Galicianism, as reflected in the speech of parliamentarians. Both in the autonomous process that results in the Statute of 36 and in the vicissitudes that cross the current Statute, the protagonistism of the Galeguists is decisive. It is decisive to achieve a triumph that was then unfortunately ephemeral but which today has achieved a happy continuity. There is then a full democratic legitimacy together with an insatiable historical legitimacy accompanied by both the legitimacy derived from the broad social agreement on autonomy — which has been embodied in the polls every four years for forty years —. Thus, Galeguism is autonomist and autonomy is Galeguist. Thanks to that double support from the Constitution and the Statute, Galicia has a parliament and autonomous institutions in an interdependent world where old ideas about sovereignty have been largely overcome by the complexity of problems that do not know borders and the need for solutions that go beyond administrative boundaries. To those legitimacys that I had previously referred to, it was necessary to add another related precisely to the attempts to destroy stable and settled autonomys to be supplanted by illusory, anachronistic projects and therefore to foster social division. Having checked the harmful effect of those breachs of the social contract made around autonomy, it takes more value even the autonomous wager of our country. There is a comparative legitimacy between Galicia and other autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, in a passage from his work Democracy in America, Alexis of Tocqueville said, "Democracy is a way of society." A new Tocqueville would write "Democracy in Galicia" and could repeat exactly the same sentence: autonomy is the most appropriate institutional clothing for our country to be strong in Spain, be strong in Europe and be strong in the world. Parliament is the mirror in which the Greek people recognize each other. Democracy requires, for the strengthening of values that have belonged to our people from time to time immemorial, tolerance, allergy to extremism, complaint about agreements, stability and peaceful changes. It is not uncommon to refer at this time to the crisis of parliamentary democracy. Books, studies and even prophecies abound about the particular one. This is not the first time that happens, nor will it be the first time that the parliamentary system reaffirms itself as the most suitable tool for coexistence and progress. That critical sense that constantly questions about the defects of parliamentaryism, far from being a bad symptom, is an undeniable proof that it is alive, that it is dynamic and that it is suitable for the transformations that extenuate the times. Ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely convinced that there is no need to look outside for models to corroborate that certainty. Galicia is the model. Although he was born in autumn, just a few days from winter, the German Parliament was already part of the "thousand Springs" of Cunqueiro, those thousand Springs with which Cunqueiro dreamed of his country, a country made up of words, words that continue to make the country through his democratic representatives. Thank you, all of them, to all Members of this Parliament for the past 40 years, thanks to the Presidents and Presidents of Parliament and to the Bureaus of Parliament who have chaired us during these four decades, and allow me to thank four Members of the House: Mr Albor, Mr González Laxe, Mr Fraga and Mr Pérez Touriño. Today we solemnly commemorate the birth of a common home where we are all living together a Galicia that others could only dream of. Take care, take care of ourselves, take care of the pandemic, which unfortunately has not yet been completed, take care of our families, because the whole of our families make up the great family that is Galicia. Thank you very much and many congratulations on behalf of the Government of Galicia to the Bureau of this Parliament and its presidency for these acts of recognition of Greek democracy and for these acts of recognition of the Parliament of Galicia during this year 2021. No doubt they were all right. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Galicia is sea but it's also plain, it's mountain and it's bocarbeira, one and a thousand different realities that make us a unique place. If at the beginning of this act we evoked Galician marine, we want to present the Galician interior now with the interpretation of the Courel Mill by the folk group Cantigues and Agarimos, which, like Parliament, are on the anniversary of making 100 years of existence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u13	Congratulations to Cantigas and We are grateful for his performance. President of the Council of Galicia, Vice-Presidents, Vice-Advisors and Advisers, Members of the Bureau of Parliament, Speakers, Members and Members, Mayor of Santiago, Mayors and Mayors who today also accompany us, Valador of the People, President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, Former President of the Board of Galicia, Speakers and Former Speakers of Parliament, Members of the General Courts and other authorities and representation accompanying us in the public forum, Welsh and Welsh people following us on the Television of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, today—as it has been said—the commemoration of the four decades of life of the Parliament of Galicia, the first of the institutions that form our self-government, derived from the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, born, in turn, from the transition from dictatorship to democracy. The fruits of that transition, successfully culminated by brave people on the basis of dialogue, tolerance and personal resignations, have placed Spain, and with it Galicia, in Europe and in the select club of the advanced countries, and has given us a state of well-being that they would like in other latitudes — some close ones—. Still weak, Spanish democracy had just passed a fire test on 23F that year. Spain was a country of second, weightless in the international community. Galicia endured the traditional isolation that just over a century ago had led intellectuals like Risco to take the metaphor to denounce that our land was, in many ways, closer to America than Madrid. Prints like those starred by old people or boys with one or two peaceful cows in any country's crate of roads or corridors were still part of our landscape. The scarce and very centralized public health lived with men's men's men's men's men's men's men's men's men's men and men's men's men's men's men's men's women's men. Studying was a privilege for many, and now universalized supplies, such as telephone, constituted an object of luxury in our villages. Today, Greek is a language of prestige and culture, a protagonist, like Spanish, of cordial bilingualism practiced on our land, a treasure — our bilingualism — that connects us with more than five hundred million Spanish speakers and more than two hundred and fifty million people in the Lusophone world. But we must remember that, because of the need for unconditional support in this globalized world, I would particularly like to thank you that this is the only state parliament — and we are not the only bilingual — in which we use our language exclusively, the merit of all of you, ladies and gentlemen. We have a loving and grateful memory for the service that all our people have given to language survival in the past. Those and other experiences, which today remain only in the memory of those who have passed through the half century of life, were, four decades ago, dramatically frequent in that Galician self-government. The passing of time believes that bet's correct. Democracy and self-government had a good place for him -- he would say very well -- Galicia and its people in every way. I quote only one fact: in 1975 life expectancy in Galicia did not reach 73 years; in 2020 it was 83.82 years. Galicia demonstrates in fact the correctness of the constitutional covenant that we claim today again. The experience of these forty years believes full compatibility of concepts such as decentralization, autonomy and constitution, for exercising our self-government with care, attentive to the feeling of our people and with full loyalty to the other institutions of the state, from the mayor of the smallest county to the head of state, his majesty, King Philip VI. At this point, we must therefore say thank you, thanks to how many of them have contributed and contributed to magnifying Galicia before and after. From Parliament, since the Union, from civil society, from positions of public importance or from anonymous and silent work, all hands are necessary and always welcome. In the face of those who question the usefulness of democratic institutions and those who are interested in trying to devalue the role of parliaments, there is an urgent need to demand their full vigil, with the changes and the up-to-date that are necessary at every moment but preserving their nuclear role in the democratic system, as we have done in this House in recent times. We need a permanent Parliament in contact with people, who listen to people, speak like people, and respond to people's needs, too — and especially — to those who do not feel fully identified with institutions. In an essay entitled The liberal return, Columbia's professor Mark Lilla emphasizes the greatness of democracy and its institutions: "Social movements" — he says — "have focused very well, especially by changing minds and hearts, but in the long term they are unable to achieve concrete political ends for themselves." With motions not enough, politics and institutions are necessary. And in this context, parliaments are crucial. "Martin Luther King" -- we can read -- "was the best movement leader in the history of the United States, but, as Hillary Clinton correctly pointed out, his efforts would have been futile without Lyndon Johnson's, an experienced forger of agreements at Congress." Here, ladies and gentlemen, the greatness of democracy and its parliamentary institution, which sustains it. The eyes and ears open to people's demands to then shape them in this and other parliaments become an inescapable obligation for how many we perform these responsibilities, an obligation already before, but forces even more marked in our days. As we read in a recent and clarifying biography of Angela Merkel, "there is a handful of essential principles and values that are non-negotiable, such as freedom, democracy or the rule of law, almost everything else is likely to be negotiated." In these times of generalised crispation, when it seems at times that bread and salt are denied to the adversary, the Galician Parliament has become an island of stability, correction, respect and good forms — important in any area and therefore also in politics. It has not always been so, unfortunately, and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, we must thank this constructive attitude, just like the exercise of dialogue and even the search for consensus, total or partial, that in this House and in the committee chambers often materialize. Today, four decades after the first constitutive session of this Parliament, we are in debt to many people — much of it has already disappeared — with all the people who made possible our transit towards democracy and the consolidated autonomy that Galicia and the Greeks exercise today. For everyone, without distinction, our fraternal thanks, those who have worked since the institutions and those who have done so outside them, to the territorial Galicia and to that of emigration, those who have sown democracy before, during and after the dictatorship, paying in some cases a very high price with their lives — like Bóveda — with exile — like Castelao — with the chain — like Piñeiro — or with ostracism — like Otero Pedrayo. For all of us, I insist, our gratitude and our warm memory, and also for the staff of this house. Fortunately, despite the difficulties of this moment, Galicia passes through paths of progress and opportunities with which all of us, since the legitimate discrepancies, must commit ourselves. In the past -- we know it well -- there were attempts to draw the German autonomy. Galicia then did not allow it, as it would not allow it now to take the case. The basic principles of autonomy and self-government are neither and can never be counter-party politics in the search for short-term incomes. Galicia does not ask for privileges, but does not stop any attacks. As Castelao said, "Galice doesn't need any more but she can't conform to less." As the commemorative plaque that we have just discovered at the entrance of this Parliament, of today's 40 years! Thank you very much. I said. [[Applause]] And before the end of this solemn commemorative session of the 40th anniversary of the Galician Parliament, we heard the Italian anthem interpreted by Uxia, accompanied by a choir of children and children of the CEIP of Petelos, Mos. When they want to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-19-DSPG062.u14	Thank you very much. The session is up.
