ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u1	Let's reboot a new full. I also inform the voting delegation of Mr Martín Seco, who does so in the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Gonzalo Caballero. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u2	I also report on a number of amendments to the agenda, which are, in particular, that after the presence of the Social Policy Adviser, the question contained in paragraph 3 will be discussed. It's an interpellation to the social policy advisor... I'm communicating a few changes in the agenda, and maybe they don't know, I say. I also say that the questions to the Health Counsellor, there are two questions that will be put to him after the vote on non-law proposals, which is what was requested. All the more, we now enter the first item on the agenda. Election of candidates for the coverage of three vacancies of counsellors of the Galician Board of Auditors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u3	The procedure for the election of candidates for the covering of three vacancies of the Council of Auditors, pursuant to the Bureau's agreement of 16 November 2021, admitted to the procedure of the candidatures submitted by the parliamentary groups and subject to the mandatory appearances before Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on 2 December, the Bureau of Parliament, heard the Speaker's Meeting, on 16 December agreed to include the election on the agenda of the plenary and for the purpose of voting a ballot was drawn up with the names of the proposed persons. The election, in accordance with Article 91 1.2 and (2) of the Galician Parliament's Regulation, shall be secreted by form and by alphabetical order of surname. Candidates who get the majority of three fifths, i.e. 45 votes, will be elected. The expression of the vote shall be made as follows: votes in favour entered into the ballot box in a ballot box containing the names of the candidates proposed, marking the corresponding box or boxes with a stamp; blank votes, not marking a box; null votes, when cast in paper other than those approved by the Bureau or where the names of other persons are written or contain scraps or signals other than those used to grant the vote to the person or persons proposed. I guess they're already handing out the paperwork. You must have them all by now. [[Parliament adopted the resolution]] We will begin the call vote, which will be done by the secretary of the Bureau, Ms. Corina Porro Martínez. I pray to the president and the vice-secretary, please, if you can go there in the ballot box to accompany the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u4	Well, we've got the result. Votes issued, 74. Votes in favour of Don Anxo Ramón Calvo Silvosa, 74; votes in favour of Don Tomás Pérez Vidal, 74; votes in favour of Don José Antonio Redondo López, 74. Thus, having reached the majority of three fifths, members of the Board of Auditors are elected to Mr. Anxo Ramón Calvo Silvosa, Mr. Tomás Pérez Vidal and Mr. José Antonio Redondo López. In good time to all of them. [[Applause]] Here ends the first item on the agenda. Now we continue with the legislative text. Debates and votes of the Ditome delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets on the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u5	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mrs Noa Presas, has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u6	Thank you, President. I am presenting the ruling on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The bill was entered into the register of the German Parliament on 20 October 2021. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 20 October 2021, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission on Economics, Farms and Budgets. Parliamentary groups of the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists presented amendments to the whole, which were qualified on November 11, 2021 and rejected at the plenary session on November 22, 2021. Parliamentary Group of the People's Parliamentary Group made thirty-nine amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego twelve amendments and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia sixty amendments, which were qualified on 25 November 2021. At the meeting on 29 November 2021, the Committee on Economics, Farm and Budgets appointed the following representatives: by the People's Parliamentary Group, Ms Paula Prado del Río, as holder, and Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago, as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, as holder, and Ms Noa Presas Bergantiños as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Mr Juan Carlos Francis Rivera as holder, and Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as alternate. At the meeting on 30 November 2021, the Parliament studied the text of the draft articulate, together with the amendments tabled, and completed the report containing the recommendations it made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. It also suggested acceptance of Amendments Nos 40, 41 and 48 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as of three compromise amendments, drawn up by Amendments Nos 16, 26 and 29 from this Group. The Commission, meeting on 14 December 2021, adopted by the majority the report of the European Parliament, the particularity of which was ratified the adoption of Amendment No 48 above, and was also approved, in addition to the three compromise amendments already mentioned, five more elaborated by Amendments Nos 40, 41, 42, 43 and 49 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The text of the dictation to be put to the debate and vote in this plenary session consists of an explanatory statement, followed by forty-three articles, two additional provisions, two transitional provisions, one derogation provision and five last provisions. The joint is divided into two main headings: Title I, relating to tax measures, and Title II, relating to administrative measures. Title I, divided into two chapters, sets out changes in the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects of matters such as public employment, environment, urban management, territorial management, rural environment, infrastructure, sea, employment, social policy, health, equality, industry, trade, consumer and user protection, university system, financial and budgetary arrangements and administrative organisation. The regulatory text shall be closed with various provisions contained in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's start with the debate. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, the defence of amendments. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u8	Good afternoon to all of you at this hour. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. With regard to the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures, we have had here the debate on amendments to the whole, then in committee on amendments. The position of the Socialist Party does not change, it is the same one that we have kept around the conception of this Law of fiscal and administrative measures as a law where the People's Party, the Galician Union, systematically modifyes, habitually and year after year all sorts of rules aside from the budgetary issue. This year they are thirty laws, rules in force right now, which are modified by a mechanism that we clearly qualify as not illegal, because it is legal, but rather quite anomalous; that does not like anyone, even the People's Party, because this has been shown by their spokesperson on various occasions. But that year after year, and again this year, if you use it in an absolutely systematic way again, by depriving this Parliament and its Members and Members of the functions they have entrusted, which is to process laws in a normal, regular way and following a proper channel and procedure. And not through substantial changes to a set of rules in an absolutely short period of time, and therefore in an open debate and nothing at all, that prevents, of course, from reflecting on what is being modified and, ultimately, defining with rigour and seriousness all the needs that this country needs in the legislative plan. A debate that we qualified at the moment as indispensable because we knew the outcome, not because we should not give this debate, but because in the end the People's Party uses its absolute majority to legitimize this legislative technique. At the same time, by introducing amendments, which is already an absolutely Kafkian debate which the People's Party is sending to Galicia through the Tax Law, preventing opposition groups from making amendments to these amendments. We reject this mechanism because, far from being an exceptional mechanism of use, which could be, we understand that the Law on tax and administrative measures can be used to modify matters relating to budgets in those matters that actually affect budgetary matters. What we cannot understand is that this legislative mechanism is being used to modify all kinds of rules and all kinds of matters that have nothing to do with the budgetary question, which affect Galicia's economic and social development and which, of course, require preliminary reports, even the report which is omitted year after year in this case, as is the report of the Economic and Social Council; in addition to sectoral reports of the various councils where laws are amended which affect matters which are of competence to each of the boards. The normal thing would be that each amended rule, apart from the budgetary question, had an ordinary process in this parliament with a calm debate, a serious debate, a rigorous debate. And where logically the People's Party, with its absolute majority, would then decide the meaning of that law or that rule that is passed through ordinary channels -- we insist -- in this parliament. This doesn't happen, and it doesn't happen because the People's Party uses this parliament too and the Galician Union as an accomplice to executive power to approve all sorts of rules aside from legislative debates, which is the function of this parliament. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] This parliament, of which praise was made here last Sunday in relation to its fundamental and transcendental role, as the central constitution of the self-government of Galicia. A role of Parliament such as the house and, of course, the seat of the representation of Galician people's sovereignty, and as the meeting point for the different political sensibilities, and the common house to reach agreements. But it also uses Parliament and it must also give this meaning to Parliament — in this case the Council of Galicia, endorsed by its group, in this majority case — to whiten everything that the People's Party and the Council of Galicia are unable to bring here to debate with a minimum of rigour. Therefore, a whole revolutionumum these kinds of laws which, of course, affect legal security, which affects proper transparency, which provokes criticism of doctrine and relevant constitutionalists and which, of course, subtracts political and social debate, in addition to public participation, which is absolutely necessary in the adoption of a legislative text. In addition, you accommodate the processing of this law at the time of the very process of the Budget Law, which is impossible from now on to sink into various matters that have to do with the modified subjects, avoid getting reports and, ultimately, we are making false debates on matters that are absolutely fundamental in this country in aspects that are absolutely important, as is the Public Health Act. Public health law that you now amend in the Law of Measures. Public health law that was modified on its own day in this parliament, and where the Socialist Group told you that there were issues in that Public Health Act that could affect fundamental rights and that could have a vice of unconstitutionality. This is obviously the case because the Galician Union was assigned competences in the field of vaccination that did not correspond to it and to the margins of the national vaccination strategy, which is the sole competence of the State. Well, that legislative amendment to which the Constitutional Court obliges them, you bring it through the Law of measures hidden in the amendment of thirty norms; that is, by scrutinizing it on a question that is absolutely fundamental. When reality and the important thing is that a question that affects the whole of the Greeks transcendentally should be debated in this plenary, and it should be brought to this plenary in a standardized way, and not hidden in a joint modification of a multitude of rules. Thirty amended rules, one hundred and twelve since 2017, through this Law of tax and administrative measures. A matter of which we do not discuss legality or constitutionality, but which, at last, to our judgment, suffers from major vices in relation to their processing. It debates that it escapes from ethics and aesthetics itself and that, of course, it is not excessively democratic. A law of measures that does not accompany this chamber's legislative baggage. In the past year and a half, when it comes to legislation, the People's Party, the Galician Union, was unable to pass more than nine laws on this chamber. Of course, nothing to do with the legislative baggage that I've already mentioned here throughout that dismembered two-party Government, which was able to approve fifty-six laws outside this mechanism, and without counting the laws of budgets. Therefore, a Law of measures which, by modifying all kinds of matters — I insist — have nothing to do with the budgetary question, omits the participation of the whole of citizenship, omits the public exposure of this bill and, of course, prevents the making of suggestions by the whole of the citizens of this country. A law that violates the law of transparency and good governance adopted by the Galician Council, the Council's internal regime regulation of Galician Union, or the Law on the Rationalization of the Autonomic Public Sector. In the light of this Law on measures, which we criticise as a legislative technique and which we have already done during the debate on the whole amendment in the plenary and in the committee itself, the Socialist Party is proposing amendments — as is logical — that is sixty amendments in different blocs, basically in the tax system and also in the field of public employment and in the area of regulation of the neighboring mountains in common. In some matters we have reached agreements and even transactions with the People's Party, because it seems to us that these are relevant issues, although we understand that this method of legislation is absolutely inappropriate. And in the fiscal field, of course, I'm not going to talk about fiscal policy anymore, you've talked over this morning and you've been talked about during the budgetary debate about which is the fiscal policy of the People's Party and what is the fiscal policy we're defending from the Socialist Party, which is much more progressive, of course. But if I'm going to talk about the tax benefits, those that the Galician Board propagandistically says they benefit the whole of the Greeks; which is absolutely false, as has already been said here and is demonstrated by the tax benefits introduced in the field of some taxes, as is the case of the IRPF. It would also be good if you made an assessment of the impact of seeing who benefits tax exemptions and subsidies are introduced into the tax of the Galician Union. We do not disagree with the fact that, for example, in the area of property transmission tax, tax rates are lowered to 9%, as the Act of Measures sets out in the Act of Measures, as long as, logically, good or object of transmission does not have a value greater than €300,000. As far as wealth tax is concerned, we cannot agree. We argue that the free limit would certainly go down from 700,000 to 400,000 euros. Our fiscal policy, of course, has nothing to do with yours, as has already been said here, as our spokesman has already expressed throughout this morning. Tax policy which, of course, benefits only from high incomes from the Galician Union. And in this country there are 1,200,000 declarants in the IRPF field; of them, 800,000 have an average salary of EUR 22,177, which is equivalent to a liquidable base of EUR 15,000 to EUR 17.000. In this liquidable basic tranche the tax benefit, the exemption and the tax bonus that comes from the Union to the whole of the Greeks amounts to EUR 12. And indeed, the stretch of Welsh that earns more than 100,000 euros, which is 38,000 in this country, 0.3%, has a tax benefit of 500 euros. In the total tax benefit and IRPF of 55 million, a tax impact of 20 million euros. So you clearly legislate for high incomes, and those who benefit from their taxation are to high incomes. You're doing what you're doing is strangling the tariff, lowering the tariff tranches and, consequently, harming fiscal progress. [[Applause]] That was already done by Mr. Montoro when he ruled the People's Party in Madrid, and he was also doing himself in Castile with Mrs. De Cospedal when he was president. Therefore, to those who basically benefit from their tax policy and tax exemptions and subsidies, which we have linked in any case, we do not say that tax subsidies or tax exemptions should disappear, but rather that they are linked to income issues and that they are linked to tax benefits depending on the income capacity of those who gain that benefit. However, I insist on some issues in which we come to some kind of transaction with the People's Party, especially in public employment matters. I would like to highlight the transactional amendment drawn up with the People's Party and our amendment, which is incorporated by Amendment No 16 of the Socialist Group, a single transitional provision which has to do with transfers due to gender violence in the case of public employees, which we understand must have effect since the entry into force of this Public Employment Act. So we see positive that this amendment will be negotiated and we see it agreed, regardless of the global criticism we make in this way of legislate. Just like we've dealt with certain kinds of amendments that have to do with the neighboring mountains in common, basically because we understand that the social reality of neighboring communities has changed over the past few years. So it would be good for the law of 1989 to be amended in a definitive way, if a new law was brought to this parliament, if it was to consent to that new law with the communities of neighboring mountains in common, with the sector and if it was to comply with that law with the Fegamp itself. Of course, it's not to be accepted that year after year you're introducing amendments in this field, that the only thing they're causing is legal insecurity. However, we understand that there is a reality in that area that has to do with the neighbouring communities of the mountains in common, that because of a question of the non-existence of neighbors they are abandoned, and in this case we understand that the interim management and to the benefit of the mountain community is done by the Council of Galicia itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u10	...or by the municipality itself if it so wakes up, and that it is always done for the benefit of the mountain community at the expense of the rehabilitation of the community of neighbors itself. I'm done. Then I'll talk about the amendments of the People's Party and some questions that also have to do with the amendments of the BNG. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u11	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u12	Thank you, President. To start a full meal in this country, that's indeed an affront and an outrage to Galicia, but eating is cowardly. So, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, who still stand here stoically, we will therefore begin with this final debate and vote on this proposal for a Tax and Administrative Act or accompaniment Act. I was trying to break the ice a little bit with this initial joke. But to focus a little on the debate on this occasion, in this already final debate, what we have done since the BNG, to justify and motivate the position as well, which I already advance that will be contrary to this bill — as it could not be otherwise — it was to focus on what we are going to vote on today in this accompanying Act, which involves some of the reforms that include this Law on tax and administrative measures. As far as tax measures are concerned, what is a tax discount for higher incomes. This morning a lot of taxes were talked about, and I wanted to stop in some of the aspects that I'm now collecting this ruling of the Accompanying Law by 2022. A normal and current worker, a foreign worker, of the vast majority that generates wealth and sustains this country, will see a saving of about 12 euros/year. Someone who covers more than €60,000 or €100,000 per year, that is to say, by setting such a random example, the Parliamentary Vice-Speaker of the Block — to understand us — or someone who covers more — I insist — that the Parliamentary Vice-Speaker of the Nationalist Block of Galicia will have a savings on the proposal which today is put to the 500 Euro per year vote. Five hundred euros a year saving over sixty thousand and 100 thousand euros a year. Because thanks to the inestimable - as well as to say - you have come close to those who have a liquid base of more than a hundred thousand euros directly have been removed from this specific treatise of the IRPF. He used to talk, and I appreciate the appointment that was made to a family businessman, he didn't give his name, but we thought more or less who he could be, that he said there were companies that were leaving and entrepreneurs who were leaving Galicia to pay less taxes or not to pay taxes. And I say: Go God with them, because little is wanted by this country, if we think taxes are not a robbery to the armed hand, but a system of redistribution of little Leninist Marxist wealth, too, if you allow me. [[Applause]] What's that supposed to mean? Let's go to the consequences. There is nothing harmless in this life and these political decisions are neither sound. That you, a common worker, who earns wealth with your work in any company or service that exists in this country, because almost nothing will happen to you. I insist: 12 euros a year of saving with that tax discount; in a year when you have to say a completely upheavy inflation, as we're living, it takes 500 euros of purchasing power to each worker and worker in this country, to place us. But who's got the most, because it's pretty much supposed to be. Tomorrow's Christmas draw, and my grandmother always said something like this, like she's going to drop quite a peak, a good peak. Some will fall even less in the rock tomorrow precisely to draw that lottery. But what does it mean to the administration? I mean, what does that tax discount mean to all of us, all of us? After all, we are all Fatenda, because there's money going out to pay the doctors, to pay all the health personnel, all the teaching staff, to pay -- I know -- the risk, for example, for the most vulnerable people in our country. For with data from Atriga's report — even little suspect of being a Block — we speak of € 136 million less than it ceases to enter the public administration only with the discounts, not those included in the law by 2022, but some of which have already been applied in our country. For example, lower taxes on the purchase of second houses, lower taxes on casinos and bingos, or leave tax on inheritances between EUR 400,000 and a million. And who does this harm? I insist that there is no political, economic or fiscal decision that is harmless. For he who has the least clearly, because he who has the most use does and more owes them also to the public services; he who goes every day, who needs it, to the public health, because he who has the money goes to private because he has the resources to be able to pay. That's why we since BNG, what do we say, what do we propose? We say this is a regressive reform, more regressive, even though the original proposal of the Galician Union, because it favors those who have the most. And the proposal we make is precisely to turn it around; the amendments tabled by our group are still kept alive, and what we want is that it pays the most. With a proposal, if you allow me, very, very conservative — I must say — what the BNG proposes. Because the proposal that the Block makes is to keep the downs for liquidable bases below EUR 35,200 and progressively increase taxation to the highest liquidable bases. How much and how much? Indeed, EUR 53 for the bases of EUR 47,600, EUR 177 for the bases of EUR 60,000 and EUR 377 for the bases of EUR 100,000; incomes above EUR 150,000, which is not minute sins, EUR 1,377. I insist: whoever has the most, gets closer to guaranteeing the rights of all and all, to make justice with that basic principle of social justice that each according to his abilities and everyone according to his needs. But this proposal for accompaniment law does not focus solely on these types or in particular taxes, and in the proposal we made from BNG we want to go a little further into the other dimension which also have taxes, and which has to do with not only the redistribution of wealth, but rather to achieve broader objectives than mere collection, such as ensuring the social function of housing. In this plenary session since the Galego Nationalist Block, we are going to talk about a lot of housing as a right, because my companion Alexandra Fernández will defend an interpellation in this respect, but we wanted to bring here today one of the proposals that we incorporate into our amendments and that we formulate this Accompanying Law from our group, with a clear objective of mobilizing empty housing and placing it on the market to ensure that social function and that fundamental right collected because nothing more and nothing less than in the 1978 Constitution. How? Well, with something Euskadi does, which makes the United Kingdom, which makes Paris in France, which makes other countries in our neighborhood more or less close to us geographically. Again, the BNG has a rather conservative position this year, so much more conservative than the Christian Basque democracy of the PNV, and what we're trying to create is a tax that exacerbates the empty housing owned by legal persons, which is empty for a period of more than two years. What does Euskadi propose? For they go far beyond legal persons, they include physical persons, and they also speak in their decree — that I invite everyone to read it, approved this year 2021 — of expropriation and forced rent; the PNV in Euskadi. Or something else so very subversive that it has a country too little — I don't know — suspected of being the Block, like the United Kingdom, which records through its councils with the Council Tax, which is very similar to the IBI — for example, in the case of Birmingham 150% more — those empty dwellings. The goal is to mobilize those dwellings that today are no more than serving to speculate and generate wealth to renters and owners — I insist: legal persons — and that should be placed on the market to guarantee a basic, human fundamental right, inherent to each one of us and to each one of us as the right to housing. Beyond the tax and tax reforms, this Law of measures, which is where the bulk of the articulation of the Accompaniment Law is centered, which brings us one more year—that is, like the tower, which comes back every year—reforms in this case of legislative measures. I insist: twenty-seven laws of a pen, out of tax reforms. What are they reforming? So basically we want to put the accent or focus on four fundamental issues: In the first one they create a new professional category, without any kind of dialogue, not least with the consensus of our country's voluntary professionals and doctors, nor with the trade union organizations, which is to create a single contract for family doctors, who will have to serve in their health center and also as mandatory also for guards in the CAP. This is not the case today, because the guards at the continuing points of attention are voluntary. And although if you want to present us as a measure to respond to the structural problems that we bring, that we drag into the public health of our country, you won't do much good, or I'd dare say that they're going to serve better than nothing. Secondly, they reform the Law from neighboring mountains in common. They also go directly to the line of flotation in this form of traditional Welsh property, the common property. They do this in this case with the plaza in addition to the Socialist Party. Communal mountains that will happen when the Union declares them in a state of abandonment to the Welsh Government to be offered later to the Town Councils. We want to remember and underline here from the Galician Nationalist Block that the communal property, the neighbouring mountains in common hand, have a character — so sound in its nature and its definition — inalienable, indivisible and untransferable. This is the fourth reform that comes through the back door of the Law of neighboring Mountains in common hand. Then they'll come here to kick their chests, that once a year, that doesn't hurt, talking about self-government. [[Applause]] So self-government is also to defend and not to undermine traditional and popular forms of Greek property, which we speak of as Germanic and Roman, I want to remind you of. That's self-government, too. It seems to us, and we say it as active and passive, and we repeat it again today, that Galicia today has nothing to do with the one of fifteen, twenty, thirty, and forty years ago, that is obvious, and we need to adapt the regulation to legislation, to society and to current reality. But if you want to discuss, really, seriously, the present and the future of the neighbouring mountains in common, because great: there is here a proposal for a partial or total reform law, a new law that replaces or exceeds that of 1989, but deals with the ordinary regulatory route, without stealing or denying the debate of participation to the Communards and Communards, to the whole of society and to the people who act in this country, and of course also without denying us the parliamentary forces themselves to be able to have a sustained debate and a debate up to what we believe deserves this form of so traditional Greek property. Come on, I'd say with decency and political courage, come out front and not through the back door. Because this law isn't the first time it's changed, they've already modified it through the back door with the 2012 Mountain Law, and they're back now with this accompanying Law trying to steal the debate. [[Applause]] Thirdly, another reform — this is the mother of the year, the square of the circle — which is already making basic sectoral legislation to regulate nothing more and nothing less than the transport sector and the infrastructure for sustainable mobility in our country. Delirious, isn't it? It's no longer a Law of measures which is an exceptional tool, which we don't like, but we abuse it every year as if we had been living in it; no, there are now directly no baldic or minor sectors, such as road mobility, the passenger and commodity transport sector in our country, which are regulated by the 2017 Accompanying Law, and now also 2022. Because — I insist — instead of going out with political courage and bringing here bills of law that regulate, with all dialogue, with all the rest and with all the ambition they have and their absolute majority, sectors that are so fundamental to addressing the climate crisis, such as mobility and transport, because no, through the back door and with an accompanying law takes miles. [[Applause]] And finally, but not least, the reform that makes of various and varied legislation governing the wind sector. This — if I may say so — is that it has no name, so directly; it is pure political pharisaism, pure hypocrisy and false morals. [[Applause]] Because they bring in a supposed moratorium, which is not so, because really what they're trying to make a little bit of time as an administration to process the huge amount of wind projects that have already been submitted, more than seven thousand megawatts that are being requested, after the peak was placed on Flanders by Iberdrola, Greenalia, etc., with more than 200 applications that are being recorded. And besides being a false moratorium, it is not so, after the amendments, you should also be grateful again for the invaluable help of the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group, for the extension of the distance between population nuclei and aero-genders will no longer be applicable to parks that are reconnaissance objects or other parks that are already being requested in processing. Because the PP, always with an active listening will, is always worthy of representative of the interests of the electric oligopolie, for it has paid attention to whom it has sent to stop. And whoever pays, orders, and whoever commands, commands. [[Applause]] We don't know if it'll be Greenalia, if it'll be Iberdrola... We don't know very well who'll be the one to stop. But what we say to them and ask them to do is to protect not only the rights of people who live and work especially in rural areas or in the rural environment of our country, but what we need — and we will also debate in this plenary with a BNG motion about it — is to make an integral reform of a sector that is strategic, obviously, for this country, but that needs a management, a new sectoral wind plan, which is adapted to the current reality, both in technological advances and in the need for the protection of natural space, biodiversity and our environment. In the face of the climate crisis, but not only because societies are moving forward, fortunately, and we have earned from an environmental perspective and a climate perspective. Finally, and we have finished, we are known — I repeat it also to record — that we do not support or agree with the form or the bottom of these laws of measures, nor as a legislative procedure, and much less agree with the bottom of the amendment that is included in it. That's why we will vote against it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the final text of the Law on Measures for the year 2022 in which we legislate important issues that are useful for solving problems and for making life easier for the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm not going to go into sterile controversy about the constitutionality of this legislative instrument... - I'm not taking off the mask, if you don't mind. Thank you. —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u15	Yes, if you feel more comfortable, we respect you. Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u16	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u17	There's no problem, but she wants to do it like that. It's free.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. He said I'm not going into sterile controversy, Mr. Francisco, about the constitutionality, the legality of this rule. It is clear that there are already a number of Constitutional Court rulings that this rule is said to be constitutional. And besides, we are before an ordinary law, and ill-called accompaniment law. I've explained it several times: the Accompanying Law is to the general budgets of the State. Why? Because those accompanying laws go within the Budget Law itself. This law is a law different from the Budgets Act. So he doesn't have the same procedure as the law of the state. You're still with that mantra. But not by repeating it again will become true. Just like when you say the ESC report is needed. It has been made clear in various debates that the ESC's report is not necessary. I'm going to focus the debate on the positive, in terms of what we regulate, to try to explain the problems that we intend to solve with this law, because the citizenry voted for this, voted on us to solve their problems, not to generate more. And we do it strictly, Mr. Francisco, and we do it with debate, and no one robs us of our role. You came here to say exactly what you said in the whole debate, in the debate of amendments, in the Phoenicia... that is, we don't, because we meet with sectors, we meet with officials, with unions, just like you certainly do. And many of our amendments are fruit of those meetings. So we do listen to people. And then I think it's incredible, Mr. Francisco, that you come back here again with the mantra that the Welsh Health Act is unconstitutional. It's false, Mr. Francisco. What happens is that you have to cover up your incompetence of socialism. You in the Spanish state, from March 2020 until today, are twenty-one months of pandemic where the Government of Spain has not made a pandemic law; it is leaving the restrictions and decisions of the pandemic in the hands of the courts. And the top of the hive is that now Mr. Sánchez, in the middle of the sixth wave, from Saturday or Sunday, I don't know what day it was, that to justify that it was Catalonia uses the Government's delegation to give a press round and say that he convenes a Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, because it must have taken Mr. Sánchez a long time. But from Wednesday to Good Night forty-eight hours ago, there's no time to make any one legal decision, Mr. Francisco. So it's a pantomime what you're doing with the pandemic and making decisions. And that you come here to criticize the autonomous community that does make a pandemic law to make decisions based on legality is surprising. And you, the socialists, took her to the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] Galicia is the only autonomous community with a pandemic law. I'm lying, Balearics too. Oh, copy of the Welshman. Oh, but that didn't take her to the Constitutional Court, what a coincidence! What is introduced in this law on the Health Act is the agreement reached by the Autonomous Community with the State to tone a matter of law, but it is not unconstitutional, and so said the Constitutional Court. I spent a lot of time explaining this, yes, but I think it was important, because as you want to cover up your incompetence, you intend to transfer it to the People's Party. And I won't allow that. In the parliamentary process, we actually incorporate forty-eight amendments; thirty-nine were from the People's Group; we accept one from the Socialist Group and we incorporate eight transactions with the Socialist Group. Eighteen of the amendments that we have tabled are merely in legal practice, in order to nuance questions or to avoid bad interpretations, as is the case with Amendments Nos 27 and 28, in the sense that in the Law of measures primary care and hospital absence could constitute the same professional area, and in order to avoid such confusion we introduced those amendments. Then there are amendments in the field of civil service. We traded our amendment 7 with PSOE Amendment 16 for an improvement in job transfer conditions in cases of gender-based violence, and incorporated the retroactivity of the measure, which was what you proposed in your amendment. These transactions demonstrate, Mr Francisco, that we have reached agreements, that we have been able to change something. You know it was useful to Phoenician, perhaps not as much as you wanted in the things you'd proposed. But I'm also going to explain why we said no to the things you've raised. We regulate an improvement for civil servants, that these staff don't have to wait two years to take part in the internal promotion shift. We broaden the scope of coverage of territorial posts to cover staff from health, education or justice. We are focusing on reducing temporality. The change we propose responds to the need to provide vacancies that are taking place with the staff who will be in the position of a career officer. We also address different issues on some scales and specialties, such as social educator, child educator, assistant to road agents, and the speciality of childhood garden becomes child education. On forest firefighter scales and brigade boss we regulate that it is integrated into its group C1. We also deal with other amendments with the Socialist Group in the field of optional technical agents, in the speciality of sociocultural animation. And transactions relating to regulations relating to the common-hand neighbouring mountains, as I said before. In the original text of the Media Act it is anticipated that in the event of the absence, extinction or disappearance of the community of neighbors holding the neighboring mountain or in common hands would be the municipalities the temporary holders of this mountain, for the benefit of the community. However, through the amendments of the Socialist Group, we reformulate the initial approach, in the sense that this competition will not be assigned to the council but to the Council of Galicia. Well, then a series of questions related to this new competenceal assignment to the Galician Union. We have also made a number of changes in the rural environment. We extended the transition period between the old model and the forest agreement and consortia and the new public contract of the mountains until December 31, 2023, instead of 2021. It is about having more time for the transition between the current model of consortia and conventions and the new public management contract, and also avoiding confusion between those administered under Article 81 of Law 7/2021. Well, what did I say he was going to vote? I also said to Mrs. Rodil: What are we going to vote for? So we're going to vote, firstly, on a tax drop. I know they don't like the Popular Party lowering taxes; they try to reduce it to the slightest expression. If the Galician Nationalist Block proposes a tax reduction, it turns out it comes in very, very conservative plan; it has come to say that it came in "the Basque Christian way", Mrs. Rodil. It almost convinces me, Mrs. Rodil. What happens is that then I had a light and I remembered when they said that they weren't independentists, they were sovereignists, and they quickly dropped their lamb skin. [[Applause]] For we, in the face of the inaction of the Central Government, in Galicia, have made a generalized tax reduction, prioritising efforts on the lowest and middle incomes, which will favour the increase in consumption, employment and, consequently, also in the collection. And in this way we lower the tax burden to 100 percent of citizens to increase the income available to families, promoting consumption, investment and improving the competitiveness of companies. Mr. Puy has already explained it in his previous appearance in the debate of the Budget Law. Figures show that when we lower taxes, the collection increases. Thus, in the IRPF, since 2015 — which was the year before the fall in 2016 — and up to the 2019 campaign — the IRPF's declarants increased by 6% and 28% to the collection. I regret that with this data Mr. Knight stands out, because, of course, he said he had never seen any of the same cases. Well, it looks like Galicia is. The data are not opinionable, they are what they are, and this is a reality. The People's Party has a tax model that's not limited to the year 2022, because we've been taxing for ten years. And the Italian IRPF discount model allows the Greek contributors to be among those who pay less throughout Spain. About this, as we've talked a lot, I'm not going to continue inciting. But yes, Mrs. Rodil, you were talking here about whether the lottery is for people, because people are having a very bad time. I remind you that people are bad because there's a government in the state that's not doing anything, and that government in the state is supported by the Nationalist Block in Galicia. You voted for Pedro Sánchez as president. [[Applause]] And you've abstained in budgets next year, because it won't be a little angry if we vote against the budgets. For at this moment when the left is unable to control the price of light, the price of gas oil goes up, the fees go up, it doesn't stop the contraction and the rise of the general IPC prices, the bread goes up, the eggs go up, the oil goes up, the families need liquidity. So the Board continues... don't I know if you mean anything, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? [[Murmurs.]] You've talked before and enough, in addition. Together, I continue to lower taxes to increase consumption — yes, no, and for allusions, I am responding to the allusions you made earlier — employment and investment, and moving from reactivation to recovery. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, among the tax cuts we're going to approve today, we're expanding the deduction by family welcome. We eliminate the current restriction, so that the deduction of IRPF by reception can also be applied in cases of foster care for the minor's family, so that it is propitiated and fosters family care. In Galicia dances annually to 617 families, we speak of 772 minors who avoid institutionalization of being in juvenile centers. A special mention deserves the changes made in the field of health, with the new category of optional primary care specialist. Mr Francisco said in another debate, in committee, that this law amends matters of silence. Well, certainly, living in a time of pandemic and not having medical professionals is a matter of silence, it's an important matter. So the current situation calls for us to do our best to provide the health care system with more professional health care. It's a problem that medical services have, not only in Galicia, but throughout Spain and across Europe. It is estimated that if we did not take urgent action in four years, we could face a deficit of 400 professionals in primary care. It's a global problem. Several requirements have already been made to the Government of Spain to create the emergency specialty, eliminate the replenishment rate, simplify the accreditation process of new teaching units, perform an extraordinary MIR call. Well, in the face of the inaction of the Government of Spain to all the demands we make, Junta has to do something, and that's why we created this new category of optional primary care specialist, and it amends, to make this category even more attractive, we established that access is through merit contest. Well, the theme of the wind. Mrs. Rodil, if we regulate the wind sector, if we introduce protectionist measures from the rural environment, from the Nature Network, they don't like it. If we introduce the moratorium, it's supposed to be a moratorium, what happens? Let's tear down the chiringuit on the platforms. That's what happens, that all those platforms that have ahead of them all come out of the same office of lawyers, and we all know each other in this country, Mrs. Rodil. And he's got a problem, of course, that now they're disassembled in the street. Don't worry, they'll find another field where to put things in, where to put signs and where to get the flags out with the red stellate. We give priority to development compatible with the rural environment, and that's why from January a moratorium of year and a half is established so that we can process all those files that are pending, and also in this current context of legal insecurity I think it's important. And we don't rule for those you say, because they don't seem to be very happy either. We're not happy about the wind company sector, you know? Because we rule for the Greeks and for the Greeks, and the only commitment we have is with Galicia, neither with the top sectors, nor with the bottom sectors. And as for wind, we also put forward a proposal that would give priority to those of the wind that give renewable energy to companies in the Galician industry. It was another opportunity for companies that are paying so much, the electrointensives, they could have a legal possibility of having one more chance, and there we are thinking, yes, in Alcoa. And you said no. It's your call. We don't feel bad, but soon they don't come here saying they don't do everything they can, no, try. Another thing is that you go out or don't go out. But you guys at the entrance already say no, because even if they say no, they're still "no." And, as if the time is over, Mr President, I'm still on the next shift. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u20	Yes, thank you again. Our position with regard to this Law on measures is obviously public. We shall vote against the final text of this law. And basically because we understand that this is not the right mechanism for amending rules, laws, that there is Parliament, that there are Members and Members, representatives of popular sovereignty, and that here there are regulations and channels suitable for amending laws, and that is our role, to do it in a peaceful, quiet manner, with reports. You were talking about the Public Health Act, because the Public Health Act that brought here, not the Galician Union, brought it to the People's Party, at one of the points of that law it basically established that citizens had to vaccinate themselves. Sure, yeah, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you bring this law from the Group of the People's Party and not from the Union precisely to make clear reports that are mandatory, which is what they basically do also through this Law of tax measures, modifying thirty rules, without these amendments accompanying the preceptive reports and which are necessary for all of us to do our function. [[Applause]] In tax matters, at last, I'm not going to talk anymore about tax matters because you've been talking here long enough. But it shocks the People's Party itself to send out the People's Party, in this case of the Galician Union, and it seems excessive to you that in the course of the IRPF's tax tariff there is a further tranche for the income of 100,000 euros. You suppress through that amendment, which shows that you legislate uniquely and exclusively for the most powerful classes, for those who have the most and for those who earn the most in this country, who benefit most from tax benefits and bonuses, as I've told you before. What we think is a little Kafkian of all this is that the People's Party itself is embroiled in the Council of Galicia itself in a law of measures which itself already offers quite legal insecurity in many areas, depriving these Members of the possibility of proposing amendments to the amendments of the People's Party and which we can hardly accept. Of course, we can compromise — I believe that is what Mr Puy is telling Mrs. Paula Prado, I am sorry — with the People's Party and, in fact, we have done it on some issues, especially on the matter of mountains. And I wanted to make a little clarification here regarding transactions in the area of joint neighbouring mountains, especially in relation to what Mrs. BNG said. It is not true that we here try, at last, to agree with the People's Party the displacement of the title of the neighbouring mountains in the common hand of the neighbours, which are the inalienable, uncomprehensible owners of the mountains themselves, to the Council of Galicia. What we're trying, logically, is that in a dependency situation, where there are no communities of neighbors that manage the mountain, obviously someone manages them for the benefit of that mountain community, cautiously and provisionally. And we understand that it must be Junta, and Junta in turn has to offer that management to the municipality itself where the mountain lies, through a forest management body and through the creation of a forest management instrument. That's what we thought. With regard to the amendments made by the People's Party, of all kinds, of course, Mrs Paula Prado mentioned some here. With regard to the amendment to health care, the creation of this category, the possibility that a health care physician, family medicine and community medicine might have access to the status of primary health care specialist, we are not opposed to the fact that in this country there are more doctors, no; we are against it is that we do this without creating the right professional category and negotiating in this case with the agents involved, especially with all the unions, with which, of course, nothing has been dealt with at all with these kinds of issues. With regard to the amendments linked to the wind sector introduced by the People's Party, we understand that, in fact, what we have to bring serious proposals here is that we have to regulate through a new wind sector plan, we have to do it again, we have to negotiate with the Fegamp, we have to negotiate with the sector and we have to stop taking measures that only offer is legal insecurity in its application. Just to finish, in relation to the amendments of the BNG, we are going to abstain, not because we have an abismal difference in tax policy, that in some matters we can coincide, as in the area of tax progression, which also introduces the BNG in the field of IRPF, property tax and succession, but because the BNG through certain amendments creates taxes, and we believe that this is not the right technique to create taxes through...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u22	...amendments to the Budget Act or the Tax and Administrative Measures Act. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u23	Thank you, Mr. Francis Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u24	Thank you, President. And so Mrs. Paula Prado calls it "parliamentary technician," which is translated as pale Roman, Greek, I don't know, English, as they wish, is to cover up the carpets of her party in the government, which are the transitional provisions that are loaded when they legislate other laws, for trying to fix them now. [[Applause]] That's a lot. Eight times Article 22 of the same Fire Prevention Act, which was 2007, may be amended, but there is absolutely nothing left. And they'll say, have you brought another fire prevention law? What's going on, man!, the accompanying laws that are for that, to make, undo and change almost to the titles to the laws without giving — I insist — an honest debate in political terms and in democratic terms, that when you want to change something, that have all the legitimacy and the votes to do it, come forward and not through the back door, and steal political debates and participation, which is what we're going to talk about and much more now. [[Applause]] I'm going to focus on the last five minutes of intervention on what is being said here, on what is included here and on the consequences of the reform of different regulations relating to the wind sector, also because it is a matter that worries and matters very much to this country and to the Galician society. And I recall what I said in the first intervention: it is false moral and absolute political hypocrisy, with a moratorium that is not such; it is more almost a touch of horn, a warning to navigators to "put on the batteries", to put the spike, because the sector, which is the law of the jungle, is so, and the first one to arrive and put the flag there — that is like when they colonize Africa — is left with the territory, and then whatever it is... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] This is what we've lived for, because things happen here several times. And this is what we experienced when they announced the bomb and dish that moratorium on the eucalyptus. What were people up to? Pulling pines that were useless, to put more and more eucalyptals before that moratorium was applied. That's right, because they're good to warn in time for people to go and put on the batteries. [[Applause]] With this, anyway. If there was still someone left to put that proposal for a polygonal project, because it had time before it came into force all these two months, which must also be remembered to be temporarily located; two months — I say this for something that I will comment on at the end — that we have been in the process of processing this law. It's a moratorium -- I insist a lot -- that's not so, that what I was trying... that's right, and I'm glad, and I was hoping you'd say the one about the banners, the block that controls everything, everything!; gives pleasure, mayors and mayors of the People's Party, such as that of Oia or that of Lalin. Maybe that's why they're so nervous. [[Applause]] And so are those -- I don't know -- in a nationalist, sovereignist and independentist context. [[Applause]] These platforms from north to south, which from east to west in this country are defending a right that we understand is basic, which is that, in fact, economic activity and industrial activity in this country respect the minimum. And this is what we have here, this predatory wind boom, which you favor, moreover, cheerful and enthusiasticly, with the legal reforms they have introduced throughout the last legislates, it respects nothing. Nothing! Neither life, nor territory; nor coexistence between people, gainful farms, primary and polygonal activities or wind farms. And it's not that they say — and I don't know — those hordes captured by the nationalist contubernance, including the mayors and mayors of the People's Party. How do you think they're subversive and controlled by the Glaga Culture Council Block? That it's a statute agency, statuary! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The one from the chest blow of Sunday in that articulated is like a statistical body the Council of Galician Culture. I quote it here literally, you have the report — it doesn't matter to me — and if I don't be sure about it — that they're hearing a few strokes too — they have it. I insist: the way in which wind farms are developing, the wind projects, "results negative to areas of our society so proud" — they have this archaism so— "like culture and even economy, as it affects landscapes, the environment and heritage." What does the Block ask for? Something — I insist — will be discussed in this plenary by means of the motion we have tabled. What we are asking is that it be ordered, indeed, but with a regulation according to the times, to technological development and to a wind plan that has expired but not since yesterday, not a month, not a year ago, but for too long ago in this country. [[Applause]] And then, in order to finish — because they come back again — as in fact two hours before it took place — and less bad than because of circumstances beyond the will of the organization — the debate and the vote in committee of the dictation had to be moved. Two hours before that debate and a vote in the Committee on Petition, the People's Party proposed that we introduce an amendment to a law that was not even in the initial project. And here's Alcoa. How long has Alcoa been hanging from a thread with thousands of jobs pending from a thread for the price of light? Because mobilizations and war workers have been at war for years. So, to me, what seems to me — to begin with — is that it's less serious and less democratic even if we try to make the last modification by the back door and at the last moment. Look: no, the Block does not contain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, a lot of theatre with Alcoa, but total to leave them shot the same way. Totally, Alcoa doesn't have the Galego Nationalist Block anymore. So don't hurry up on the stage. [[Laughter]] Mr. Francisco, your argument about the Health Act is so gross that you quoted here an article that has not been modified or in a single coma. So that's the obvious proof that what suits you is that Galicia has passed a Health Act and has highlighted the absolute incompetence of the socialist government in Madrid, which is unable to pass a pandemic law. [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Rodil, with regard to the windshields, I'm going to tell you one thing: you're the no. When the highway went, it was the knife, and now... yes, no, no, the sign! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When you're born, you're born with a banner and a star flag, and then you have to use it. So, during the '80s, what were they? Against Ence. Now that they've closed Ence, they don't have the toy anymore, because we're going with the windshields, and they come platforms and show off. There you are, people know them. But we're here to solve problems, and that's why people vote for us, because we try; sometimes we solve them and sometimes it's not easy, but at least we try to put solutions. And today in this law we try to offer a solution that will mitigate the impact of the price increase on the construction of public works. Because I don't know if you know that since the middle of 2020 raw materials have experienced an unabated increase — steel, oil -- and there's a problem in building, and there's a problem in public works. Well, we are promoting a measure to respond to the situation generated by this material crisis, which is jeopardizing the viability of public works promoted by the Autonomic Administration. And bring solutions to this problem of the material crisis that the Government of Spain had to promote, but since we do not have the Government of Spain, which is missing, which we do not know very well what it is... No, of course, you defend him because you put Mr. Sánchez there and now you're going to support his budgets... Oh, no, don't support him, how is that? [[Murmurs.]] A critical abstention. Well, I was saying that in other countries, like France or Italy, if they've done something about the material crisis, not in Spain, we're on other things. Well, in Galicia we're going to try to provide a solution to this problem that we understand is important. And we can hardly accept your amendments, because your amendments are in the direction that is contrary to what our project is about. Our project is to lower taxes, and you propose to raise taxes. We cannot accept the amendments of the BNG, for very conservative—conservatives of " Vascian Christian Democracy"—who want to sell us here to Mrs. Rodil, because they intend to raise the IRPF, raise the tax of successions and prayers, create a tax on large commercial surfaces—Mr. Rodil, that the large commercial surfaces that opened up in Galicia were under the baton of the Nationalist Block Industry Counsellor, all licensed by his time of government—create the tax of empty housing by reproducing the Catalan model. Of course, today you didn't come here to tell us: no, attention, it's for legal people; not today. He already said it in committee and he was explained to you, Mrs. Rodil, that one thing is the great tenors and another is the legal people. You copy the Catalan tax, which no longer puts rental housing on the market, no, that's false; because in Catalonia, Barcelona is specifically the city of Spain where there are most occupation crimes, and they have that tax. Which encourages people to put more housing on the market?, why?, so they're busy? No, ladies. The wind cannon, which you change completely improvisedly, without setting a specific tax type, without any previous analysis. They don't justify calculations or where tax quotas are coming from, whether they're affected or not by the environment. You are able to say one thing and the opposite at the same time, you are able to criticize the permissiveness of the wind sector and also criticize the moratorium. It's all worth everything to you. I insist: the only thing they want is not to be able to keep these platforms on the street to continue criticizing the People's Party Government. And we can't support the Socialist Party's measures either, because they're also on that line. In Amendment No 2, for example, they propose limits to the application of tax deductions for numerous families and for birth and adoption of children. Mr. Francisco, a large family is three children, or two if one of them has a disability. Well, we can't agree with that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed changed questions of silence because we are in an exceptional situation. We lower taxes to allow families more liquidity at a time when people are going through it and need liquidity. We take urgent measures to alleviate the shortage of medical professionals in primary care. We introduced legal measures in the regulation of the wind sector to continue with an orderly planning. We've tried one last deal in the field of wind, in order to facilitate access to cheap and green energy for electro-intensive companies. The central government doesn't provide solutions and from Galicia we try to put our big sandstone and try to put some solution. You don't want to collaborate on the contribution of solutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u28	...for they are at your right. In short, this law is directed to address the most important problems of today's Galician society. You can listen to people and meet their needs, or, as the opposition does, follow their political dogmas and meet their party needs. We will continue to attend to Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We shall therefore vote on this legislative text. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u30	We begin by voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia not incorporated into the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farm and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 40; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u31	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galego Nationalist Block not incorporated into the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u32	And now we are voting on the Commission's statement. We vote. Voting of the compromise text of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. Consequently, the Commission's Ditame is approved and consequently the Law is approved on tax and administrative measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u33	We continue with item 3 on the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the conclusions reached by the Social Security Advisory Committee establishing the new model of long-term care in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u34	In order to formulate this audience, the Social Policy Advisor, Ms. Fabiola García Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The vocation of constant improvement is inscribed in the DNA of the human species. We always try to go one step further, get a little higher or make things better and better. People are unconformists by nature. Let me, as far as I'm from where I'm from and find myself where I am, make a special mention to the Greek people. We're short-lived people in adversity, defined by the way we overcome them. Galicia has always known to leave aside the sovereignty that, by denying existence itself, sometimes prevents seeing defects and that these effects or defects are corrected. Galicia is a self-critic community that understands that the best way to move on the road is to remember those places where we met earlier. At the end of all the Ways, right here, in the city of Santiago de Compostela, one of the best examples of this spirit of overcoming continues that has always characterized us to the Greeks and to the Greeks. The cathedral of Santiago was at the beginning of the 18th century a Romanesque building with five hundred years of history; a solid, robust and beautiful temple. But the Greeks at that time observed that the facade, including Gloria's impressive Portico, was worn out because of the rain and the wind. So in 1750 a new facade was built in the square of the Oberdoiro, the work of the architect Casas Nuvoa, because the old Romanesque cathedral needed a complement to continue fulfilling its function. The path of self-existence and constant improvement continue to our times. Between 2009 and last year the cathedral underwent a total regeneration to protect its structure, to enhance its beauty and also to perfect a building that is so emblematic precisely because it never stopped changing. This comprehensive reform has also been done as if the important things must be done, with close institutional cooperation. When the Greeks believe in something we don't leave it frozen in time, we rework it, update it and adapt it to new times, and not because the previous one doesn't serve, but precisely because to continue serving it needs to be improved and reformed. Like our cathedral, residences for older people have been evolving throughout their history. At first they were charity centers for older people who were homeless, then they were semihospital spaces for chronic patients and then something similar to hotels for older people who didn't want to live alone. Changes in the conception of what must be a residence would make many very proud people feel, because it's an almost perfect image of the dialectical method that some of you know: after each thesis came their own anticipation, and start again. What we want now is to finally achieve the synthesis. As in his first era, residences must primarily accommodate people who have no one to care for them, as is done through the Social Emergency Protocol. As in his second era, residences must provide basic health care to their users, since most of them suffer from age-specific shocks. And as in his third era, residences must be cozy and warm, the most similar to their homes. Galician residences of the future must integrate all the experience accumulated over all these decades, but they must also correct their dysfunctions, which have been detected over time. Over the past two years, senior residences have been subjected to unprecedented internal and external pressure in Galicia but also in the rest of the world. Internally because these centers are not designed to withstand a pandemic of infectious disease of this caliber. And external pressure also because the residences, which are always used to working with discretion, were suddenly seen located in the center of the public agenda. During the pandemic the world's concern turned to older people. We perceive with boldness how vulnerable they were and we see how the places where they lived, such as residences, had gathered a large number of contagions. The residents and their families have gone through moments of great pain. In the midst of a global crisis, socio-sanitary centers have lived the most complicated months of their history. And in this unprecedented context, under this perfect storm, Galicia acted as the situation demanded it, with agility and also with force. We were agile and powerful when we launched Europe's first integrated residences for the older people who were infected in its residential center. We were agile and hardy in intervening private residences when the Central Government legally authorized this possibility. It's a formula that we used up to fourteen times along the pandemic, whenever necessary. We were axile and powerful when performing diagnostic tests with the highest frequency, complementing PCRs with antigen tests. They've been there for two and up to three kids a week. We were axile and hardy prioritising residences at the time of receiving the vaccine, at the first two doses, and also at this booster dose. The largest residents have been from the beginning of vaccination the best protected people from all over Galicia. That was the beginning of the end of the maximum alert state in the centers. We were axile and powerful when we set specific protocols for the centers from the first compases of the pandemic. We've been making more or less flexible and more or less strict protocols depending on the evolution of the epidemiological situation. The performance of the residences and the board of Galicia had a clear purpose: to safeguard the health of residents, always working to contain the contagions, but, at the same time, to ensure their emotional well-being, being strictly proportionate and prudent whenever measures were taken in residential centers. We didn't listen to how many sirens demanded to completely close the larger residences every time the infections grew, because that would completely isolate the older people. Nor do we listen to those who cried for a summary and generalized intervention of all private residences, the vast majority who worked well and of that minority who should work better. In the residential area, as in all others, Galicia advanced in those months on its own path, on the Friday of the "sentidy", always following the advice of social experts and health experts, and the results were as follows: more than half of the Greek Jericho centers were free of curfew-19 from the beginning of the pandemic until June 30, 2021. Second. In the national context, the impact of the pandemic on the Jericho centers was the second best of the autonomous Spanish communities, only after the Canary Islands. In the period called the second wave, mortality decreased with respect to the first wave, to almost disappear three months after the start of vaccination in the users of the hieriacs. The decline in mortality observed in the second wave with respect to the first suggested that the measures implemented in residences had the desired effect. None of these phrases are mine. These are the findings of the Study on the impact of covid-19 on the socio-sanitary centers of Galicia, prepared by the Preventive Medicine and Public Health Area of the University of Santiago de Compostela. This scientific analysis is already available to all parliamentary groups, as I have undertaken. It's obvious that there are no triumphalisms when it comes to containing the progress of a global pandemic in centres that are particularly vulnerable. But what is required is a study of what has happened -- what has happened -- calmed down and without dogmatism, studying the past to review all that could be done better, analyzing the present to know the specific conditions of the health sector in Galicia and also looking to the future from realism and from experience; properly planning the next steps that must be taken. A task like this must not be undertaken by a government alone, it is neither possible nor desirable. Your leadership must exercise it for those who care every day and for those who heal every day and study older people. We assumed from the beginning the design of the new residence model and said that it should be participatory, consensive and inclusive. With this philosophy, exactly one year ago, on December 21, 2020, the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee was formed for the first time to develop a diagnosis of the care system for older people and also to propose ways of improving. Its members represent in a cross-sectional and plural way all the professional areas involved in senior residences: the medical staff and nursing staff working in residences, such as Dr. Fernando Lamelo, who coordinated health care in all residences in the Coruña area; Dr. Rocío Malfeto, a jeriatric who performed the same work in the area of Lugo; Dr. Raquel Casal, who visited practically all residences where there were the most infected persons; or Edgar Camino, nurse of the Public Residence of Volta do Castro; gerontologists and researchers, such as doctors Miguel Blanco and José Carlos Millán Calenti; social workers and directors of residences, such as Rocío Carbón, Victor Meizoso or Constantio Piñeiro; architects such as Angel Ligero, one of the greatest specialists in Galicia over the structure of residences; and, of course, representatives of the family members of Montse Garcia. I want to thank all of these people once again who totally selflessly spent many hours a day thinking about the residences they themselves could be in, in which we all wanted to grow old. This altruism leaves black on white and, once again, the commitment of the residential sector to its own future and also to the future of older people. It wasn't about designing dwellings thought like we were going to live in a constant pandemic from now on, but rather being better protected if we repeat a disaster like this again. It was not to draw hasty conclusions from the pandemic and merely to make some superficial change, but to take advantage of the consciousness that exists today to finally open a deep reflection that has already lingered for too long. It was not a question of imagining idyllic residences, fairy tale residences, but of mapping from realism a system of attention to our elders that combined quality with accessibility and was adapted to the socio-economic, demographic and geographic reality of our earth. Galicia has achieved in the middle of a pandemic in just twelve months to establish the foundations and structure of the residences of older than the next decades. We can proudly affirm that our community is leading the great reform of residential care in Spain and Europe. A new model developed ambitiously, bold and sensiblely. [[Applause]] The proposal drawn up by the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee is divided into four pillars, corresponding to the main housing improvement vectors. First, the humanization of the treatment and the continuing formation of all professionals of the homes of older people. Secondly, the use of technology's potential to perfect the attention of older people. Thirdly, improvements in the coordination between health and social services; two worlds in Galicia will work together more than ever before. And fourthly, the structural reforms that will begin to be implemented in all the newly built residences. These four pillars in which the conclusions of the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee are structured form the basis of what the residences of the future will be. We will improve it in collaboration with professional schools, and we will also improve it with new approaches, as the sector is embarking on a constant innovation process. The residence is nothing but the residence of the residents, and it must have been for many years. So one of the fundamental lines of work must be that older people feel comfortable in those residences, that fit their preferences and that their voice and that of their families be heard. Our dignity and personality must be respected at all times, we're as old as we are, whether we're dependent or not. From this principle the bloc of measures of humanization and continuing training. First of all, as I've done in this same Chamber a few weeks ago, the new model clears the physical and pharmacological projections, except in extraordinary, justified and always guided by a doctor. Secondly, the residents' exits will also be welcomed, and they will be allowed whenever family members can visit the rooms and eat with their parents and grandparents. Residences are not schools, nor are they prisons; all those time constraints that are not strictly necessary must be eliminated. Thirdly, professionals will develop a plan of activities for each resident who takes into account his or her tastes, his or her preferences, as well as those of his or her family members, and who will help them maintain their quality of life and their good physical and mental form. The residences that are coming will also incorporate to a better extent the opinions of all people who are part of the ecosystem in the center. All residences of more than a hundred squares must have an advisory council with advisory functions, through which they can participate in the centre's own holding company, professionals, residents and families, and we will also advise those smaller residences to incorporate it as well. In addition, an office of care for residents and their families will be set up at an autonomous level. And finally, in the same way that a few weeks ago, we just gave green light to the first socio-health training plan in public centers. Tomorrow all Galician residences will have to have a plan to ensure that their professionals never stop learning. This training will be particularly interesting to train workers in the employment of technologies, which within very little will be routinely used in all residences. During the year 2022 Galicia will transform all major public centers into smart residences, where technological innovation will translate into more well-being for all older people and will also help the workers themselves. In the public system it will have a demonstration function and will exemplify for private centres all the progress that can be made through innovation. The nursing pass will evolve with the introduction of a multiparametric monitor to save time in procedures and transcripts and to devote it to the personalized care of each resident. The rooms will turn into smart rooms, with sensors that warn if the older person has a fall or walks at night, but all of this, of course and of course, with the utmost respect to the privacy of the residents. Residents with some kind of cognitive deterioration can walk with full freedom, with quietness, both within their own center and outside, because we're going to introduce a new tracking system to avoid disorientation. Leisure and communication systems will be installed with their neighbours, both within their own rooms and in their common areas. These advances do not belong to the field of science fiction. Most of them are already operating at the Pilot Public Residence of the Road, with excellent ratings from both residents and workers. Although it sounds like a future perspective, the incorporation of Big Date into the health sector is a matter of the present. Over the past few months, we have been perfecting residential information systems in close collaboration with the Galician Technology Modernization Agency, implementing in all residential centres that have health personnel the latest version of electronic clinical history, which is a more advanced tool than Ianus, and developing an autonomic command board that serves to obtain a faithful picture of the situation of residences at every moment, minute by minute. [[Hcepro]] In this way, not only will professionals have a more comprehensive overview of the circumstances and needs of each user, but also public administrations will have the best information on decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, the user of residences is not only a person who needs to be taken care of, it is also, and in most cases, a chronic patient who requires intensive health care. Over the past few years, in which the care system has experienced exponential growth, the approach to an essential issue has been delayed: how to deal with the relationship with the health system. With the pandemic, the two sectors were forced to stop looking at their faces. The situation required that we move from the simple room to the essential coordination. I want to thank today, with all my heart, for the support of my partner's determination, commitment and height of vision, the health adviser, who is here today, but also of his entire team. They were all the best allies for this socio-sanitary space to become a theory confined solely to expert documents as an increasingly tangible reality. Residences are neither health centres nor must be health centres, but they must ensure that their users have access to top-level health care that, by matters of age and by matters of pathology, these people need and that, also, because they are citizens of full right, with a lifetime behind them, they deserve. These are some of the news that incorporates the new template in the search for this goal. Hospitals will serve medication to all residences of more than ninety squares. This will relieve some of the primary health care pressure, as health center doctors may be released from preparing prescriptions for more than five thousand and five hundred chronic patients. The first intermediate care units will be created in the history of our community. They will take care of the people who are riding between social space and health space, because they have already been discharged from a hospital, but they still require social assistance or because they can resume their own lives and thus avoid permanent entry into a residential center. Although we trust that there are no repeated situations like those that have lived in residences, since responsibility we must put to the worst. We therefore agree with the sector that all centres should have a contingency plan, validated by the Health Council and the Social Policy Council, and also that this plan is known by all professionals, by all family members and by all residents. In these plans, the sectoralization of each centre, the circuits and the minimum stock of the Epi should count on. In addition, you must ensure that your workers are trained on the use of protective material in any event. Finally, for health situations of gravity arising from a residence, like some serious illness of any resident, the new model will offer two very important advances: firstly, the creation of quick ways to access emergencies and also day hospitals. Secondly, the launch of a residential code, at the 061 power station, which will serve as a priority for all emergencies that can be done in the health centres. The fourth and last of the pillars of the document, prepared by the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee and with some sense, has a few of each of the preceding blocks, because it contributes to the quality of life of our elders, because it will be reinforced by the incorporation of technology and will also have a fundamental impact to contain the spread of infectious diseases. I am, of course, talking about the structural requirements that must meet the residences of older people in Galicia in the future. In this respect, improvements must be progressive and must be gradual as well. It's not about demolishing all Galician residences, starting to build them from zero, but it's about starting to create common criteria for the new building centres and also for all the reforms that are being carried out in the existing centres. With these new parameters the concept of residence will give a radical turn, it will be placed on the line of what is being explored in the most advanced countries towards attention to our elders. The main aspect that defines what a home is is intimacy. We live with few people and have, if we want, spaces to be alone. In order to move this into the homes of older people, we want to overcome these kilometre dining rooms, that living rooms are not crowded with people and that the allocation of spaces is in function, only, of the pathology of each resident. The Greek residences will be structured into living units of up to 25 people, selected by their personal preferences rather than by their degree of dependency. These modules will be decorated as users' own homes were, and personnel rotation between different modules will also be minimized to safeguard the privacy of residents and also to promote their confidence. In this same line and in order to favor also the sectorization of centres, if necessary, a module should not be used as a step towards another module, but all modules should have direct access from among the common areas of their own residence. Given that in residences there are many older people who suffer from cognitive deterioration, they can also count on the psychogeriatric module. The seven public centers of integral attention to the older people that we are promoting with the funding of the Amancio Ortega Foundation have already planned to create these types of modules. The residences of Galicia shall have at most six units of cohabitation, six mini-residencies within the residence itself, i.e. with a maximum of 150 squares. On some occasions isolated residences can be derived from isolated residents, and we want to avoid them at all costs. We also understand that the ideal thing is that the residences are integrated into the town of a city, in the center of a town, so that the most autonomous can go out for a walk or have a coffee with total quietness. We will work to raise awareness of the institutions promoting residences and also of the importance of having a suitable location. Ladies and gentlemen, today we present to you this new model of residences which is in dialogue with the sector, which is a pioneer at the national level, but above all it has a clear vocation to endure. The proposals I have just reported to them are translated into legislation and funding. That's what makes the difference between intentions and facts. This new model is not an amendment to the entire care system, because making it would be a lack of respect and a display of ingratitude towards all the professionals of the older residences; these senior residential professionals who at all times, especially the last two years, have given true lessons of humanity, commitment and sacrifice to care for those who have taken care of us. [[Applause]] Your work deserves all the recognition of this House, but also all the recognition of Greek society. What we are presenting today is a detailed proposal, but it is a proposal for consensus; it is an ambitious but realistic proposal; it is self-critical but comprehensive. Like the facade of the opening of the Cathedral of Santiago, this document that we present today is born of a necessity: to protect something of incalculable value, in one case was the Portic of Glory; in this case, the health and well-being of our older people. Just like the summit work of Casas Nuvoa, this socio-sanitary reformulation is not born as a denial of the previous, but as a complement to enhance its virtues and to rectify what was not optimal. Just like the imposing cover that greets us in that large square of Galicia and Europe, the new residence model also seeks to become a symbol, in the emblem of a community that, after its most difficult and darker months, lays the basis for a future where we care for ourselves better, where we protect ourselves better and where we become more and more family. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u36	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u37	It is now the turn of the parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Party, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u38	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Now, that will end the year 2021, let's go back and see that, compared to 2020, the temporal perception of both is completely different. Looks like time hasn't passed the same way. The 2020 time map has been perfectly chronologically sorted since March. Since then, and particularly in that year 2020, it seems that the doors of the oldest residences had lit up to show us what is happening inside them. But the truth is the significant facts that warned that something was not right in the residences happened chronologically long before the covid. More than a decade ago, the workers of Galician residences — now constituted as an association — raised their voice about staff deficits, about breaches of their own regulations and demanded measures from the Greek Government, and found no answer. Year 2017. The Board of Auditors breaks the taboo and opens the doors to the residences to show, through a thorough report, what was going on in Galicia. This report not only made a harsh reality visible, it illuminated the way for the improvement of residential care centres through subsequent proposals; proposals that have not been carried out, Counsellor. Year 2020. The families of the residents are committed to fighting for the rights of their families. The same year, in the middle of the pandemic, a U.S. Attorney's ruling recries to Joine for not inspecting, for nothing more and nothing less than five years, Our Lady of Hope's residence, when they had to do it, at least once a year. 2021. The report by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Galicia alerts that more resources need to be invested in senior residences. In front of this and many other indicative facts in one of the country's oldest autonomous communities, with a high rate of privatization of residential squares and accompanied at the same time by autonomous communities with less inspection technicians, it was clear, Counsellor, that residences in Galicia were not well served. In the face of these circumstances and after the pandemic entered, society itself began to question what model of attention we had for our elders. With this, a social demand was born about a new model of care where the model of residences that deserve older people had been redefined. And to calm down that social alarm, from his counsellor's point of view, over a year ago, the so-called Sociosanitary Committee, which has been kept secret from summary to this day. But even if they had not made it public, neither the work nor the members of that committee until today, made headlines by President Alberto Núñez himself by announcing new macroresidencies of more than one hundred squares, as he has now appointed -150 squares -, giving clues about the new model – or not so new – residential model they want. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have made proposals on this, even if they do not want to hear them, and we will continue to do them, because we want to contribute. And from the beginning, we said that one of the fundamental issues was the human question, the therapeutic power of the word, the active listening; more dialogue with people, more time for workers to stop with their residents. The workers themselves are demanding this question. It's unacceptable that workers don't have time to stop talking to residents, or even that they have to get up at six in the morning for lack of staff, for not having a relief from a partner. It is unacceptable for families to have to manifest themselves, such as in the CRAPD public residence, direct management of the Union, because 200 claims have disappeared against the management of the said centre. [[Applause]] It is unacceptable not to give an answer to these people, Counselor. Is that the communication channel they want to establish with residents or with their own families? Is that the new residence model we want for Galicia? We don't agree. They have to give voice and care for these people. It is unacceptable that there are complaints, for example, about the food that is being given to residents in some centres and that no response has been given from the board itself. It is unacceptable for the Greek Government to speak of a new model of residence and to build macro-residencies of more than a hundred squares. It's unacceptable to wait for years for a residential square and that, when they finally grant you, it's more than a hundred miles from your place of origin. In this kind of question, the debate must be focused. Let's put ourselves in people's shoes. What would we be interested in if the time comes, at a certain age, when we have to enter a residence? From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have made proposals in this regard with key issues: humanizing the context of residence; increasing the inspection staff — we want to know if this is going to happen —; listening to the protagonists, giving them a voice — the decision of the major users of this service is what really matters —; respecting, of course, their privacy; adapting the centres to the people and not the people to the centres; improving the working conditions of the workers and workers in the sector and increasing the staff -- there is no, Counsellor, no technology that ever replaces the voice, the ance, the care and knowledge that the residents have about their residents—; maximizing time-dependence by increasing staff of the dependency assessment teams; establishing the proximity of the residential place granted to the place of origin of the resident; and limiting the number of steps to channel the tendency towards small, more familiar residents. Among other things, these issues, which, in addition, are already being dealt with at the level of the Government of Spain and those which you have not mentioned, even if they are at certain measures you have made. As you know, the Ministry, the Imserso and the National Disability Council, in coordination with the autonomous communities, are already speaking and there are already drafts. As you know, they are also part of this Civil Dialogue Bureau, the Platform for Major and Pensioners, the State Platform for Family Organizations and Residential Users, from which it is, by the way, part of the Galician Federation of Family Associations and Residential Users and the Unit, also the Cermi, Full Inclusion of Intellectual Disability, the World Doctors, the Spanish Society of Hieriatry and Gerontology, the State Association of Directors and Social Services Managers, the General Social Work Council, the CSIC and more the Centre for Human Sciences, among many other social agents, and also the universities themselves, among others. The basis is now being laid not only to propose and guarantee the number of inspectors sufficient to shield the supervision of the centres, but also to make public the annual inspection plans periodically, accessible to the inspections carried out, indicating, inter alia, the identification of the centre to the inspected service, the ownership, the date, the reason for the inspection, its outcome and, where appropriate, the measures taken. This will be one of the keys to Galicia, Counselor, because it is one of the Achilles heels of our system, since we are the second autonomous community that least inspectors have for this task. And that, coupled with an excessively privatized system, endangers the proper supervision of the centers, as the Ourense's own judgment, which I referred to earlier, in relation to Our Lady of Hope. It is also proposed that residential centres be located on the urban floor, thus ensuring access and proximity to social and community spaces. It is also proposed that the centres should not exceed 50 squares, and not 150 of what you were talking about, Counselor. A macroresidence will never be a home. So it can be possible, if we reduce in this sense the new residences, which work as homes, regardless of the smaller living units. Let's not play the game with the macroresidencies of more than a hundred squares excusing ourselves in the coexistence units, Counsellor, because one thing is a unit of coexistence and another is the residential squares of all that has its own residential center. We are also proposing something fundamental: to shield the dignity of treatment, the exercise of people's rights, which receive support in residential centers through personal support plans for the personalization of care, to move forward towards people-centred management, with the preferences and will of the person as to how he wants to live. Let's think about this, it's at stake. And by the way, he spoke before the CRAPD, and he commented that yesterday he had made an important statement, through the Family Association, in which they indicated "imminent cod infection in Galicia's largest residence. The Greek Government will cover up the infection until Wednesday." [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document]] We want to be told that we have a record of the contagions, that the positives will be evacuated to intermediate residences to avoid the brutes, as we have proposed from the Socialist Party throughout the pandemic. Because the pandemic is not over; continue, Counsellor. Let's think about this, the model of care is at stake for older people and dependents over the next few years. It's not just about the older people or their families, but about the whole society, because sooner or later we will arrive -- with luck -- plus or being dependent, we'll need these services and remember what we all have here today and we'll agree: empathy and responsibility, because today it's them and tomorrow we'll be us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Now turn to the Galician Nationalist Block. You have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Because we weren't very clear - we practically didn't know more than the title of the appearance - than you were going to talk about here, I'm already going to ask you for that USC report. We've been waiting for months for a lot of documentation that we haven't been given. Nothing has come to me, and now in the middle of nowhere, nor to the workers of the parliamentary group who are down in the BNG room. If we can, before you're done, let us have a digital version -- let me have it printed -- from that report or study of the USC, I'm going a little happier to go home today. And I say that, as we didn't know very well that I was going to talk about -- all of your lordships will agree with me that the care model goes and must go much further, in their design, in their configuration, of the older residences, but they're very important to us too -- I'm going to try to adapt my intervention a little too now that you explained to us here and basically focus on the new older residence model, which we also have -- and I'm sure that you know it too -- a lot and well worked since the BNG. And although it was a bit veiled its reference to historical materialism and Marxist dialectics, which is always good to bring here, I bring one of the phrases -- they are quite heterodox, I am nothing orthodox -- which, from my point of view, is more interesting to this author and to his scientific thought, which is from Grundisse -- so I say that I am not orthodox -- and that it says that "work is the living and moulding fire; it represents the impermanence of things and their temporality." Marx always places us in the center of the worker and the worker as generators of wealth and engines of history in that Marxist dialectic. You, in your intervention, haven't once mentioned the workers and the workers of the residences, not one, not once! to say whether the ratios will be increased or whether the conditions of work will be improved. [[Applause]] Or, for example, in order not to have professional categories, charging -- like today in the break-up of that new collective agreement in private -- wages below the minimum interprofessional, which is what we have today. And for the people who care for their homes, daycare centers, the homes of older people -- focusing on the homes of older people -- who wakes up, who washes, who gives breakfast, who cares, who gives noodles, kisses and accompanies, they are workers and workers, who would deserve the first in that new model is a little bit more respect and better working conditions. [[Applause]] I, with all that we have been living and debating in this country, especially with all that we have been living in this country, will not deny you that you know me quite a little bit - I want to think that today you gave us such a brief presentation, or very above - which you just moved us on to the new model of residences. There are questions in which we agree and that in the Proposal for a Welsh residency that will bring our group in the next session in January, we also incorporate; some more detailed, perhaps from another perspective, but, well, there are points in which we can — not many, in what you said today — agree that they progress in what we understand is a new model that must prevail in the homes of older people in our country, but there are others that I tell you that, later — I insist — of everything we have lived, that you want to circumscribe the new model of residences to buildings that are going to be raised uniquely and exclusively, I ask myself: and the 21,944 people who are in the residences of older today? Because we have 21,944 public, private, concerted and concessional squares in our country, which I say: in what conditions are they?, in what conditions? [[Applause]] I think this is the question to be asked today: in what conditions do we want them to be living? I actually agree that the paradigm shift, the model change, must start from a completely change of perspective of things. We must not adapt people to space, but spaces to people and, above all, we must change the prism in a central element, and it is in which there is to change that superpaternalist, very, very paternalist model, that people are merely receivers of services, to become the center of public policies, subjects of rights — that we are. I agree with you there. It is equal to the age we are; we are, both children and older, subjects of rights, and we ourselves have, if we have not suspended our abilities, the ability and the right to decide on our own lives, and, of course, that ability to participate is not confined to residences of more than 100 places. Why would participation councils -- or what we call them -- be only mandatory for more than a hundred residences? Why not in a 50? What happens, if I'm in a 25th or older house, I have no voice or vote or participation tools to decide about my life? After all, it's what we're talking about, to decide how I want to be careful, how I want to be treated, or how I think care should be organized, activities and, in general, my life. So, for us, there is one element, which is the people at the center of politics, people as the central element of that new model of residence; that shift from paradigm to a more right-wing and less-assisted position, and then, of course, move on to a more humane model, much, much more humane, which also responds to the fundamental rights of people. He said, the new residence model won't allow a person to be subjected to an irregularly mechanical suggestion. Of course, that's illegal. You have to be perfectly prescribed medicine, authorized and signed by an optional staff, limit yourself to a very specific period of time, and I have to authorize you, if I am in my full capacity, or the person who has my custody, in case you're being protected. And today in the residences that the Galician Union has, which are granted, in concert with the Galician Union, there are people who are tied - I! - without complying with the regulatory procedure. You know that as well as I do, because you have the inspection records and the sanctioning records we could -- with a lot of difficulty -- consult in Galician Union, and they haven't done anything. [[Applause]] That seems to me to be a violation of human rights, of fundamental rights. We insist on our proposal for a residency law: it must be made available to the judicial authorities - we are not judges - so they can decide. [[Applause]] We're talking about the dimension, you've also talked about architecture... excuse me, if I'm going a bit disillusioned, but I think it's fair and what we deserve today, which is to talk specifically about this, and to talk in detail about the issues that came out. You were talking about a limitation. We also set it up in the Galician Residence Bill. You were talking about 150 squares and 6 units of cohabitation at a peak of 25. We say 100 squares -- I'm telling you now, the figure is not arbitrary, it responds to a criterion; it's opinable, obviously, but it responds to a criterion -- with different -- of course, it's not the same as an autonomous person as a dependent person. The care they need is not the same, nor the professional support and support they need. What do we say?: a top of 100; therefore, 4 units of coexistence of 25. But, look! let's lower that unit of coexistence to 20 squares when we talk about dependent people, because there are also, as in the Lord's vineyard, everything: people who have simply a physical deterioration that makes it very difficult for them, who need support to shower, to have lunch, to dress up... but, well, they are people who are in their full psychological capacities; we can have people with cognitive impairment who have even lost the ability to decide about their own life; or people who have to go back to or make postural changes every time they prescribe medicine. We cannot treat — I insist — all people alike, because we also know that people, whenever they have the capacity and possibility, will choose to stay at home and will prefer a home care rather than a residence. What ends up being the residence? In many cases, the necessary service that people need with cognitive deterioration and high dependence, which also requires thinking about ratios. Why do we say 100 at most? Because the data that taught us to hide -- and these are official data, I don't make anything up -- everyone who made the board of Galicia public, say that where it most impacted, precisely, in the major centers, specifically in those over 100 squares. It seems to us that 100 squares, with units of coexistence — I insist — of a peak of 25 or 20 — depending on whether we speak of autonomous or dependent people — are good at ordering what must also be a nearby, decentralized, and, above all, Greek residence system that approaches the population that needs it, to their homes, to avoid the uprooting. I agree with something that says, they're not prisons. Dispersion, even for the population that is deprived of liberty - and look!, a person who is in a residence is not deprived of freedom, has the right to enter and exit whenever you want - for people who are under the judicial authorities, who are deprived of liberty, is condemned, is forbidden; that is, only such dispersion is allowed in certain very specific cases. What we have today is that, in the absence of sufficient squares and centers with free public squares, there are people who end up in the other corner of the country in order to be able to access a resource they have the right and they need. So, that, inevitably, in addition to talking about staff ratios, maximum number of squares, what it requires us to do is to talk about how many centres in this country will be built in the future to guarantee the fundamental right of any Welshman and Welshman to be able to access this social resource, this social service, when he needs and has the right to it. [[Applause]] I don't have any more time, I'd be here all afternoon. We have a law with four titles and forty articles that was very worked, which was also very consensual and that was also very dialogueal. I am sure you will continue to receive contributions until January, and we will bring it to this House for a fundamental question — and I will end with this, indeed —: because today we are talking about a sector, such as that of residences, which is regulated by an order, a 1996 order -- it is not a decree, not a law — and a very generic law, like that of social services in Galicia in 2008. We cannot have a sector of this importance, of this social and human importance in our country, with that level of deregulation. That's why we believe that what Galicia needs to get started is to get us to work, dialogue and consensus on a Welsh residency law, and we also understand that the proposed law that BNG will bring about might be a good starting point for doing that work. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] And now the turn of the People's Party. Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u42	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I want to start congratulating the counselor. I sincerely say this because I think it was a content appearance, with concrete measures, explaining which are the ways in which the future of the Welsh residential system has to go about providing the new service model. I, ladies and gentlemen, am part of a political organization that has always enjoyed the majority support of the majors; a reality that has often been used as an accusation by many members of the opposition and also cause of chance on many other occasions, but that for the People's Party of Galicia has always been a great honor. An honor to which we try to correspond by constantly seeking to improve the way of life of those we ought and which has led us to exponentially increase the public resources devoted to their well-being. This increase will take place in accordance with your preferences. We all know that most of the Greeks prefer to stay in their homes, and that's why we have the best ratio of Spain in the home aid service, so we increase the day centers of the 983 squares that we find when we arrive to the Government at 3,367 that currently exist, or that's why we create figures like that of the House of Major, which today serves 415 larger in the rural of Greece, because we have to provide services in the vital environment of the largest. When this is not possible, there is a need to look for an alternative home, a home capable of meeting the specific needs of the larger ones, and in that we also work, increasing the residential squares, of the 5,500 that we found up to the current 8,026, without counting those 900 new squares that we want to increase in the seven cities, specifically in Ourense, if you allow them at any time, and also prioritising that these residences were homes and not medical centers. I think it is obvious that the German residential system has surpassed the pandemic better than most autonomous communities, and this despite the fact that nobody was prepared for a pandemic of these characteristics, considering also that there was an absolute lack of margin of reaction due to the unquestionable failure of our country's epidemiological alert system and, on many occasions, especially at first, lack of means for the absolute failure of the centralization of purchases assumed by the central government and that put us on the line of global purchasing at a time of complete saturation of the market. The situation I'm describing was common to all the autonomous communities, but I think the result is much better in Galicia, to the point that the survival rate in the Welsh residences is the best in peninsula Spain, which is only surpassed by the Canary Islands. Attributing to the luck or chance the best behavior of the Welsh residences is a frivolity, and, in addition to this, if allowed, a lack of respect to the professionals who have made it possible; the professionals, by the way, of the public residences and private residences, because I believe that the residents staff turned to protecting the lives of the elderly, those who attended a very complicated situation, not knowing what were the ways of infection and the overall behavior of the virus. Like the medical staff, trying to cure an unknown disease for which there was no immunity, no vaccines, no known treatment. And I think it must also be acknowledged that thanks to the management of the Galician board and the collaboration it has found, to the whole of the Galician society, that it has had a behavior I think it exemplary and I also want to say -- and I want to value it here -- of the Welsh companies, that at a time of greatest difficulty they have turned to helping through equipment prayer, through all the assistance to get those equipment and to transport them, and we all hear and we know the fundamental importance of the planes that it has made available, for example, Index, the Brothers Rivera group and all the logistics platforms that have been made available to the public health system. So when you insist that this crisis comes out thanks to the public, you have to say, no, thanks to the collaboration of the public and the private, because, fortunately, in this country the whole of citizenship, the set of productive fabric, has been up to the circumstances, and it's not hard to say thank you, thanks to everyone who collaborated in relieving this country's most difficult situation in decades. [[Applause]] This better behaviour than he was talking about the residences in Greece does not imply that the model should not be analyzed, improved, renewed, and therefore Junta has committed itself to the necessary process of updating residences, taking advantage of, by the way, decades of valuable experience, which must be added to the new teachings learned during the pandemic, following that Hegelian method of what Mrs. Rodil so much liked. That commitment was materialized in several decisions. The first, in the creation of the General Directorate for Integral Sociosanitary Care, which aims to promote reforms in the model and to permeabilize the relationship in the social and health fields. The creation of the Study Commission in the Galician Parliament, where there were more than 50 appearances, dozens of reports and hundreds of documents of all kinds and all sources. The commitment also to the demand for the active involvement of representatives of the different groups, which were integrated into an advisory committee that today offers its first fruits. I also call for the cooperation of the public university in this report, which we are now — it seems — with the parliamentary groups. And by holding our hand, by listening to society and by seeking agreements of broad consensus, such as those collected, by the way, in the conclusions of the Reactivation Commission and those we still open - some, of course, surprisingly - because we already have several agreements, for example, in the improvement of the services that have to monitor the enforcement of legality in residences and inspection services, and we continue to repeatedly mention them as if we have not already had an agreement in that sense. Today, by the way, we talked about improving challenges as well as improving the staffing of the technical means that they're going to have to do better that function. The counselor, as I said, presented today the first results of this collective reflection, and I think they should be received with respect which they deserve for many reasons; and if not received, at least listened. I think we should make it easier, in addition to the documentation we're asking for, a copy of the advisor's intervention, because I have a feeling that some things were either misunderstood or directly ignored. But I believe that this deserves respect sincerely, because it is the fruit of the selfless work of many people, because it is fruit of the sum of the many knowledges and experiences, both in the professional field and in the personal sphere, of those people incorporated into that committee, because it reconciles the ideas made from different optics and with different personal perceptions of each of their members and because it has brought concrete, feasible solutions and I believe that economically sustainable, alienated from the demagogy of certain promises we have been here hearing for a long time that we all know impossible. I heard there was a need to improve listening to the residents and I also heard the counselor talk about these counsellors in their own homes. Well, that's what they believe. Why are they becoming mandatory in the big ones? Home! It's obvious, because in small children the treatment is much more direct and the relationship is much more fluid; that seems to be quite obvious. Regarding the inspection improvements they were talking about, I tell them they've already been agreed, and today we've been talking about a permanent monitoring of the residences themselves, which I think will also facilitate this work. It was said here that we have one of Spain's worst personnel ratios. It's not true. That's not true! Look at the data published this week by the newspaper El País. They have the worst ratio Asturias, Cataluña, Extremadura, Madrid, Aragon, Canaryes... we'll be serious about these things please, Your Honor, I'd ask you. It was said here that they talked only about new buildings. It's not true, it has been said that there has to be a progressive implantation in those residences that are already existing. And it was also mentioned that we didn't address the workers. I think you should also talk about residential workers. Because, when it comes to replacing current residences with a 100 percent public model, they should explain to the workers that they are going to go through with their jobs; or tell them whether they will do as they did in other sectors where they were promised a thousand times that they would be incorporated as officials through a process of functionalization of those strangers that they so much like to do to the bipartisans and that they never become concrete. I think that would be important to say too. Look, a few months ago Galicia moved forward to announce the piers of a new model of socio-health care, and today Galicia is joining again by concreteizing the measures that develop those piers. And what we have to ask ourselves is whether we're going to count on your support this time or not. I am very concerned, because - I have to say so, Counselor - during his speech I observed how Mrs. Rodil repeatedly did gestures of consent because I think we coincided with many measures that you announced yesterday, in a very respectable exercise of political tactics, although to me it seems to be of little use, right? But I'm really telling you, I think we've agreed on a lot of things and I think there's room for improvement. I invite them to make those approaches. We've been asking for them for a long time, and frankly, we've received very, very, very little. In any case, there might be some adjustment questions that we can all be sure to improve, but I think the document that has been presented here today and I think the proposals that have been made here today are very reasonable, I think they have been made quite in detail and I think they respond to general considerations that we all share. Because I heard Mrs. Ortega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u43	You have to finish, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u44	...to criticise very much this, when they are frankly largely quite consistent with some announcements that you made -- much more vague, that's true -- the central government itself, by setting an example. And so I think here you have to replace the monologue with dialogue, which is what you're doing permanently, and you don't come here to teach lessons, do you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u45	You have to finish, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u46	...Yes, I'm done now, President—to bring this one... On today's day, I wouldn't pay them even one of the residences that you manage, not one of them. I think that's a demagogy exercise that will contribute little by little to the well-being of our elders. So what I ask for is rationality, a little collaboration and that, among all, finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u47	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u48	...we find out what they're asking us to do: social and health services that are much more humane...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u50	...and much more prepared for any continence than in the future. No more congratulations and congratulations, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u51	Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u52	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Ortega, you're talking about the number of residential squares and we're going to build macroresidencies. Tell me where? Because all residences planned for Galician Union range from 120 to 150 squares. There is no residence in Galicia that will build the board of Galicia or through the Amancio Ortega Foundation that exceeds the 150 residential squares. You say we're hiding in the unit of cohabitation. But if we're not asking for the sector! If the residents ask us!, they want to be with other family members who are inside their own residence, who want to be with their colleagues, who want to be in smaller units, who want to have a closer relationship with their own professionals. You, Mrs. Ortega, will not come here to teach anything. This new socio-health model in Galicia made it the sector, made the residential workers, made the family members of the residences, made the university students, and made them users of their own residence, who were with each and every one of us. So I once again want to thank this Sociosanitary Advisory Committee, which has been working tirelessly for 12 months to create a new residential model in Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodil, I'm really glad. I'm glad that we agree with many of the piers that guide this new model of residences in Galicia, because, as I read in the press today, you propose that the oldest residences of the future contain with a decoration that reminds all older people of their own home; you propose living units of 25 people; you try to build these residences in the center of a village, in the center of a village; you also say that this model should be applied to the private... because it is less bad that you also have to apply to the private! that you always proposed a summary intervention of all residences. I, from what I see for now, the lines that you propose are exactly a picture of Galicia's new residence model. But that makes me glad and, of course, I'm sure you'll also take the opportunity to give that new model, that proposal for a residence law, some nationalist brush, but I'm convinced that in most of the pieres that you've proposed to agree with. You also speak, Mrs. Rodil, of the licensed residences, of external management residences, which manages the private company. What do residences refer to, do residences that when you ruled -- or were governing the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party -- left the private company armoured? In the House of Mayors Larax, Quiroga, Viana do Bolo, Castro de Rey's, Bande's residence...? You were the ones who outsourced all those senior residences. Look, Mrs. Rodil, you're also talking about the investigation and the prosecutor's office in the residences. You say there are people who are in inhumane situations and that there are residences where residents themselves have movement restrictions without a medical pattern. Look, Mrs. Rodil, I really hope you're not questioning the impeccable work of all the inspectors in Galicia. All the inspectors who attend a residence, if they see that there's a person who doesn't get a good deal, they immediately sanction that residential center. [[Applause]] And if it happened a few months ago in a center in the province of Lugo, it goes to the Inspectorate and, as you found out that the deal was inhuman - I suppose you know the provincial lady - immediately, in a matter of minutes, it closed that residence, took all the residents out of there and we sent them to the HULA for a medical trial and they were checked and reviewed by all the medical staff. Of course that was also transferred to the Prosecutor's Office so that with the utmost penalty, that residence and all the people who were working there. In no case are we going to admit no inhumane treatment to anyone in Galicia, nor within the residences, nor outside the residences. [[Applause]] And look, Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Ortega, you're talking about a lot of older people and families who have to travel hundreds of miles to get to the residence where their parents or grandparents are. I hope they don't talk about people from the province of Ourense, where you are, Mrs Ortega, because you in Ourense said no, no, no, and for the fourth time they said no, to the construction of a public residence in the center of Ourense. But while you say no to Ourense, we say yes to Ourense, yes to the creation of 120 public squares, yes to the investment by the 12 million euro Amancio Ortega Foundation; yes to all those workers, 110, who will be able to work in that residential center. If those Ourense neighbors! [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Ortega, they're not going to stop the Galician board because we're going to continue working for all the majors in Galicia; we're going to continue working for them and their families. Because in terms of aging one of the greatest challenges that Galicia has to face, but what we also have to face from many other countries in Europe, is to ensure that all these older people are free to choose freely where and how they want to go through this new stage of their life, whatever their preferences or their personal circumstances. The truth is that in this audience I have focused on residential care because it is precisely that area in which I have been working more intensively in the last 12 months the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee. But our commitment for long-term care also includes that kind of service that our greatest elders in Galicia, the home-help service, are to be cared for by professionals in their own home. This, of course, ladies and gentlemen, is not a path we started yesterday. This is a path in which we have been working for many years, specifically twelve, since 2009; twelve years in which the Galician Union doubled the public residential squares, multiplied by 4 the number of public squares in day centers, multiplied by 16 the number of people attended through the home aid service. When you ruled, there were 1,500 older people in Galicia cared for through the SAF. Today, about the end of the year 2021, about to enter 2022, 24,000 Galicians receive professional care in their own home. [[Applause]] Today in Galicia 94% of the seniors who apply for dependency already count on their provision and service. But we don't comply, we're going to continue to improve, we're going to continue to apply that shock plan that we launched in May of the same year, we're going to reduce half the waiting times, we're going to simplify all the administrative procedures, we're going to continue to increase the number of assessors in Galicia, we're going to continue to open more and more day care resources in our rural home through the largest houses, 100 percent free for our seniors, we're going to resume in 2022 the care bus door-to-door, which traveled 20 municipalities in Galicia in 2019 and will travel all, all the municipalities of Galicia, except the big cities, in 2022, with free services of philosophy, audiometry and memory stimulation for our largest municipalities who live in the smaller cities. We're going to continue extending the network, the advanced teleassistation, so that older people feel safe in their own home. We will continue to extend the home aid service, also improving funding through this agreement with Fegamp, increasing the hour price, 11 euros per hour this year 2021, with retroactive effects from 1 January; 11.5 euros in 2023; 12 euros in 2024. It's just 70 million euros of increase in the home aid service and 101 million euros we're going to use this service next year 2022 to care for the older people, those people who worked tirelessly for Galicia that we have today. And of course we're going to continue working to create new centers and open new public squares for the majors in the seven big cities, except in Ourense, if you leave us, because there they voted for the fourth time not to build a public residence. But yes in the other six cities of Galicia. Ninety public residential care squares in residences that will be referred to at European level: the new residence of Barba, the new residence of Antas de Ulla, the new residence of Cerdedo-Cotobade. We must continue to work among all to address aging because it is one of the main challenges facing Western countries. Of course, here in Galicia I think we can have a pretty high head, because Galicia is giving the answer this situation needs. Of course we're going to keep working, but we're going to keep doing it with care, with a short, long look, because that's how we think you can get away. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u53	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u54	Thank you, President. I don't think you've understood me well, Counselor, but I'm telling you. I told you that one thing is the squares of a residential center and another, logically, the units of cohabitation. We believe that the number of residential squares has to be smaller in order to really be a home. And that doesn't mean it's independent of the units of cohabitation, of which the government itself has spoken at the state level for months, as you well know. You're right about one thing, Counselor. I won't teach you lessons, but you won't teach me, either. Because look, you're the one who questions inspection technicians because they're overburdened by their responsibility, because you're an adviser in that legislation, but you've also been in the past, and you've also previously been CEO of Majors, and they didn't increase, as required by the number of inspection technicians, to avoid being overburdened. You are the one who questions the workers themselves in the sector, because, very good words, but soon you don't listen to them, you don't meet them, to know what are the issues that concern them right now at work and that directly affect the well-being of older people. Nor does it speak of increasing the number of professionals in residences, which is ultimately the most important. You question even the Board of Auditors, when you have not moved a finger before your warnings. But besides, you question your own family and residents, when you hide more than 200 complaints about CRAPD's residence, public residence, which is in a drawer, and doesn't give the answer, you haven't said anything about it. He didn't say anything - I hope then, in the next shift, do it - if there are any contagions at present in that residence and if there are going to be an evacuation protocol for these infected people to avoid the grobes, as we said, that for that are the integrated residences, of which you always claim here, but you have to use them; not always have to be the residence itself, but they have to be used. I also agree with Mr Pazos on a matter, in which there is indeed to thank the workers of the centres, the workers of the sector, of course, also the private sector's prayers -- why not say so -- and all this despite the desire of the Greek Government. Because they didn't act with transparency all this time, in addition to silencing their own data of contagions and deaths by each residential center and using data of contagion, of the good results obtained by the centres for persons with disabilities, to mix them with those of residences and so to bring them down and so to the public, in the face of the social alarm that was being generated about the elderly residences; the issue that bothered — you know, Counsellor — and much, in the field of disability. Because their good results have not been the result of chance, they have been the fruit of very good work and also of an increase of resources of more than one and a half million euros, which is an overcost that is claiming your advice for offering direct competences from your department and of what you are not responding to. We would also like you to offer an answer to this question. It's time to bet on the resources existing in the service portfolio itself, because we also agree on the question that older people want to avoid as much as possible, logically, institutionalization and entering a residence. They want to stay in their homes, that's right. It's time to bet on the resources existing in the service portfolio itself, depending, such as the personal assistant, the SAF, day centers, the librarianship in the family environment, the release of the family members who perform the role of caregivers, the remote assistance and a serious plan to boost resources against unwanted loneliness. We have to revitalize, push and reconceptualize these resources from a gender perspective to rebalance care, starting that people prefer, as they say, to stay in their homes, but shielding people's rights when they opt for a higher residence and listening to the protagonists, listening to the sector, and of course families, not closing their eyes when there are complaints that are not answered, Counsellor. We need to humanize the residential context, increase the inspection staff, listen to the protagonists, give voice to the biggest users, improve the working conditions of the workers and workers in the sector, increase the staff... will you do it, Counsellor, within this new model you are presenting to us? We have to speed up times in real dependency, which you just announced, but we'll see the results. We would also like to know how much dependence rating teams will increase exactly, and establish the proximity of the residential square over the place of origin. It doesn't make sense that they give me a square 100 kilometers, that emotional displacement of people in their surroundings. We need to establish and limit the number of squares to redirect the trend towards smaller and family residences. This is what the sector is asking for, the families, the protagonists, the older people. This is what we have to offer to society, and I repeat, to society as a whole, because we are all involved. Today it's them and tomorrow it'll be us. It's a question of society as a whole, and we have to get involved in solving this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u55	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u56	Thank you, President. I understand it's a lot easier to come here and put the whole block to blame. Twelve years of absolute majority and the fault of everything is neither Yoko Ono nor the cha-cha-cha-cha, it has the BNG. I understand that it's much easier than coming here to talk a little bit about the important thing. We made the effort to focus on what you said, to make approaches, contributions, to make reflections with games and to try to get out of here, at least with something clearer. But, of course, there's no more blind than what you don't want to see or deafer than what you don't want to hear. You came here, gave the press round -- which I think is great -- and attacked the block with which it happened. And that's great not to talk about basically what we're formulating. It's so important to put women... well, people -- women too, of course; it's the perspective of gender, but people -- at the center of politics and at the centre of the new design of the residence model that you have to operate in our country like to talk about the working conditions of the people who care. And I'm not just talking about what's the least. Today the minimum is 0.20 or 035, depending on whether we talk about modules of autonomous people or dependent people. So it's as important as talking about how we calculated, how we calculated those personal ratios. Because today -- which we know is thanks to the inspection records, few, that let us see, and all the conversations we've had -- what we know is that even the cook gets into the account of the staff's direct attention ratio. A cook who performs a fundamental function is technical personnel or general service staff, which is considered appropriate, but not direct attention. Direct-care staff are the people who are grocers, nursing assistants or nurses, who are the ones who care, raise, dress up, feed and supply medication when it's appropriate. How do we calculate those minimums? For we, in the motion for a Welsh residency law - which we will bring here and that we understand and insist on what it is right at this moment - distinguish precisely professional categories in that calculation; not only do people dependent on autonomous people, but we differentiate direct attention; that is, people are direct attention, that training is required for direct care personnel, who are general service staff, who are technical staff and who occupy leadership functions. And we set up a calculation and a calculation in function, I insist, not only of the number of residents, but also of the profile of those users, different for those who directly care for people and those who perform other functions. It's as important as talking... to me what gives me is a lot of sadness, because I understand it's easy here, because it's a total of 30 minutes, we talk and we ventilate it; everyone goes to their home, and here is peace and then glory. I know it's easy to come here and tell me that I accuse the inspectors, the workers who are in the senior residences... that's the easy thing. As well as saying that there are no doctors, and then we're against the medical staff. That's the easy thing to not want to see; it's trying to cover the sun with a finger, not want to see the problem. And what do we say? That we have to guarantee a fundamental right that can sometimes be a little unnoticed or in a corner, such as the right of information and the right of transparency, which is fundamental in democratic societies. And why do I say this? Because we are another of the elements that is central, from our point of view, to the new model of residences, given that here it operates at all, is that there is especially a minimal public network, that there are many, many private squares, that there are other concerteds and that there are other concessionaires. All laws, as well as social services that operate in all public services, meet those that are private, public or concerted. In this country there is no law for each other; there is a law for everyone, and especially when we talk about people's attention. What do we say? What's going on today -- and we know about the work we've done, and it's cost a lot of access to the sanctioning records and inspection records -- is that people don't even know if their ratios are met or not met, but neither do users often nor do workers, nor of course this House, the legislative power and parliamentary groups that we integrate. And what do we defend from the BNG - which I think is important and interesting to debate this -? Well, something that's not new and what we'd be pioneers -- at least in the Spanish state, I don't have the slightest doubt, but also in Europe -- What does the German model do -- because it has to do with everything in this life, what we like and what we don't like, and work on different models, which the wheel has a lot to make up --? What does the German model do? What do we propose since the BNG on our proposal? That it has to be compulsory to publish and guarantee public access to inspection records and sanctioning records, because all society -- public administrations, of course, this legislative power already has or what to say, but above all family persons, users and those who aspire to enter a residence, be of the title that is -- you have the right to know whether you comply with labour rights, whether you comply with the personal ratios. [[Applause]] And, above all, there's also one element that is fundamental to us: what can't be what's going on right now is that it's cheaper to pay the fine than to hire staff. It's cheaper to pay for what he tells you or takes the bill at the end of the entire processing process, the corresponding economic penalty, than to hire a direct-care worker 24 hours when it has to be operated in a residence. I think there's going to be enough time for us to deal with this issue. And what I'm asking you to do is to come and pass in accordance with the Rules of the House, that new model of residence, just as you will, when you correspond, in the next session period, to the BNG with the Welsh Residential Bill. Bring it to the House if you really want the groups to make proposals and we can reach a consensus. On the other hand, we really don't have a legislative power to make you press conference or press conference. [[Applause]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was wondering in the previous intervention if we would count on the opposition's collaboration this time. It doesn't look good. I really invite them to reflect. They've already positioned themselves against the homes of the eldest, against the nesting houses, against the deployment of the Telea, and now they're talking about the implementation of the robotics... I really don't understand what you want. I feel like any day they're going to complain that there are cranes to help move patients because it's better to do it by the old method. It seems to us that no, it seems to us that it is not serious and that it would be quite positive for you to abandon your ideological prejudices to start making a serious formulation, taking into account the reality of the social and cultural context in which we live. Look, it's very demagogic to come here to criticize this model of privatization of residences when they use it every day and every single one of your administrations. It's not serious! You don't have any credibility! You were yesterday -- that if you gave a press round -- you were told that all those private residences had to be returned to the public. And I tell you, man, to facilitate the work of the Government, Mrs. Rodil, stop privatizing them, who have just privatized three in Lugo and have one that is now in tendering process. If they want to have a little credibility, they paralyze that bidding process and make a hundred percent public residence, and if they don't, they don't come here to tell us what we have to do, which is exactly the opposite of what you do where they rule. It's very unserious, Mrs. Rodil, it's very unserious! We're going to introduce a law that we're going to impose that 90% of the rooms have to be individual. [[Applause]] What is the percentage of individual rooms in the residences of the Deputy of Lugo or the Coruña? I'll tell you: 0%. It's just that he doesn't buy a single room from those residences. But they come here to tell us how we have to manage all this. Remind me of that quote from Machado, right?"Those who are back from everything are the ones who have never been anywhere." But they're back from everything, they know everything. And it turns out that where they are they don't apply absolutely anything they come here to say and teach. Mrs Ortega said the advisor questions the inspection services. I also told Mrs. Rodil that that's the easy thing; that it's easy to say that we criticize inspection services. It's because they do it, but not just because they do it; I tell you, in the Reactivation Committee, specific people, specific organizations who came here invited by you and proposed by you, they accused those inspection services of phone calling before each of the inspections to help the residents overcome them fraudulently. I've asked you three times to demarcate these accusations and deny them on those three occasions, and today they again do so. Of course they accuse them, sign us with their fingers and then come here and say they're on their side. It's absolutely false and it's absolutely cynical! They say here we question the workers. No, you question them, you question them! I've asked him before, and I'm telling those who want to form a bipartite: what are you going to do with the employees of the private residences you want to nationalize? Because you want to nationalize the health sector. That's right, they say they need to be recovered for the public. My question is, what are you going to do with those workers? You'd better tell them. And they say there's a need to improve wage conditions. I'm not saying no, but, man, get into these dramatic terms... Do you collect more workers from the residences of the Deputies of Lugo and the Deputies of the Crown than from any other residence? Because what makes the payrolls are the minimums, eh! If they want to take them up, he's a volunteer. Where they rule, do they collect more? Do they have better payrolls? No, it's not true. Stop lying, stop falsifying reality, stop doing demagogy. And, man!, to finish, I, Mrs. Rodil, don't say everything that happens in this country is to blame for the Block, it's not true. Now, that in Ourense there is a paralysed residence and that a public residence cannot be built is because of the Block and the PSOE. That's his fault, and we have to make it absolutely clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Exclusive guilt, responsibility for you two, exclusive responsibility! And you have to say it. [[Applause]] And the other thing I can't let go of, Mrs. Ortega, is that you have to have a lot of glue to come here accusing the Board of lack of transparency. You have to have some glue! But the representative of a party does... by the way, do you know that in the Reactivation Commission we request the comparative data of mortality in residences by autonomous communities? We asked the Government of Spain. I don't know if you have the data. I don't have them. But I'm going to ask you a very simple question about transparency: are you able to tell me today how many Spaniards have failed because of the cave pandemic? Because the Government of Mr. Sánchez, the Government of his party, was still unable to give us a specific data of which was the number of deceased in the most serious pandemic in Spain's history. And they come here to talk about transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u60	A little decoration!, a little decoration! Taps a little, please. It's just beginning to be outrageous! I would like to repeat to you — and to this end, President — here was a counselor who came here today to propose concrete measures and concrete proposals that have been prepared by a group of people who have selflessly contributed their experience and their knowledge to improve the lives of our elders. The hand is stretched. Their responsibility will be to take it and collaborate, or, as they've been doing for the past 12 years, discard it and devote themselves to putting sticks on the wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u62	To stay on their consciences; ours are very quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u63	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing of the appearance, the Social Policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Ortega, I don't know what's going on with you, who's always struggling with that communiqué that we regularly send about positive cases in residences, and so you ask me whenever you have a chance. Look, don't worry, because in the newsletter tomorrow you will be able to get to know precisely the situation of CRAPD 1, Vigo, but also precisely all of Galicia's senior residences. And we haven't done this today or tomorrow or last, we've seen it do it since the beginning of the pandemic. But, nevertheless, his colleagues in the Socialist Central Government Party don't, unfortunately, copy Galicia. In short, Mrs Ortega, don't worry, that you will be at your disposal, as during the whole pandemic, all of you and every one of Galicia's contagions. You have wasted the opportunity you had in your intervention to tell us -- here there are Members from Ourense Province -- if you are going to allow us to build a public residence in Ourense city. Yes or no? Yeah? I hope that for the fifth time... I hope that for the fifth time we will rise to the Full of the Council of Ourense the construction of a public residence of 12 million euros, of 120 squares, and be able to meet all those larger ones who need it so much and deserve that residential place. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs Ortega, you're also talking to me about dependency and increasing the rating teams. I share with you that we have to increase the number of professionals who value the older people in their own house, so we have just increased from 44 to 60 the number of professionals who value the dependency; 36% more professionals who go to the home of each older person to value what degree of dependence they have. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodil, I see that you liked the back today. He liked the retro because you proposed to me some ratios that have been working in Galicia since 1996. You ask me to contain the professionals of direct attention. It's been like this for twenty-five years. The Galego Nationalist Block proposal has already launched President Fraga Iribarne twenty-five years ago. I really tell you, with all my affection, not to put into your residence law a request to the Government that has already launched President Fraga. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] But, look, finally, what matters is to continue working for our elders, and here, in Galicia, we have to be very proud because one of the figures that best talks about Galicia, which best talks about our land, is the longevity that we have of the Greeks; 83.8 years of life expectancy. This is a compliment to our lifestyle, it's a compliment to a top-level public health, and it's a compliment to our care system. But the fact that we live more Greek and Greek also poses new challenges for society as a whole. And it's not that we treat our older ones as if they were children, because they're not, nor are we forcing them to live in a place where they don't want to live, but it's about giving our older ones that support they need, that attention they deserve and that affection, so they can pass that fall of their lives where and how they want it. With this new model that we have just presented today Galicia becomes a European reference point on aging, it becomes a European referent after twelve months of very intense work by the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee. We became a referee after twelve months of working with the sector, working with the experts, working with the health care professionals, working with the family and also with the users. In our community we are going to face this challenge from consensus, from the certainty of consensus. I hope the opposition parties don't take advantage of the next few months to open up here in Galicia, a crack where there isn't. Because here, in Galicia, when it comes to residential planning and residences of the future, Galicia is united, and that unit is what they expect and what many Greeks and Greeks need when it comes to the most important themes of their lives. Because beyond any political ideology, beyond the abbreviations of a political party, as you say, Mrs. Rodil, above all, are people. And yes, above all, there are all those people who worked everywhere, who worked tirelessly to build Galicia that we have today. Ladies and gentlemen, you really know that there are many people who claim that when you become mature, when you get to maturity, when you get to maturity, when you get to be older, it's the moment when you start to throw away dreams. The truth is, I honestly believe that every year we join our lives is another opportunity to keep fighting, to keep fighting for all those dreams. And no motivation can be more powerful than working to build a Galician where all the Greeks and Greeks can become those older people who have always dreamed of being. Of course, the Galician Union will continue to work everywhere and without rest and we will continue to work hand in hand in the entire health sector of Galicia so that in our community those dreams will be a reality. Nothing else, thank you very much, and good Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u65	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] As has been said, we are now debating the next question. Da Marina Ortega Otero's appeal and two other G.P. Members. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union with regard to early attention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u66	Mrs Ortega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u67	Thank you, President. Welcome back, Counselor. As you are concerned about Ourense's residence, I tell you that we, of course, logically want that residence to go ahead, but what has to do is that things have to be done with respect to the legality and the regulations that are marked because if they cannot exist, as you know, problems. I know you're aware of this question and you know the reasons; then, the truth is, it's a little demagogy to do that, but good. In the matter, early attention will refer to the set of interventions addressed to the children's population from 0 to 6 years old, to their family and their surroundings, which aims to respond as quickly as possible to the transitional or permanent needs of children with developmental disorders or at risk of suffering them. This is a fundamental resource to prevent a deficit in development and also to deal with it, so the health of the affected children's population depends to a large extent on this resource. However, despite the importance of this service, it is a great stranger to society. In fact, on many occasions there is a tendency to believe that it is a simple therapy or a set of therapies, when it is a resource that goes far beyond the functions we all know; it is a service that works directly with the minors but also with their families and in coordination with pediatricians, with children's schools, schools, social services, etc., in a multidisciplinary and cross-sectional view. As representatives of citizenship, we have a duty not only to make proposals on matters as important as this, but also to give the knowledge of Greek citizenship the vital importance that certain issues have, because that's why we will better capture the attention not only of the family users of the service, who obviously already have an interest in this matter, but also of the whole set of citizenship through the empathy that emerges when we know that what's at stake is the health of the children and the children of Greece. Nearly two thousand under six years of age in Galicia already have a degree of recognised disability, which shows the magnitude of the need and the social demand that this resource generates in the population, considering that studies indicate that the Danish population is around eleven percent of children between 0 and 6 years of age. In Galicia there are times of waiting in the early care of even a year, and access to the service shows a obvious inequality above all territorial, showing that there are not the same opportunities, but that, according to where children are born, they will have access to the service or not. Given the type of population that could be used, which are those under 0 to 6 years old — where it must be pointed out that it must refuse the best interests of the child always — the question is being violated if we do not provide the means with a resource that must be of immediate and accessible use once prescribed by the optional, since the fact that waiting lists delay the child's access to the service may cause damage to the health itself and to the powers or development of the minor. I repeat: they can cause damage to the health of children themselves; that's why it's so important. It is true that early attention in Galicia has experienced steady growth in recent years, but when we compare the coverage and content of the investment by people from 0 to 6 years old with the rest of the autonomous communities, we still occupy worse positions at the state level, so we have to invest more resources. In addition, it must be added that Galicia is the autonomous community that least of all potentially dependent per inhabitant across Spain, so it is important that the Greek Government increases its efforts by favourably discriminating these types of cases, so that in this case children with difficulties spend all possible opportunities to maximize their health and their own abilities and opportunities in life. But this is worse in rural areas, where territorial inequality is manifested. As an example of this, a few weeks ago the media warned of how, for example, in the Conso-Frieiras Commonwealth, minors are out of service until seven months a year. This is a matter of concern to us, of course, because this invalidates the benefits of early care itself, given that, according to the study published by the State Federation of Associations of Temporary Care Professionals, they estimate that the average frequency for the effectiveness of the service must be at least 1.2 hours per week for at least forty-three weeks of effective work per year. So we need to urgently study these kinds of issues and develop a planning strategy based on the Danish population. It is also necessary to ensure long-term budgetary and functional stability in order to shield the service itself, as many municipalities are unable to maintain the services without ensuring the budget return of the service. Therefore, it is essential to review the method of financing the Joint Service to avoid its own instability and precariousness that interferes in the quality of the service itself by being of an annual nature, as you know. A stable and long-term model of funding is needed to enable care professionals to develop their full capacity for medium- and long-term projects to maximize the benefits of minors. Second, working on a plan that guarantees the universality of the right to early attention, equity and equal opportunities. Third, eliminating direct and indirect costs to families, ensuring the proximity of resources to the living place of families. Why do I say that? Because the very absence of proximity is costly, not only the overcost of the displacement itself, but even the need to leave the parents and mothers themselves, because, of course, the children's health does what is needed. Fourthly, early attention should be focused on the period from 0 to 6 years, since it is proven that this stage of age, especially from 0 to 3 years, is critical to making the most of brain plasticity. But in the face of the demands of families to continue working with children from the 6 years ahead, it is necessary to reformulate, coordinate and promote the rest of existing resources for a childhood and adolescence that are totally different from those of twenty or thirty years ago, and that, particularly at this time, they are living a pandemic that will leave consequences on the physical and mental health of children. These services are those of the dependency portfolio, those of child rehabilitation, mental health and childcare, those of special educational needs, etc. Close coordination between them is needed to optimize the results. Fourth, create the centre device depending on the target population. We need to optimize investment to escape existing asymmetries of resources. Fifth, bet on early childhood prevention. It's the best investment a society can make. One of the key indicators of success is preventive work, so the long term is an obvious saving. Sixth, establish the dialogue through active listening from the German Government to the professionals in the sector. That's a key question. Seventh, coordination and socio-health transparency are fundamental to knowing the performance of the service, so it is essential to know the data of the seven Sergas units, because they are not being offered. The last point — and no less important — in addition to reviewing the financing model is the need to increase the resources as we propose in the Union budget for 2022, where additional resources are requested in the cross-cutting amendment. And not only increase but profit and performance, and second the money with knowledge and advice of the professionals themselves. Because the existence of a full network of quality of early care is the best investment a society can make, because it means multiplying the opportunities of our children. So the factor that can determine the well-being and health of children in this case of early care is worth investing in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega, good afternoon to all. To talk about childhood is to always treat one of the most delicate parts of our population pyramid. The protection of the first years of a person's life is fundamental to ensuring his proper development and to project a better future. In this work, the whole of society must be involved, although there are three issues that are fundamental to identifying needs and to activate the system of protection for the smaller ones and their families; this is about health, education and the area of social services. Their professionals are better able to recognize problems in the development of a child at both physical and cognitive levels, as well as at social level. In 2009, the Government of Greece created the Early Warning Network in order to coordinate the work of all these professionals and among all of them to identify in an easier way, in a more specialized way, the problems in the development of children from 0 to 6 years old, or those who are also at risk of suffering them. Its role was to create a direct communication platform that would give advice to the family environment on the care of the youngest children in Galicia, which would focus on the need for an inclusive educational system that always offers specialized and tailored attention to all kinds of students and that would also allow all administrations to participate in the implementation of early care units spread by the Greek geography. At that time, in 2009, Galicia had two early care units belonging precisely to the Galaga Association of Temperá Care, which covered fourteen municipalities and served 160 children from Galicia. Today our community has thirty-three units of early care, which cover one hundred forty-three municipalities in Galicia and which care for more than two thousand children and girls. They're thirty-one more units, twelve times more children cared for and a level of coverage that already exceeds half of our territory. With this bet, the Greek Government has succeeded — always working, as it should be done, by the hands of the councils and the hands of the social entities — that early attention has changed from being an unknown service to a service that is virtually within reach of all. The units of the Early Care Network will reach municipalities such as Aranga, Xermade, Arbo, Val do Dubra, or the Commonwealth of Conso-Frieiras that you mention to me, all of them municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants. We know very well that the needs of our little ones don't understand geographic dispersion. The German Government, of course, is looking to bring all these services up and do it free of charge around where that child, where that family lives, so that they can always grow up, be born and live on equal opportunities with other children. Mrs. Ortega, thank you for telling me that you are aware of the Alliance of Galicia's commitment to the smaller municipalities of Galicia, because you know well that the launch of all these services represents an enormous effort for the public archives. The cost of taking all these services is not the same as taking these services to a city. That's why the municipalities need our help, our understanding and also our collaboration. That was precisely why President Feijóo, together with other autonomous presidents of different political colors, signed last November an agreement to demand a more fair financing model, a more balanced financing model, and a more supportive financing model. I would like to see this very commitment to us in this Parliament of Galicia transfer it to you, too, if you could, your President, Sánchez. While we wait, of course, for a response from President Sánchez — who we have been waiting for a long time now — the Council of Galicia is going to continue to increase, as it could not be otherwise, the funds destined for the Greek municipalities, especially the little ones, to put in place new units of early attention; that they can put in place new units of attention early to meet what the neighbors deserve, but above all what these little children so much need. And so we did it through the increase in funding in the home aid service, which this year in addition to the budget will first exceed 100 million euros. That's why we're going to increase the order for city council aid by 600,000 euros to launch more and more programmes for all these people who are at risk of social exclusion. And we want to go further, we want to go one step further. So next year 2022, the Social Policy Council will double funds for early attention. We're going from EUR 3.4 million to EUR 6.2 million. [[Applause]] We will continue to increase funding to continue to care for children but, above all, to protect and support their families. We're going to continue to increase the number of early care units to reach 50, to reach the totality of the territory of Greece. But we're also going to include a series of novelties that help the Town Councils deal with this service. We're going to fund from now on 100 percent of the hours lent and we're going to increase five percent of the price that the municipalities receive per hour. Mrs. Ortega, as you can verify, the commitment of the Greek Government to early attention, but especially with the municipalities of Galicia, is more than proven, and has already been transferred to this chamber during my appearance to present the budgets towards the year 2022. For the past 12 years, we have not only expanded the extent of this care network, but also increased its investment by 12 years, but we will continue to promote new measures that help us to improve the quality of the care provided. The first training plan for professionals in the sector was drawn up in 2021. A solid training plan in which all professionals who form part of the entire Early Care Network will gradually be formed will cover virtually the entire territory of Galicia. What we want with this training plan is that all professionals can work in the same way, that they can unify methods and also that they can continue to look after and improve their services every day. We will not forget that thanks to the involvement of all these professionals we meet the needs of hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of Galician children who have problems in their development or are at risk of suffering them. And we're also going to continue supporting and dissipating all the doubts that these families have. Because with all these professionals we're going to understand that with an early diagnosis we can prevent many of the problems these children may have when they're adults. We understand that behind a low school performance, which is a performance other than that of other children, different solutions and needs can be hidden that can have a good solution. And we also understand and understand that training parents and continuing to train teachers is an essential step forward in moving forward in a more familiar Galicia, in a more united and integrated Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u70	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On the replica round, Mrs. Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u71	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I suppose you will know the report of the Greek network of care will be early where it is stated textually: "in terms of comparison with other autonomous communities, both with respect to coverage and with respect to investment/population 0-6, Galicia still occupies one of Spain's last places." I understand that in this situation it's easy to duplicate, but it's not enough, as you well know, and more in a service as important as this one. To make an idea, you talked about thirty-three centers, when there's only forty-nine in Biscay, for example. For people to make an idea of the backwardness that we have in this matter and the need that exists in relation to such an important issue, and that we have to move on to a next level, which is to reach all the children who need early attention. Because given that we count today in this government, in the autonomous community of Galicia, with the greatest capacity for spending and resources in history, what is more important than this issue? Like, for example, health, social policies, and in this particular, attention will be early, because it depends on and will determine the future of children from whom they are very young. So I reiterate that it is fundamental, that you haven't talked about it, to review the model of service financing, Counselor. Because we're being commented on by industry professionals that could prevent instability and precariousness that interfere with the good quality of service. So it is true that we would like you to answer this, Counselor. I'm also working on a plan that guarantees the universality of the right to early attention, to equity and equal opportunities, because, as you know, we haven't really reached all the children, and the investment you're announcing, either, because we've studied it in the budget, and that's why we've been asking from the Socialist Parliamentary Group for an increase. Eliminating direct and indirect costs to families by ensuring proximity, that's also important. Because we have to do the job. This action must be directed to the target population and also to the territorial discrimination offered by rural people. I didn't congratulate the government or much less, I didn't understand it, but I didn't understand it. You say I congratulated the Government because it had taken into account the rural areas; on the contrary, I am saying that there is a territorial imbalance precisely with the rural borders and that it must be taken into account and, above all, with the Danish population. In early care we have to wager and continue to work with minors from 6 years old — as I said — with the resources we have available beyond the early care, which are — as I said earlier — the resources of the portfolio of dependency services, child rehabilitation, mental health, childcare. That the waiting lists that we have in this service, that are the biggest and that we can't assume them, more in these times that we know that the mental health of youth and children is being resented after the pandemic. We have to bet on this type of service, create the centre device depending on the population, just like I told you. And then also one of the fundamental indicators, and so you shouldn't shake your pulse in investing in this issue much more, and of course, with knowledge of cause and talking to professionals -- because it's proven that preventive work in early childhood is a symptom of success and it's also a symptom of saving resources -- is to establish dialogue through active listening — as I said — with professionals in the sector, which is key. I mean the active listening because it is true that there must obviously be meetings, but they must be heard and take into account the proposals they make you, Counselor. And it's fundamental to know the data of Sergas units, too, because we can't work without really knowing what the data is as a whole. And there you have a socio-health coordination work and you also have a general direction to do this, and you have to establish bridges so that you don't get upset with each other's advice and in a matter as important as this one. And, of course, to increase resources but with knowledge, because if you don't, you really lose your own effectiveness. The prevention of early childhood health is the fairest; logically the minors are the first in any society and I understand that we will all agree, not only on the rights of minors and on the best interests of the child at the legal level, but also because it means saving in the future at the resource level. That is why we understand that this is an issue on which we have to agree and we will proceed with a motion that we hope they will vote in favour at the next plenary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega. The suffering of a mother, the suffering of a father when he starts to distinguish some kind of problem in the development of his son or daughter is unimaginable. The process of creating the Early Care Network, which I related during my first intervention, was a very important milestone for both families and children themselves. These children can now count on a rapid diagnosis, they can count on proximity services within their own village or near their village without having to travel miles and miles to the big cities. Of course, Mrs Ortega, I share with you that we must continue to move forward in the extension and also in the stability of this service. And that's why in the next year 2022 we're going to double the funds for early care units. So I announced it, as you know, in my budget appearance, and it was quite clear and patent during Commission 5 of last Thursday, when this House unanimously adopted, including the votes of the Socialist Party, a non-law proposition on this same issue. The truth is, I thought that unanimity meant that we agreed, because it's usually the traditional meaning of unanimity, but today through this interpellation I see that I was wrong. But, of course, the German Government will continue to bet on this model; a model of early care will be created near where the parents live, near where the children live; a model based on prevention, identification and early treatment. We want to continue working to always respond to the needs of all those children but also to the needs of all families. Early attention will give them those tools that these children need to win autonomously from the very first steps, to gain autonomy from childhood and thus enjoy a higher quality of life when they are older and when they are adults. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u74	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Now we move on to point 4 of motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noelia Otero Lago, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the collective of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in the field of work
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u75	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u76	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Two weeks ago, in the defence of this interpellation, we said that the socialists and the socialists consider that we are at a certainly worrying moment, in which we are living that culture broth propitiated and sown by those hate speeches of the ultra-right, which are already silent in certain aspects of society and that they are, in addition, being directly reflected in official statistics and in the data of the Ministry of the Interior or in the different observatories for equality at the state level, which is thus translated into the increase in aggressions and hate crimes against LGTI people. And we also said that we can't normalize and watch virtually every day various incidents, read, watch and listen on the radio around those incidents, these state-level assaults in many localities, but we've also lived it here in our community in recent months. And yet, always preserving and maintaining all respect in the case of one of the tragedies we have experienced this year, — we say — as was the murder of young Samuel Luiz in the Coruña, preserving that necessary respect for an investigation that is open at the police level, a judicial instruction that will determine what was the motivation of this tragic crime, if we were to say that it is inevitable to denounce the existence of homophobic dyes around that terrible murder. And we also said that in the face of this situation and this context was not enough to make institutional statements or to show our strongest condemnation and that we have to develop — the Council of Galicia, in which it occupies us and reaches us here in Galicia, in our country — all the tools we have within our reach, as it is to develop each of the chapters of the Law for equality and non-discrimination of the people of 2014 LGTBI. We said that we all have a huge responsibility in the middle of this crop broth that is being translated into those hate speeches, that often find that aquabble in our own institutions. Fortunately, we have to be glad that it did not come forward with that derogation which was intended to be ultra-right in the Community of Madrid, which Vox intended to repeal the laws of LGTBI; a blockade that was achieved thanks to the overwhelming response in the streets of citizens and citizens, but also the vote against the left. But here we can't be equidistant in a situation like this. We remember that the People's Party of the President of the Community, Isabel Díaz Ayuso, if he abstained and even defended after that debate in parliament, at the assembly, said that Vox was a party that was entitled to amend and repeal the laws he considered. And what we consider — it is redundancy — is that it is not a matter of consideration. We must mark red lines when it comes to democracy, tolerance and human rights, which we could not play equity, and more taking into account that result that we have at the time of crime and LGTBIphobia. We betrayed and presented this initiative talking about this context about that study that presented and that did the UXT union at the state level and that showed certainly worrying data throughout the state and most worrying, in addition, it fits in our community. A study on the reality of the rights of LGTBI people in the workplace, which cast an absolutely despondent view. In this study, for example, one of the findings that 96% of LGTBI people in our community, workers and workers — or 90% at the state level, 96% in our country — considers their condition to be inconvenient when they find work. In that report, too, other terrible data were drawn up, such as that 91 percent of the Galicians and the Greeks, the neighbors and the neighbors, who live in our community, workers and workers, consider it necessary at this time to hide their sexual orientation, and that six out of every ten workers or LGTBI workers suffered some kind of aggression, discrimination, whether verbal or, ultimately, physical aggression. Six of every ten workers or workers in our community! So we found ourselves, according to this data in this report by UXT Galicia, which we knew in October, among the three communities where perception for workers and workers LGTBI discrimination is higher, and we said that we estimate, this parliamentary group, agreeing with the union, that the German Government, that we are all in obligation and we have the responsibility to act and do so quickly. In addition, on many occasions, we also said in that debate and in that defense in our appeal, before the counsellor, who was deriving that these people, in this context, are now giving up, at this time, many of their most basic labor rights: rights such as asking for permission for marriage or permission to accompany their couples or their children and their children to medical centers. A voluntary waiver of labour rights, which is — we say — the most perverse effect on the lives of these people because of their sexual orientation. An effect which, at least, should make us reflect, but also take measures to ensure an inclusive working environment. The UXT union has also made, in view of this very worrying data, an approach in the matter of work to see how the different labour conventions were at present, and the surprise or not so surprised — we say too — is the great void that exists and that everything is only tied to volunteerism, goodwill. We put together the board. And in this context we want to welcome positively because the word, which is the compromise that brought here the advisor himself, who recognized that this data, of course, were worrying and announced a study of its own which he said would see the light - we have been waiting for - in 2022. He was also talking about specific actions, guidance and training. We think that the first thing is to recognize the concern and also to take action, but we have to move from words to facts and we ask them to develop, because in many respects many of the chapters of the Greek Law have been wet against discrimination and equality of LGTBI people, adopted in April 2014. We also ask that in the face of this situation, not only in the workplace, if you give content and activity to the Galician Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, which only had two meetings since its inception in 2018, the last in July. I also announced here the advisor, two weeks ago, that the next meeting would be in February. We think that a meeting or two, in sumo, a year doesn't give content or activity to this observatory, just as they're demanding and asking for different associations and collectives. Finally, since we talked about moving from words to facts, around this situation was also blessed by the advisor of the increase in aid in budgets to LGTBI collectives. And we told him that, of course, yes, but without giving figures, because for all of Galicia these collectives, who have also worked around that crisis context during confinement, for all LGTBI collectives in our community, are growing. But do you know how much the total amount of the Community budget is allocated to the LGTBI groups in our community? Twenty thousand euros. That is the economic effort dedicated to these associations. So, and taking the words of the advisor a little bit, we hope that in this motion, which will not go beyond ensuring compliance with the law — which is sad to say so — and why the Board is actively involved in encouraging within the framework of its competences and within the framework of social dialogue with companies and trade unions, if they include specific clauses against this discrimination that, we are seeing in this study, suffer the workers and workers LGTBI. Let us therefore hope that this motion will have the unanimous backing of all groups. Thank you very much and for now nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, let me begin by moving both in my name and in the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group all the support, all the recognition for the Lower Mine primary care companions who today started the first of the three rounds of strike convened, with practically one hundred percent follow-up, because against the vault, more than masks abroad, what we need is more professional, more means and more resources to have worthy and quality primary care. [[Applause]] Focusing on the specifics of the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u80	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u81	...we found ourselves in a very delicate moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u82	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u83	Sorry, can I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u84	Silence! I'm already running the debate. Many thanks to all those who collaborate in the debate... Silence! Please, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u85	Thank you, President. We found ourselves at a very delicate time for people in Galicia, too, on a global level. When it seemed that more standardization was going to be achieved progressively, we see as day after day the hate speech also grows in an incendiary way, and from his hand to aggression and discrimination. We can see them in the labour market, as we are talking about in this motion, through, for example, the violation of the right to privacy in the selection processes, the non-renewal of contracts, harassment, difficulties in promotion, denial of benefits and permits to couples. But also at the social level or in other areas like education from very early ages, with insults, invisibility, isolation, aggression, harassment and cyber harassment. When we talk about rights that are not respected, including the most basic human rights, when we talk about harassment, discrimination, violence towards people, based solely on who they are, good intentions remain short, especially when they are spoken from the Government. We need activity, initiatives, policies that are truly inclusive, and we don't stand in the friendly face and in the gentle words. And here the Government has to have an active implication, because putting down the rainbow flags in June and then doing nothing else has a name and it's called "hypocrisy." [[Applause]] That's why it's not to be received that when seven and a half years have passed since the adoption of Law 2/2014 its development is extremely scarce, given that we're already talking about a law that is absolutely minimal, a law that doesn't even collect hate crimes. It is dramatic to be constantly bringing to this parliament initiatives in which it is demanded to comply with the law, that law of which you so much like to be proud of in the Greek Government. For we shall see that this is what is set out in chapter II of the mint law, article 12: "The competent body (...) in the field of work shall establish an information and disclosure programme of the applicable non-discrimination legislation (...), as well as anti-discrimination programmes, particularly in the workplace, directed at employers, trade unions, self-employed persons, responsible for labour inspection, public employment service and any work centre. It will promote the incorporation (...) of opportunities. It will promote the development of a study in which the situation of LGTBI people is visible (...) in order to know their employment situation and the measures to be taken. The Galician Union may establish periodic information and evaluation mechanisms to prevent, eliminate and correct all forms of discrimination in the field of employment. Public employment services, their collaborating entities and employment agencies (...) must be specifically responsible for the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination. Labour inspection must ensure respect for the right of equal treatment and non-discrimination in access to employment and working conditions. In the framework of social dialogue, in collaboration with business union organisations, the board (...) will promote the development of a protocol on equality and good practice in the business field. In the regulatory bases for public grants and contracts, it may be imposed as a special condition of execution of the protocol laid down in the previous point, so that its breach may lead to the reintegration of the subsidy or the termination of the contract." Article 13: "The Galician Council shall urge the trade union and business organisations present in the social dialogue to: encourage inclusive measures for LGTBI people in collective agreements; to inform the rules on discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity; to promote the rights and visibility of LGTBI people at work; to treat multiple discrimination specifically (...), as well as discrimination of transsexual persons, and to encourage their recruitment." They're not deeply ambitious measures, but if they were to comply, we weren't talking about the study conducted by UXT, which Mrs. Otero mentioned earlier, and perhaps hate speech wouldn't have so much insight into our society because there would be greater awareness. We're talking about the fact that 96% of the investigated Greeks considered it an inconvenience to reveal their sexual orientation and 91% hid it. Practically all the workers live in the closet when they're at work, and it can be understandable. I'm not surprised when we see six out of ten workers admit to having suffered some kind of aggression. In addition, this leads to the loss of work rights: no marriage permit is requested, for not talking about the subject, or the days are not required to accompany the couple for illness or to accompany the children. The weight of stigmatization is so important that it affects us in renouncing our collective rights, but no doubt those who carry the palm are the trans people. According to this study, 48% of the trans-investigated individuals were denied work interviews because they had an unregulated gender identity or because they still had unadapted documentation. And let me stop at this last point, because it has an active responsibility both for the Government of Galicia and the Central Government for its inaction. LGTBI organizations have been demanding for years the need for a gender identity law to allow them to stop these situations, to allow for short administrative deadlines, for example, to eliminate pathologization and, ultimately, to allow the rights of trans people to be guaranteed. [[Applause]] In Galicia we had the chance to have that law. Unfortunately, the People's Party voted against and did not even get admitted to the trial. We can look at other studies, unfortunately not one done at the Greek level, because even though it is collected in article 12 of the law I read before, that is not done. Studies such as the survey carried out by the Agency of the European Union for Fundamental Rights. [[Applause]] In this survey, the question of whether they felt discriminated against in the workplace because they were LGTBI, in the Spanish state 20% answered yes, and up to 34% answered positively in the case of trans people. 77% of trans-women in the Spanish state suffered discrimination when looking for work. Trans women who are also enduring the consequences that cowards have brought on the labour market, because they were already in dramatic circumstances before, because many of them have lost their jobs and many remain in absolute and profound precariousness. That's why we consider it necessary to work not only with LGTBI people who have been able to access that job, but with all those who have not been able to access it to do so in decent conditions. That's how we feel about our amendment because we think it's important to make it easier for all of them. Support for the LGTBI collective is done much beyond the June and, above all, it is done much more than by putting down the old bows. It goes beyond "me respect" or "non-discrimination" because there are times when we almost have to thank because they tolerate our existence. It's made up of policies that actively consolidate the rights of people who don't enter the cystetronoma because our rights are equal to yours; they're human rights. It's done by fighting who spreads hate in our society. Because it's not worth the beautiful words you say every now and then if you go that way, you use the right one to rule. That ultra-right that didn't shake his hands in turning to cameras similar to this one by formulating initiatives that seek the retreat and withdraw the rights of LGTBI people. [[Applause]] The fight against LGTBIphobia must be firm and resounding and not with mere abstentions or with speeches to be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Today we are debating a motion as a result of the Interpellation of the full past on the inclusion of LGTBI people. It seems important to us to stress that there has always been a broad degree of consensus in this chamber. In fact, in 2014, all political forces unanimously approved the law that protects and protects people from the LGTBI collective, seeking their rights, in full and without any discriminatory act hindering the process of carrying out a normal daily life. More recently, political forces have also unanimously approved in the last debate of the state of Autonomy a resolution in which we show rejection of hate speech. Galicia was a pioneer with the approval of Law 2/2014 of 14 April for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. And this — allow me, Mrs Carreira, that I do not see it — is not to be proud, it is simply to recall with pride what we have done in this German Parliament all the political forces at that time. And I shouldn't bother you that we achieve unanimity in such important things as defending the rights of LGTBI people. [[Applause]] In addition, both in the law and in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, the principles of freedom and equality of the individual are collected — as can no longer be otherwise. With the German law, different strategic areas are praised for the full integration of this collective and, among them, an important area of work, which is precisely the subject of this debate. In all of them, what you're looking for is to guarantee these people's rights and normalize their orientation as well. More recently the unification of the Employment and Equality Council was a clear statement of intentions of the importance that the Greek Government wants to give to these two areas which are closely linked. What once again points to President Feijó's involvement in achieving the real and effective equality of the most discriminated against people in finding a job, and of course also to achieve respect for these people in their jobs. So once again, we consider that they are late, gentlemen of the opposition, and we regret to say it because the Council of Galicia has already advanced in this area and is already working. As far as the first point of the motion is concerned, the truth is that it seems to us an obvious thing to ask. We understand, of course, that it is already being done at all collective bargaining tables, because it couldn't be otherwise. It would be discrimination on the grounds of sex. To us, of course, it would seem, if we formed part of a collective bargaining table, an offense that if I thought this was not already done, would it not? From the Council, what is done is to promote different measures in the business fabric together to improve the integration of this collective, both in the field of training and in the field of encouraging the recruitment of these people. We can highlight, for example, a few training days this year that were given on a specific campus, that were open to representatives of both trade unions and workers, employers and entrepreneurs, to precisely raise awareness and raise awareness in organizations about the situation of people in the LGTBI collective, who sometimes have to bear their daily work with the consequences — that we all know — that this has in their private life and also in interpersonal relationships. Last September it was also approved in the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, who said so the other day to the advisor, the Guide to the Prevention and Treatment of Sexual Harassment and Sex harassment in pemes. It works from the social dialogue needed to achieve the objectives of this guide. And this translated is the requirement that all companies have a protocol for the detection and prevention of harassment in their organizations, and thus address the problems in a faster way and in addition to a protocol established, which is easier when solving the problems. This guide shows the consequences for people who suffer from harassment from situations of discomfort that we know occur and also the causes and physiological derivatives that can cause. The company's obligations are also shown, if any of these situations happen, as well as the consequences of the organization to which it may be faced if it does not take action and detects a case of harassment in its organization. Both the German Government and we, the People's Group, are committed to the discrimination of the entire LGTBI collective, they don't doubt it. And there's also from the Government, and from the Popular Group, an interlocution with the associative tissue that surrounds this sector. In fact, six collaboration agreements have been assigned by the Government with some of the main entities such as Arelas, Casco, Uses, They Coruña, LGTBI Pulse, Coruña Wings, etc. And the government also keeps open on a permanent social dialogue to address any issues that arise in the workplace, and is in constant contact with trade unions and business fabric to address the situation in the best way. You're late because another of the measures taken to facilitate the lives of these people was the development of recruitment incentives. We're talking, for example, about the Galicia Employment program, which increases its accounts to help transsexual people by 25%. And this increase is also made to facilitate the inclusion of LGTBI people both in self-employment promotion programmes as well as in the Aprol programme of the social economy or in special employment centres. Regarding the second point of the motion, we also want to highlight the work developed by the Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity. It must be noted that there are three lines of work in this observatory: in sports, in education and also a very important one to meet the needs of vulnerable groups, understanding how vulnerability the difficulty of people belonging to the LGTI collective to live a normal life, regardless of their sexual orientation. And this observatory, which is part of the trade union organizations together with the most representative entities in the sector, and all those who want to join in, because it is open to all entities that want to be incorporated, it aims to seek solutions and move forward to achieve what we all want, which is a diverse, inclusive society, and also to raise awareness of the need to respect and help those who are most likely to suffer the consequences on the part of the most intransient society. And count, as you said, with an annual budget allocation. It is a body that is open and which has just referred to a short time ago with its rejection of all kinds of actions, discrimination, disqualifications and hate crimes committed against LGTBI people. It is, on the other hand, the members of the Observatory themselves who may request their summons, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Article 21 states that he will meet twice a year, but that he may meet when he is summoned by the person holding the presidency or by the request of a third of his members. Moreover, they do not forget that this observatory works in working groups, to facilitate work, just as we do in Parliament. So the second point of the motion, in which they demand that activity be increased and that it be gathered every quarter, we do not see much sense to it be urged from Parliament because they can wake up its members and can meet as many times as they want; they only have to ask for it, if they need it. Not only do you work from the Observatory, you also work from the Directorate General for Labour Relations, which did a study that you yourself, Mrs Díaz, cited, where you will see the problem, the employment situation of LGTBI people in the year 2022. And the Galician Union is clear that it's working in a proactive way, in collaboration with the experts and representatives of these groups. And I want to make a fincapé, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a clear impetus in the workplace to encourage the recruitment of LGTBI people, with employability programmes, which have a clear positive discrimination in order to facilitate labour integration. Therefore, the implication is maximum and the importance that is being given to this matter from both the German Government and this group is very high. From this group, of course, we will always defend and always be with the people who suffer this problem, seeking a change in society, sensitization and, in the worst case, the punishment of those who cause LGTBI people's lives to be difficult in their daily lives. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's author group, Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u89	Really, honestly, I hope we're late for such initiatives. To say that we are late, that it is already being done, that there is already this positive discrimination in collective agreements is something that does not happen, but not because the Socialist Group says it, but because it is said by the own union author of this study, that around this data so worrying what he did — as we explained before — was to make an approach to matter and recognized, although the unions have been trying to introduce these specific clauses, it is something that has not been achieved, and therefore they directly asked for the involvement of the Greek Government. We also took advantage of moving the adviser with the powers of equality and employment, and she said that they would, in fact, encourage and encourage the implementation of collective agreements in this social dialogue, because it does not exist. Here are the results and data of these policies. Of course, we are going to accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, because, indeed, we are not only late, but, as this amendment is sufficient in the same sense that our motion, the only one that collects the text, the decisive part of this motion, unfortunately - and we say it before - is the failure to comply with the law, because it is not done. And not only do we have the example in the workplace with that panorama, with that absolutely demolition X-ray, but a little while ago, ladies of the People's Party, in a plenary, a month ago, we presented a question to the Health Counsellor to know how he valued a conviction from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia against Sergas for not complying with this law. And we remember the case of Sara Romero, a transgender woman who had to resort to justice because after many years of seeing her not being answered in the Galician Health Service, in the public health service of this country, she had to pay in a private clinic for her operation, her vaxinoplasty and her mammoplasty. He asked for that amount back to Galician Union and what he found was silence and negative as a response. And what is said in that judgment, which, by the way, is that there is sense of jurisprudence at the state level, is that for nothing it is to be received not only not only not to comply with the law, but not to respond and not to give deadlines, because not only the rights are at stake, but the quality of life and the health of people. [[Applause]] We don't want to keep these debates in these shades, but don't be proud - as the fellow Carreira said - or don't be blessed with a law that doesn't meet in many respects. It is said by all the collectives, it is the data, it is the LGTBIphobic increments in our community, and it is the courts themselves, such as the conviction of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which forced Sergas to pay off the amount disbursed - of course, that Sara Romero had to ask for a personal credit to submit to that operation -. So I hope we're late. He was talking before the budgets. Today we had this debate. They do not accept any of the amendments from the opposition groups, and there was a very clear one: we are asking for something that is not so disorbited, as it is to increase, of these 21,000 sad euros, which are not enough, taking into account the level of association and the fabric we have in our LGTBI community and this context of what I was talking about, up to 100,000 euros for all the associations in our community. It's 21,000 euros! What they regret is that this observatory has no content, no activity and no budget. For them it's a cost to have to go to those meetings they were talking about. Since 2018, there have been two meetings in which only the regulations have been adopted, which is the regulation, and with institutional statements which are not enough before what we are observing. It's not about politics. It's about moving from words to facts. And we also ask, within the framework of that responsibility that we all have when we have the opportunity to make public speeches, let us be strong. Because we were saying that there is an explanation and a clear reason for this broth of cultivation, for the increase in this type of crime and aggression and for this backwardness, which are the hate speeches promoted by the ultra-right in this country, which find ambiguity in institutions, such as the Madrid Community. And we saw him just a week ago. So here we have a tool that no one puts into doubt: that law of minimums, as we said, adopted with consensus, we comply with it at least. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the regulation of the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u91	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. As I note that at this afternoon the People's Party is a bit abrogated already in terms of democratic debate, we will again insist on something from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Even though the People's Party doesn't like it, legitimately, there are Welsh people who mobilize and manifest themselves. Sometimes we don't like the reason why they do it either. When you and your friends from Vox show up for the unity of Spain, I don't get excited, but respect you as a Democrat. I also enjoy once again giving the recognition of this parliamentary group to health professionals, who are now about to manifest themselves in the Lower Mine and who are an example of what is happening in the primary care of the whole country. [[Applause]] For them, our recognition. [[Applause]] They don't like it either, but just ten days ago, more than 5,000 people throughout the country were mobilized by claiming a different wind model on World Mountain Day. He didn't like Mr. Conde, in the previous plenary session, to hear that this would happen the day after the interpellation. You don't like to see what happened, but we're going to remind you : Lama, Antas de Ulla, Becerreá, Bembbre, Carral, Castrocalelas, Sardinian, Chantata, Coristanco, Costa da Morte, Ferrol, Foz, Gondomar, Laza, Lugo, Marín, Meira, Pontevedra, Vila de Cruces and Vilalba. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows several photographs to the members of the House.]] Galegos and Greeks who freely mobilize themselves because they are against their wind model, not against wind energy. [[Murmurs.]] Galegos and Greeks who are older, mostly free citizens and nobody tells them who they have to vote for, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] So you're going to assume that people in this country are older and decide what they want and how they want it. This was an important mobilization. It wasn't the first or, of course, it'll be the last for this reason. I insisted on the beginning of my intervention that the day before we had questioned Mr. Conde, who did not want to hear the reality, but this is the reality that is outside of this Parliament and outside of San Caetano. And there are more and more collectives of all kinds, institutions and entities that demand another energy model, that has environmental guarantees, that it is respectful of the population and that it has social and economic returns. And that's because in this country there's a great social concern, which is what really bothers you. There is enormous discomfort with the People's Party's wind model, and that is bringing together all kinds of sectors: environmental groups, neighbors, mountain communities, municipalities of all colors — including the People's Party — biosphere reserves and a long and so forth. In the previous plenary session, precisely to bring about this social unrest, we demanded two very simple questions from Mr. Vice-President. The first one to explain to us what were the motivations and what were the reports that Junta was supporting to modify the Law of the wind sector, for the tenth time, through the Law of Accompaniment. We also called for a rectification, for them to abandon this express process and for them to sit down and push what society is really demanding, which is a new wind sector plan that is consensual. The truth is, we didn't listen to the explanations, nor got the correction, as was clear in the vote that was made a few hours ago. Still, we keep insisting, because the problem continues outside of this Parliament and we know that the measures adopted by the People's Party do not solve problems or much less, but, above all, we are seeing how there is a blocked administration, which is not able to divulge the demands of citizenship, neither the allegations nor the fact of going ahead with the processing of projects. We're already watching the top of the hives. This is like Ourense's residence. That in 2020 the People's Party had installed zero megawatts and that in 2021 the figures will be very reduced is the fault of the opposition, just as you did not make Ourense a residence since 2016, which they promised. [[Applause]] It's pure magic now, because before there's a change of government in this country it's already a fault that the Galician Union doesn't make the opposition parties. It's something really dystopian, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We insist again that what's happening is that their way of governing, their way of developing wind energy, is bringing a great social challenge, because instead of being an opportunity to generate economic wealth, to advance in energy transition and energy self-sufficiency, to push the fight against climate change, etc., what they're doing is to turn it into a triple problem: that's social, that's environmental and that's economic. It's a social problem because they're stealing public participation, because there's no real participation and because there's lack of information and transparency; it's an economic problem because there's not enough return to our country, because above all the approach to the population nuclei of these new technologies is causing incompatibility with some socio-economic uses -- more traditional, like the owners -- because there's no public participation, etc.; and it's also an environmental problem because you're listening deaf to legal recommendations and you're listening deaf, besides, implanting this kind of energy in places that should already be excluded, as is the case with the pending territories of enlargement of the Natura Network. This can't go on like this. This is the view of the BNG, of course, that is why we bring it to this House, but it is also the opinion of many collectives of all kinds: scientific community, many judicial judgments that have already alerted us to the optical production of the Union — as is the case with the judgment of the Iribio — and it is also the opinion of the Galician Wind Observatory. In the whole past we read even the opinions of the employer himself, because the situation is so sharp that there are points in common even of parts that might seem antagonistic, for now, the ecologists and the employers themselves. Today we're going to make another attempt. I'm very sorry, Mrs. Novoa, because you didn't like it when my companion remembered this report from the Galician Culture Council which was published a week ago. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos showed you a document to the members of the House.]] Now, in this new disaster that we live in, the People's Party is also taking over the Galician Culture Council, I imagine on that radical horizon of this country where radical independenceists, Bildu, Venezuela, etc. accumulate. Well, the Galeg Culture Council, too. [[Applause]] They didn't like it, but they don't have anything left! I'm going to read some reflections, in the short time that I have left, on the report by the Galician Council of Culture: "The Galician Council of Culture positively values the deployment of renewable energy to Galicia. However, the way"—literally I read—"in which it is developing is negative for areas of our society as sovereign as culture and even economy, as it affects landscapes, the environment and heritage. That is why the report first calls for the revision of the current sectoral wind plan -- that is because in this legislation they have voted more than a dozen times against a revision of the sectoral wind plan. About the impediment of social participation -- that's what I was warning there was a moment ago and voices were being heard around like saying crazy -- I literally read: "It's hard to know the exact number of wind farms currently in processing, in view of the impossibility of accessing official information on the pages of the Union." The Galician Culture Council also does an analysis of the Galego Wind Record — it is not valid that since BNG or social groups it is said that it does not allow access to sufficient information — and concludes that it doubts the reliability of the data. This means that a statistical agency is telling you that doubt about the data it provides to the Union, through the Galego Wind Record; what doubt about its reliability. Let's keep going. I literally read: "You can't really talk about the existence of public consultation processes. Access to information and documentation is limited, difficult and requires special motivation, training and dedication." About the Natura Network, I read: "Let wind farms and their infrastructures occupy ecosystems protected by the Natura 2000 Network is uncommon at European level; in the case of the Greek, it's very extensive. The areas of wind development occupy 107,000 hectares of the nearly three hundred and twenty thousand of the Natura Network and, in some cases, almost all of the Natura Network is an area of wind development." I mean, to be so European, they're already kicking us out of the European Union. [[Applause]] On the expansion of the Natura Network, I read: "Most of the wind farms that are being processed are projected over these areas. More than thirty parks with 136 airlines, according to the analysis by biologist Martiño Cabana. I have a few seconds left. "Telegically, regulatory abuses add an insufficient capacity to the administrative body responsible for assessing the cultural impact of this sector, which faces an excessive workload that is incompatible with the rigorous analysis required by these projects. Finally, we must not forget the enormous pressure exerted by business sectors to push these kinds of projects." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what we ask for, what we demand is a large majority of society in this country, and now also the Galician Council of Culture is to rectify, open the door to dialogue and consensus, to develop a review of the wind sector plan, and to prevent the further increase of the problems linked to a strategic energy in this country and to commit many damage and plague them from an environmental, social and economic point of view, before it is too late. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u94	Thank you again, President. The truth is to agree with all the actors who have something to say and who have to do with a sector like wind, all the actors who have such a varied nature and, sometimes, opposed to their interests, the truth is that they have merit or merit, because they all agree. We are no longer talking about the positions of the opposition parliamentary groups. They also coincide from the wind bosses, mountain communities, trade unions, neighbors and neighbors, and now also the Council of Galician Culture. There's no need to talk about opposition attitudes or policies or proposals. The truth is, the denunciation they're making of the policy that the Government of Galicia is carrying out in connection with the development of wind energy and the wind sector in our country, I don't know whether it has merit or merit. And although this is not the first time — many times have been discussed in this Parliament, either in this plenary or in committee, about the need to modify that wind model, to update it and correct the evals it presents — the fact is that it seems virtually impossible to reach some constructive or understanding point. It is enough to review the intervention, the answers - or not answers, rather - that was given two weeks ago by the vice-president and economic and industrial adviser in the inquiry of the BNG Parliamentary Group. Being aware of this challenge and insecurity that are denouncing all these voices of such opposite nature, we did not listen and we did not get a single explanation and argument. After listening to the vice president and counsellor, all these voices agree that all these changes that have been implemented in recent times for the only one they have served was to generate more division and even more legal insecurity. We have warned — my colleague Martín Seco — on several occasions the direct consequences of this lack of order in the sector. We have come closer from the Socialist Parliamentary Group concrete proposals to try to move forward and add to that necessary update of this model, but with little success because, as we said, there is zero self-criticism and absolutely deny the greatest. Because we don't know or know what the alternative model they're defending is. Because we consider ordering is not paralyzing, it is not submitting the sector to a paralysis with a moratorium that comes to be for many and many a recognition only of the incapacity and overflow that is currently suffering from the Council, the Government of the Union and irresponsibility, because this has been warning for a long time. It's more. We speak of this irresponsibility at a time that is decisive, in which what should become an energy and economic opportunity, as counsellor speaks, assumes or not the ambitions at the challenge of the fight against climate change, and we say one thing, but then, on the other hand, we are constantly criticizing, if we talk about industry, all that has to do with the energy transition. Instead of turning into an energy or economic opportunity, it has become -- we insist -- a problem; a problem loaded with uncertainty and discomfort that goes through the streets from north to south by the neighbours, the neighbors, those communities, those municipalities, even the People's Party; and also by those companies in the wind sector and the wind association, who have come to denounce this insecurity. But the worst of all this is boldness. I am very afraid that again today we will attend that party, and the guilt of this positioning of the Galician Council of Culture and all these positions, if it is not of Bildu's independence — as Mrs Presas said — will also be today, in this debate of the wind model of what is responsible for Junta de Galicia, de Pedro Sánchez. He spoke of boldness because you are perfectly aware of this situation and of the insecurity that you are denouncing absolutely all of these actors we were talking about. And they present a moratorium and changes through the Accompanying Law, as it has been reported, through the back door. They don't have dialogue with anyone, and the Socialist Group doesn't say so — we insist — they know perfectly well that this is the unanimous opinion of the collectives, but also of the employer: through the back door and without taking anyone into account. Last June, before being involved in this situation, in these changes and in the moratorium, for not going further — because there were many of them — the PSdEG brought to this Parliament — and it was not the first time — a proposal to move forward in that new wind model to correct these eels, and it proposed a reform to counter this malaise, that mistrust that grew among the citizenship. I planned that specific model was based on participation and corrected that lack of transparency. But every time it gives rise to the opportunity to have this debate, as I said, it's complicated, and the only thing we've made clear is that they're either overpassed and they don't want to recognize it, or they don't want to get wet, and then decisions are much better to take them behind and avoid public opinion. But this erratic policy, in addition to discomfort, has economic and direct consequences in the auxiliary industry as well. We asked them to adapt the model to these times and move forward in a planned, sustainable and responsible way, but everything, as we said, falls into a broken bag. We were also talking about having some consistency in postulates and environmental speeches. This is the Galician Culture Council. Even today, in our parliamentary group, our environmental spokesman, Pablo Arangüena, again insists and registers initiatives linked to this necessary expansion of the Natura Network that have been put into a drawer in this decade. We said it was urgent in 2011 and it was projected by that government of Emilio Pérez Touriño. We already said in September 2021 that it was essential, and we're finishing and, unfortunately, everything points to the tail of that state wagon as far as the Natura Network. Nothing, absolutely nothing, of the above-mentioned here today are ideas or new approaches, because, despite having this debate on countless occasions, what we find ourselves under arrest is not what we said in September that we are at the same point as always, we are, as we said, worse. You accused us, Mrs. Novoa, in September, of lying when we said that the employer and the wind association were blaming and denouncing politics at this time of the Council of Galicia. We were accused of lying! Instead of making fun of us when we're making a direct allusion, I'd appreciate a little respect, rather than gestualizing, really. [[Murmurs.]] I encourage her to respond, because then the association focused on what we said and moved in September. The Wind Association said in September that the politics and paralysis of the Galician Union were having serious consequences. And you said we lied and were talking about and criticizing the Government of Spain of Pedro Sánchez; that same wind association with which you met, with which we all met, as with the various environmental groups. We didn't lie then or lie now. And this Wind Association has not only raised its denunciation, but also the various collectives and the various municipalities in recent times, but it talks about measures by the back door, without dialogue, with an absolute lack of transparency, and that all they do is create and generate uncertainty and insecurity. The change in regulation does not have any agreement, and even the advisor himself has not been able here to clarify the slightest motivation or basis in technical, economic or legal studies. [[Applause]] And even the Galician Council of Culture has shifted that position to this situation, and they also affect that need, among other things, of the expansion of the Nature Network, which puts us far below that state average. You work — which is already a cry — and implement a more participatory and transparent wind plan and model. For all this, in addition to having asked for it by different means - that we agree in general terms with the need to negotiate this new model and also to bring clarity to the level of competences in state and autonomous processes - we will support this initiative of the BNG Parliamentary Group, because we consider it urgent to negotiate this new comprehensive and transparent model, with the participation of all the sectors involved, and which, of course, contains all environmental guarantees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Nothing new under the sun, gentlemen. We ended this year as we ended the year 2020: seeing the Nationalist Bloc and the Socialist Party against the Greek wind sector. Madam Presas, I love you going to demonstrations and we accept demonstrations, but the Members of this House are elected in elections and not in demonstrations; not by attending demonstrations or by anyone else attending demonstrations. So you can see here 42 and you can see there 19, Your Honor. That's the reality. [[Applause]] We accepted all the reports, not like you, even though those who made that report were BNG's exalcators. We accept them, too, Your Honor. But today the debate in this House at this time, almost seven o'clock, should be the price of light: 370 euros/megavatio/hour at this time. But no, the debate at this time here in the opposition groups is to be against a sector that not only prevents CO2 emissions and prevents environmental pollution, but also contributes to lowering the price of light. But no, the BNG bleaching Mr. Sánchez with a price of light at 370 euros/megavatio/hour and again polluting a sector that should be a key in the times we're living. [[Applause]] That is the reality of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is they're playing a very dirty and talkative game with this sector, and they're doing it under two premises: the first, they're causing fear of the population of Galicia; and the second, the concealment of the reality of the regulation of the wind sector in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] You play to scare the people of Galicia, saying that there are 275 parks with 7,200 megawatts of power that they will either settle in Galicia, when they know it's radically false. Tramiting is not to authorize, and your modus operandi is to pick up the sign, first, and put on the t-shirt... No, first, put on the T-shirt, and second, pick up the sign, mount the corresponding platform and go knock door by door to tell lies to the neighbors. That's the reality of what you do, gentlemen. Secondly, you're playing with the withholding of information. They hide that this avalanche is not only in Galicia, but at national level; they hide that this avalanche is provoked by the Government of the State, its partner, not by the Unity of Galicia, because the Royal Decree 23/2020 states a series of well-adjusted deadlines for processing projects that only they generate in promoters is precipitation when presenting their initiatives, in order not to lose access rights to the connection or even to not miss the economic guarantees; they hide, gentlemen, that Galicia has a territorial management tool, the wind sector plan, which says where they are and where they cannot be installed wind; they hide that by law they prevent the implantation of wind in the Natura Network from 2009 and that, as a result of all the Galician environmental protection, cannot be implemented in Galicia wind farms in 77,5 % of their territory; and they also hide that of the 7,200 megawatios, 4,000 megawatios and non-megadoes, the most popular sector, the Xevaial sector, are of projects, the most popular, the most popular, the most popular sector of the most popular, are of the " And you about this, chiton, prefer to keep quiet; Mr. Sánchez's complicit silence. You, Mrs. Presas, ask on your own initiative, at your point 3, more self-government. But what self-government? Madam Presas, once again with independence, sovereignty and self-government. It's not like that! What the Government of the State has to do is respect for autonomous law, the Swedish sectoral wind plan and the German wind sector autonomous law, which says that parks cannot be installed outside the sectoral areas defined in the wind sector plan and not in the Natura Network either. That's what they should defend, defend self-government and defend whether the autonomous laws, Mrs. Presas are being complied with. That's reality, and you don't. They are accomplices of this lord, here in Galicia, and in Madrid. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The reality, what they really hide -- and they want to hide it, because we all know it -- is that their wind model is indeed a failure. The wind model of the Bipartite was cancelled twice by the courts, in addition to being strongly criticized by its banking partners. Yes, Mr. Tabares, that gives the head. Yes, he was criticized for fingertips. But you're also hiding that when they were the rulers of that industry council, they were affecting more than four hundred megawatts. Were you predators, Mrs. Rodil, at that time when they were installing parks? Oh, of course not! And they also hide that they authorized six parks on the Natura Network, plus oligopolie companies. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Interruptions.]] They're hiding that too, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. The truth is, what they're showing is their anachronistic vision of the wind sector. What they want is to take Galicia to the past and not to the future, and you really want to get gentlemen, Mrs. Presas, is the paralysis of the wind sector, of course. That's what you guys want. The reality of all of this is that Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has an wind sector based on a sectoral plan that says where they can be placed and where they can't put the wind. Unfortunately, Galicia is one of the leading communities in this sector. Wind processing is extremely guaranteed and therefore takes time to process the files, Mrs. Presas. It follows the strictest environmental regulation, the ordinary environmental treatment - if, although Mrs Rodil says no - the extensive processing of more than ten sectoral reports, that is why it is slow. And you've hired more staff, but the processing of the files takes as long as it takes. So what do you want? It's just that you ask us to pass through the files and authorize them. That's what you would like, but it's not, Your Honor. Those who comply with the regulations will be authorized and those who do not, will not be authorized. And we're not going around painting maps with all the parks and telling lies, which is what they say. [[Applause]] Whether the information network has been expanded. A provincial information network, a outreach guide and an information office were set up for landowners. And now you're also upset that the Galician Union is once again pioneering by establishing a moratorium on the wind sector. Hey! You spoke here of the report of the Galeg Culture Council, but you spoke of the part that interests you. He didn't say that the Galeg Culture Council report also talks about establishing a moratorium. No, that doesn't say in your conclusions. Ah! that he forgot to read the conclusions, and it didn't happen from the first leaflet. Your Honor, in order to strengthen compatibility with environmental protection, you will also extend the distance to a mile. Mrs. Rodil, the clear picture they're against the wind sector is that they're against repotency. I'd like you to pass by Muras and go over there to the mayor and tell him they're gonna get the propellers out of there, see what I'm saying, what's up with the wind cannon 500,000 euros a year. Mrs. Rodil, be serious. You would want to generate legal insecurity. But how are you so hypocritical? That's the reality. Political hypocrisy is theirs, which aims to defend the Vestas. But what is Vestas dedicated to, Mrs. Rodil? You were talking, the BNG, about political hypocrisy against the wind. You took pictures of the demonstrations, of all the wind farms, and then you want companies to be set up here. But if you scare the companies! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're "the ones of the no." Not to the wind, not to the land, not to the sea, not to the hydraulic power stations, not to the sky, not to the private companies, all not to the thermal power plants. But they are those of themselves - they are also those of themselves - to the covenant of Ana and Adriana, those of themselves to submit to Mr. Sánchez in Madrid, those of themselves to the highest inflation in history, those of themselves to the 400 or 500 euros megavatio/hour that we shall end up paying the price of light, gentlemen. They are the self-being today without a solution for Alcoa, after two years, of that pact of Ana and Adriana that didn't meet any of its premises. They're the ones of themselves to an unfair intransaction to Galicia... a pity, Your Honor, and you laugh! Madam Presas, about the wind, it's hard to speak seriously, because you know we had to talk seriously about the wind sector, both you and Mrs Otero, at best they had a hard time. [[Laughter]] I'm so sorry. [[Interruptions.]] I don't like banners, especially the ones you do. What's curious is that you've forgotten a sign before. [[Murmurs.]] He didn't take the one from Verea. Maybe it was because the mayor forbade you from going there. Maybe so, Mrs. Presas. [[Laughter]] Come here and get the Verea sign. Where did you have to hide? Tell me the truth. Mrs. Presas, what I'd like to say is we're serious, and if we have to worry about something in the energy field today, it's for the price of light. And you know there's a man in charge, and he's in Moncloa, he's not in Galician union. And you actually took him into your pact of Ana and Adriana to study a Greek fare. You can't blame Galician Union. The fault of the price of light, of the EUR 370, of the EUR 400 or the 500, to which we are going to unfortunately arrive, is in Madrid. So I would ask you, if you speak of consensus or agreement in the wind sector, you can't be seen doing as you do, Mrs. Presas. It's impossible. And it's also impossible for this group or the Government of the Union to accept any of your proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u98	...because it's impossible to reason with who's against everything. Nothing else on my part and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Mrs. Presas has the floor for the motion's own group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. I felt like we were jumping in on time and it was December 28th. But at last... Mrs. Novoa, you're exaggerating from the BNG. It's that everybody here is suspicious of "traitor to the country" if not of the People's Party. So, if anyone was mayor of the Galego Nationalist Block, even without already being in the organization, can't you think?, can't you do your job and can't go back to your university professor's job? What's wrong? Whether it was the former mayor of the People's Party or the People's Party discharge we already know where it would be: charging 700,000 euros a year in some power station. [[Laughter]] It is that the level of debate is such that I spoke today in this plenary -- well, in the previous plenary -- formally, four times, of the rise in the price of light and you say I didn't talk about the rise in the price of light. Please, if you'll apply me a moratorium on the BNG to ask me to shut up at a damn time at the price of light! Please, Mrs. Novoa, really! If they want to speak seriously, they wash their ears before they come to the debate, because this is the fourth time we have talked about this in this plenary. And we will speak every time it is necessary, because it is a fundamental problem for the country and there is responsibility in the central government, of course there is, but there is also responsibility in the ranks of the People's Party, in the governments that there was and in the inability of the Greek Government to place Galicia in that debate with its competitive advantage. That's the question, Mrs. Novoa. Then he also says we don't talk about the state. Point 3 of the motion, Mrs Nóvoa: "To prepare and forward to the Italian Parliament a study on the powers and regulations of the state regulations and plans of the energy sector and of the problems arising from it, in order to promote the necessary measures for the defence of the self-government in Greece. Mrs. Novoa, this point comes after you've voted several times against this country's ability to condition the wind projects of more than 50 megawatts of the state. Because you come here, put on the Galician T-shirt and say, "Alas! How bad Pedro Sánchez, who violates Galicia's sectoral plan and how bad he invades Galicia's competences. But at the moment of truth they press the red button because they don't want to defend that self-government. Then clear up. If there is a problem with the state parks, let's look for solutions, and even the party that supports the Government, the Socialist Party, undertakes to vote on that point. So, what's the question? That you vote are delighted that there are problems with the state parks. Why? [[Applause]] Because they say, we're going to blame the central government. We don't manage a single megawatt in 2020, we're going back in 2021, we're going to blame those who protest because they're going to install the wind in conditions that are harmful to their interests, and if we can blame anyone else, then come! We're here to find solutions to the problems. That's what we propose in this motion, and if there's a problem with state parks -- of course there are, and we're arguing and protesting against many of these projects -- because we're looking for a solution. And to find the solution, you have to go, too, apart from the problems that you caused. We can talk, for example, about threats about the Central Mass. What's the matter? The Central Mass is an example, but we can talk about Suido and others. It is protected a very small part and, by the way, protected by the decree of the Bipartite, which was the first legal text in this country that excluded the Natura Network, it likes it or does not. The problem is that you have been scratching the belly since 2012, without expanding the Natura Network, and now we have "these mud dusts." [[Applause]] And of course we ask to strengthen the staff of the Board, but not to authorize it with the automatic button; no, not, but to get the Board to work and do something elemental, which is to provide technical and legal assistance and to serve as consulting both the owners and the mountain communities, affected, etc. That's the role of a government: to help people. Do it and then do your job and pass it on, because there are problems arising from the so-called effect that I made the decree of the state, but there are also problems arising from the incapacity of the board administration. Look, whenever you want, we talk about the wind model of the Bipartite, or we even take the report of the Galician Culture Council, and we talk about Fraga, because you guys have made things worse. So, whenever you want, we have a debate about it, we call the mayors to come and let all the mayors of the BNG come. If you like, we have the monographic debate in Verea or wherever you want, Mrs. Novoa. Or, if you like, we also call your mayors, who are approving motions against the political model of the People's Party. Or, if you like, we'll do it in the House of Ourense. [[Applause]] I read the proposal adopted unanimously in the House of Ourense: "Require all competent administrations, state and autonomous communities in the field of energy regulation, which establishes a new Greek wind map with criteria for the preservation of our territory and from a social, environmental and heritage point of view. And that, in time, the benefits obtained from natural resources, particularly water and wind, will return to the local population, both through direct payments to the owners, taxes to the municipalities and the creation of industrial plans and own tariffs! that promote the development of the province's territory". [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños read a document.]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Yes, really, having to come to this rostrum and have to say that there are points in common between ecology, nationalism, mountain communities, neighborhood associations, employers and even the illustrious deputation of Ourense is already the definitive evidence that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u102	...there's a consensus in this country that things are not going well and that we have to go to another wind model, Mrs. Novoa. That's what we propose in this motion, with these points, where the most important thing is that they rectify and that this sectoral wind plan is being revised. And they don't lie and manipulate the reality of the report of the Galeg Culture Council, which I read exact lines. Read the point of the moratorium and you'll see it's not a moratorium like you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u104	...they applied. In any case, what we propose here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u105	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u106	...is that revision of the sectoral plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Rest for today. You can rest now, you've had a good day. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, on mining regulations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u108	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u109	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "In the case of San Fins, the Galician Union is going to ensure that from an urban point of view, from an environmental point of view, and from a water quality point of view, it will comply with the prevailing legality. And that, of course, if that wasn't so, the project wouldn't be approved." This was the commitment you acquired here, at Parliamentary headquarters, at the last plenary session, the Economic Counsellor and Vice-President of the Galician Union; a commitment that, of course, we will be vigilant that it is fulfilled, because the history of all the activity surrounding the San Fins mine since the year 2009 have all been right in the opposite direction, in the direction of non-compliance, not in the direction of compliance with the regulations. Now that Tungsten San Finx has just applied for permission to pour into the river Fisheries of purified industrial wastewater from the mining of San Fins, and has also introduced the project for the adequacy of the channel, for the removal of the sediments accumulated in the hydraulic public domain in the vicinity of the dams, and with everything that has happened in the last twelve years, you will understand that we cannot trust ourselves; neither we nor the neighbors and neighbours of the district of Muros-Noia, nor, as has been manifesting in recent weeks, the municipal corporations of Noia, Outes and Port do Son, who have just approved the demands of the river brotherhoods and position themselves against that authorization that is being dealt with by the Board of Galicia. And so they did, corporations and confreres, because they've been suffering for many years the consequences of an activity and a company that has been circumventing their responsibilities since the concession. They did so because 7 kilometres from that mine is the stream of Walls and Girl, a rich laugh that gives food to thousands of people directly and indirectly, and that you can't afford to hang up the sign of "closed by death" that hangs on it because of a mining activity that has caused the threat and that the Union has allowed and allows, denying its impacts over and over again, you don't know very well on what interests, and even being complicit and facilitating in a situation that Galician waters's own technical reports call into question. The conviviality of the Galician Union, despite its own technical reports, with the company that manages San Fins is horrifying. In 2009, the company resumed its mining activity without an environmental assessment project and no public exposure. By the way, these performances, as everyone will know, ended up in court and led to the director general of Minas then being investigated and, of course, to no longer occupy that position. Later, and to continue to cover that authorisation of 2009 without environmental assessment, they wanted us to swallow up the history of the fact that the abandoned and overcrowded landfills were not such; they were, according to a report that Junta gave for good — and I read textually — "hydroelectric dams connected with mills". A story that the People's Party kept for ten years, until a report by Galician Waters in 2019 corroborated what everyone knew, that the prey, their management and their exploitation were carried out by the mining company. And, as Mrs. Novoa would say, you, chiton. [[Murmurs.]] That lie maintained for so many years, with the Union looking to the other side, had and continues to have consequences on the territory, that you still do not want to see despite technical reports and even scientific reports, such as what the University of Oviedo published and which speaks of an exploitation with radioactive minerals, or what most recently published the University of Vigo, which shows that the contamination of the heavy metal stream is directly linked to the mining activity of San Fins. It's not one or two, it's up to three reports from the various bodies of the Galician Union - the year 2019, the year 2020 and this year 2021 - that clarify meridianly the impacts that already exist, certify that the maximum allowable cadmium values are exceeded in the waters of the rivers that descend alongside the mine and require consistently to the General Energy Policy Directorate that temporarily suspends the activity within a year, requiring the company to complete exploitation project and environmental impact assessment. Finally, Junta has authorized the company a pilot heavy-metal clearance plant. Its result, according to the file itself of this discharge authorisation, was a real failure, which they found — as I say — the reports of the Galician Waters. However, and on the basis of those results, the Galician Union is now seeking to authorize industrial dumping. An authorization which, I insist, is based on reports which speak of the serious potential risks arising from the draining of the galleries and the exploitation of the mine that is intended to be carried out and an authorization of discharges which is presented by the company at these times — and I read textually — as "environmental improvement of the mine environment and the adequacy of the water of the Rabaceiros", which in the project itself presents the company says is "a compensatory environmental measure of the company to improve the state of the river and to ensure the structural behaviour of the dams". A compensatory environmental measure that I don't know is intended for the company that we still thank him at this point. Compensatory environmental measures! [[Applause]] The project is actually intended to be a river dredged less than 100,000 square meters, as it collects the project, when it comes to a withdrawal of mine waste for its reprocessor. What's the difference between these two things: between what the company says and what does it really consist of? Well, the difference is that for one thing, that is, the project collects, there's no need for impact assessment and for the other, yes. So, this way, he wants to resupply environmental assessment. Finally, this new request, this last request, we understand that it is a real threat above all that is already in place. The environmental restoration of the area is, from our point of view -- not only from our own, but also from our technicians -- a necessity; and the reopening of the mine cannot be done without environmental assessment. So the simple fact that the request for discharges has been publicly exposed, with all these backgroundes and with all this history behind it, for the second time in a procedure that has already been opened irregularly six years, when it turns out that the deadline for solving is one and a half years, leads us to conclude that the words of the counsellor in the last full bear the risk of being wet again. Only this time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the injured, the current injured and the potential ones, that is, the current sea sector and the whole community citizenship, are not willing to allow it. They've already been mobilized, they've made allegations and, above all, at this point, they're very clear that environmental health, wealth and local jobs are in the creek and are not in the mine. That is why we bring this motion here today, accompanying precisely the legitimate and well-founded demands of the confrereries and of the neighbours and neighbours of the region. A motion urging Junta not to persist in the destruction of the country and the jobs that it generates the main company in the Comarca de Muros-Noia, the creek. We demand that the law be strictly complied with, that Tungsten San Finx be required to present a new exploitation project, inevitably from the respective environmental impact study, and its submission to strict environmental assessment processing. And as long as this doesn't happen, we complain, supporting ourselves also in those reports from the various bodies of the Board — such reports that the Board has made so far clear — that no kind of authorization is granted to the company, including those of the discharges they now request. We demand that activity be temporarily suspended within one year, as indicated in the March 2020 report of the Energy and Mines Service of the Crown Territory, until the operation is regulated. And finally, and no less important, we demand that the board stop doing the fat thing and exaggerate the company or, in their case, carry out subsidiaryly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u112	...—finished—the restoration of the sections of the fishing river affected by the dams of mining waste.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u114	We think it's a very reasonable proposal and it shouldn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u116	...have opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u117	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. On a previous basis, I have to say that this morning a member of the Vox section of the People's Party of Galicia was considered to speak in this House a "carallo", no doubt inspired by the "dog" who, for his part, gave the other day at Congress the Mr. Married. I don't have anything special against either of the two categories coming into play outside the parliamentary headquarters, but this morning they didn't come into the story, and we're also in parliamentary headquarters. As Thomas de Quincey said, in the great classic about the murder regarded as one of the fine arts, if one starts by allowing himself to murder, he soon doesn't care to steal, from the theft he gives to drink, etc. [[Murmurs.]] So if Mr. Casado starts by saying "dog" in Congress and another Member, Mr. Tellado, he continues to say "brain" in the Galician Parliament, we enter a dangerous spiral that we do not know where he leads and that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to ask him to stop. In non-direct relation, but in some relation to the whole above, since the authorization of discharges requested by the concessionaire of the San Fins mine is pending for resolution. Both ecological organizations and the confrries of fishermen and municipalities of the Muros and Noia River claimed that the processing of that authorisation initiated in 2016 is illegal for various reasons. Some people go further and talk directly about corruption. In fact, a few days ago, a number of environmentalist associations filed a complaint about what happened in the San Fins mine in recent years, saying that, despite the fact that the Union had been in record of the landfills of the mine for years, the Galician waters have been shielded in the existence of a discharge authorization procedure to not apply the corresponding sanctions or the discharge control canon, saving the companies -- they say -- more than thirty million euros in the last five years. According to that complaint, this practice would be indicative of alleged crime of prevarication, misrepresentation, etc. As far as the complaint was concerned, officials were accused of issuing false reports, simulating that the scraps of waste near the mine were hydroelectric prisoners, as Mrs Pérez mentioned, to avoid not only the liability of the concessionary company in the recovery of environmental damage, but also to cover up the performance of officials and public officials who would have allowed, with its inaction, that situation. And according to that complaint, Galician Waters, in conjunction with the company and with Junta officials, began last year a procedure to restore the public hydraulic domain affected by mining waste dams to change their legal characterization, so it was Galician Waters, and therefore the public era, who had assumed responsibility for them. They're obviously very serious accusations. And the complaint that I am speaking of was joined by others who gave way to the request by the Environment Prosecutor's Office in 2017 for the opening of criminal proceedings and transferred to the court what he considered serious irregularities found in the San Fins mine, claiming that indicatively there are elements that could mean the existence or risk as set out in Article 325 et seq. of the Criminal Code, i.e., crimes against the environment. They talked about the absence of an environmental impact study, since in 2008, after several requirements, the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño demanded that this study be held by the concessionaire to reopen the mine, but it was never presented by the company, which claimed that the exploitation had not changed since 1982. When PP arrived to Join, reopening was approved and the need for the previous report was deleted. It was made, according to the prosecutor's office at that time, without mediating any legislative change — which was manifest on the other hand. In his conclusions, the prosecutor showed his concern at the absence of treatment and management of the most dangerous waste in the mine and considered it proven, "probable" I say — not me but the prosecutor at that time — the dangerous and potentially dangerous greens that flow into the mine, so he considered that whether this green is, or was, tolerated or authorized by the Administration, and whether, with knowledge of its contaminant or dangerous nature, there were loose or emptied of some of the mine galleries. That procedure was finally filed, having gone through that article, but that doesn't take away the gravity, which the environmental prosecutor then said, that it might not have criminal transcendence but that if it has, in my opinion, politics. Because it must be remembered once and for all that the absence of criminal responsibility does not have to involve the absence of political responsibility. Because there can be a perfectly bad political management, even damage to the public heritage, and no crime. In fact, it is often so in so many cases that they end up criminally archived but that they are clear cases of terrible political management that should give rise to responsibility as such. The San Fins mine is causing further contamination by heavy metals in the contiguous river course and in the stream of Muros and Noia, which is not only part of the Natura 2000 Network but is one of the most important maritime areas — as we know, thousands of jobs depend on that river, its shellfish, on the entire coast of Galicia. There is concern, because the project now under public information will not treat the waters from the rubble of the old mine, and according to a report submitted by the confrereries of Noia and Portosín and the Town Hall of Walls, the treatment project itself is totally unrealistic. So there is concern about the deficiencies in this project, there is concern about the risks of pollution, there is concern about the attitude of the Union, at least suspected of involvement with the company, in any case permissive and negligent with respect to the obligations of the company and the administration itself. Because it must be remembered that in 2009 the former mining operation was resumed through a project of exploitation and restoration plan approved in that same year — we insist — without submitting to the environmental impact assessment, without any consultation with the environmental body or other sectoral bodies, including hydraulics, and without subjecting itself to public information, also preceptive to the adoption of restoration plans. This absence of environmental impact assessment and inaction by Junta implied that continued contamination by heavy metals has been allowed over the last decade; and now we are at a point where we intend to reopen the mine by evacuating a very imposing volume of water coming from it, but at the same time without taking over the mineral waste reservoirs from the mine, which have been there for a long time and which threaten to collapse, causing a potential ecological damage that could be very high and which is highly worrying. And I want to be very careful, because I do not come here as a prosecutor or the Socialist Group intends to prejudge the outcome of the complaint that has just been filed, but if we see that there has been a prosecutor, certainly very qualified, as Mr Álvaro Ortiz, who considered that there were enough clues to investigate, not something that would be serious for himself as the administrative decision, but something much more serious even as it is a presumption or several alleged crimes, and that he found that there were greens coming from the mine for years before the total passivity of Junta, which neither forced the company to cope with its responsibilities or, if it was not possible for some reason, he took his own measures. Because it either enforces the law by the company or it itself should restore or eliminate that risk or damage. Because the fact is that there is a clear environmental risk when rafts containing mineral waste present a clear risk of breaking down, leading to the rivers in the area and finally to the river, and when greens from the mine are found for years. And Junta has an obligation to avoid environmental risks, even more so when they can affect an economic activity as important as that of the creek of Walls and Girl, and it doesn't. So — I insist — we are not going to exercise taxes here in respect of alleged crimes, not much less, but if we note at least the inaction and incompetence of the Board to end the landfills coming from the mine and to avoid the risk posed by rafts containing hazardous mineral waste. They didn't do anything. Together did nothing but look at another place and now you don't know what you're trying to do, and that generates alarm and indignation, why don't you say so? That is why we tabled a substitution amendment, which we believe includes what the Galician Nationalist Block calls for, which says that the Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to take all the measures necessary to ensure — "guarantee" we say — that no greenery coming from the San Fins mine endangers the ecosystem of the rivers Pesqueira, Vilacoba and Traba, or the creek of Walls and Noia, adopting the utmost rigour and diligence — so far there has been no such thing as the implementation of the control and prevention measures, which have not so far existed, provided for by environmental legislation — including the restoration of the natural spaces affected by mining and the imposition of maximum penalties for any breach of that law. This amendment was communicated to us by the People's Party that practically in its integrity, except for a word, would be accepted. On the part of the Galego Nationalist Block, we understand that this amendment satisfies the claim of its initiative and, in that sense, we believe that it would leave us all at ease as to the risks that there may be and the actions of the People's Party and the Council of Galicia, which certainly leave us no other feeling than the risk, and therefore we consider that this amendment would be perfectly acceptable. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Armada Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the first thing I have to say to you is that we are defending is a sustainable mining model that enables industrial development, with the ability to generate quality jobs and opportunities in rural areas, while being environmentally compatible. And in the specific case of what we're talking about, the San Fins mine, it's working with the utmost rigour and demanding all the urban, environmental and technical guarantees that establish the applicable legality. We are in a rule of law and therefore projects are processed and authorized according to that established in the current policy framework, not according to what a certain political party wants. You should take into account that the policy framework in which we are moving is precisely a policy framework that has been approved in the Bipartite and in which you have a very important responsibility within the Industry Council. Logically, on that Law on the Management of Galician Mining, the advisor, when approved, said — and I quote the counsellor of the Galician Nationalist Block — that "he was convinced that mining activity was compatible with environmental respect, job creation and wealth creation." So what I mean by this, alluding to the counselor, is that we have to be guided by a principle of prudence. Prudence because, for example, in many European countries, an average of 40 laws on mining are required and in Spain more than 100 are applied, with which we are talking about a pioneer and ambitious country in the search for a sustainable development that serves as an economic engine. So we're also talking about very strict regulations on the impact that mining can have on the environment, such as in the composition of liquid greens, dust emissions, noise or restoration, for example, on the landscape when extractive activity is over; rules that must be assumed if the exploitation is to be carried out, and there's nothing else left to assume. It is clear that we, seeing this non-law proposal, almost understand that it can be an amendment to the entire mining sector. We, as responsible for being within the Government's action, are establishing an agreement with the Mining House and we commit to it to put in place a sustainable mining strategy to boost the circular economy and help modernize this industry. And why am I talking about her? Because of this industry, about eleven thousand jobs are dependent on within our community. So with this kind of message we have to be very careful and especially very careful when moving them, since these professionals are also working for innovation, environmental integration and especially for mining to be in some sustainable and environmentally viable way. Therefore, the Union shares itself with you that it is necessary to be very rigorous in the processing of mining projects, but what we differ from us is that we observe the strict compliance with that regulation, while you — to which we give the impression — want those projects to be approved that conform to their personal criteria. Well, it's known all over the world that there's a commodity crisis right now. Just take a look at the reality that companies are living and the impact they have suffered to realize that the need to exploit our natural resources in a responsible and environmentally compatible way — I insist — is fundamental. And we have to do it with maximum rigour and maximum transparency, and that can be done with a hard task of control and at the same time prestigious and defending this industry. With regard to the San Fins mine, it is clear that the Greek Administration is strictly demanding the conditions necessary to guarantee the quality of the waters that emanate from that mine, and for that must be at least those set as natural and normal parameters. I don't know if you know him, but the company has been working on this performance for about two years. The last events — I report to you, because I think you have already made a little story— are that on April 23, Galician Waters demanded the presentation of a technical project for a new waste water treatment, on June 8, the company presented the documentation of the project incorporating the requirements set by Galician Waters on the previous and July 2, — not a month — Galician Waters made a requirement to amend aspects of the project presented, such as the flow that can be extracted, the requirement of the double cycle to eliminate all cadmium and zinc and the inclusion on the plant of the entire water mass. Thus, the tests were carried out in a pilot experience and they believed that the parameters set for the medium receptor were met in the Hydrological Plan of the Galicia-Costa hydrological demarcation in Royal Decree 817/2015. Therefore, the company is currently working on an environmental recovery project for the purification of waste water from the San Fins mine which incorporates the requirements required by Galician Waters based on the results obtained in the tests carried out in that pilot test. In fact, this environmental regeneration action proposes in two phases: a first emptying pre-exploitation, with a duration of 494 days, for the 65 days mentioned above, with the objective of evacting accumulated water in the mine galleries to reach the quota that allows operating conditions, minimizing the risk of affect to the medium recipient given the treatment capacity of the debugger. And a second phase of exploitation in which the maximum vegetable flow will be 631,836 cubic metres per year, in order to maintain the cool water level inside the galleries that guarantees operating conditions and avoid safety risks for workers. Thus, the new project presented by the company replaces the passive-type physicochemical treatment originally proposed by an active physicochemical treatment, which, according to the pilot tests, allows the compatibility of the green with the quality objectives of the recipient medium; some parameters that will be the object of double control: one at the point of dumping and one at the point of discharge in the row itself, through the Intemar. I would also like to deepen a little more on this mine and really also know why, if so convinced they are of the incompatibility of this exploitation with environmental protection, when you held the responsibility of the Government in 2008 authorized the transmission of San Fins mine rights, without requiring the new company to present an integrated environmental assessment study. We would also like to know why the two-party government granted three aid in that same year for a total amount of EUR 830,000. I think I heard something like that in the interview with the advisor that there were two million around. Well, you know where that money went. We, of course, have no drawback because we trust that the decisions taken at the Administration are in accordance with the applicable legality. It's your problem. Then I'd like them to explain. It gives us the impression that you are opposed to the processing of an environmental recovery project for the purification of waste water from the San Fins mine, which — I insist — will serve to improve the quality of the surrounding waters. It is clear that in politics we must be cautious about the professionals in the sector and the Galician Union, and I am telling you because there is a precedent, which has recently been learned, for example in the Varilongo mine, where, in this House, harsh statements have been made against officials and officials and charges and the presumption of innocence of the investigators, but it has finally proved that the procedure of the Union was correct. So far, no one, absolutely no one, apologized. In addition to a judicial overcrowding decision, the file was added by the Eurocamera Committee on Petitions. By the way, a petition commission that had the position to defend the need to reconcile the protection of health and the environment with the competitiveness of the mining industry. I would like to conclude by recalling that the grant actually remains active, as long as it is met with all the conditions laid down, and that the activity is temporarily suspended, pending a discharge authorization from Galician Waters; and I note, a resolution which may be favourable or not and which will take account of all the procedures carried out, including what is the result of the public information itself. So let's let the professionals, the technicians work, because they'll be the ones who tell us whether that mine is actually viable or not. I would also like, to conclude, to appeal to the citizenship of its region and also to the stream of Walls and Girl to send a message of tranquility and, above all, a message of responsibility from the Self-Government that it will carry out all the necessary actions to strictly comply with all the regulations and that, as you were saying, the marine activity that takes place in that river...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u122	...then be assured that this mine is absolutely no problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u124	Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor for the fact that the motion has been drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Armada, I want to congratulate you because in the first eight and a half minutes of your intervention you have read very well the company's project. He read it very well! [[Applause]] Others also read it, and that's what the company says in the project they present; that is, it's absolutely incredible! We spoke to the Counsellor on the question, and I don't want to go into this war now which has been given here with bad words, but, of course, this is more than convolence, because the People's Party Member, on behalf of the People's Party, is coming here to read the company's own project to try to convince us is absolutely unheard of, indeed. [[Applause]] Mr. Armada, you speak of our motion as a whole amendment to mining activity. Please listen to the whole amendment. What do we ask? First, in strict compliance with the Environmental Assessment Act 21/2013, which requires the presentation of a project of exploitation with its environmental impact study. This is the first question. Second question. Do not grant any type of sectoral authorization to the company, including the one you have requested, until the whole extractive activity is submitted to the preceptive environmental assessment. We're repetitive! - I didn't realize until now that I'm relieved. Third question. To comply with the report of 4 March 2020. You would finish your intervention — as little as you said of your own harvest, which was not the company's — by saying, "Let the technicians work." But it's just that, Mr. Armada, technicians have been working -- I told you before -- since 2009. There are three reports: from 2009, from 2020 and 2021. All the conclusions of the technicians, absolutely all of them, the Galician board, the corresponding councillor, put them in a drawer, if he didn't throw the items in the trash can. That would have to know. He didn't do anything at all. And it also amends to the whole of it is to demand that it be assured and that the restoration of the tranches of the rivers concerned is carried out. Is this a whole amendment? You mentioned that mining employs 11,000 people in our country. I understand that you are from the inside and, perhaps, you are not at all, just like the counsellor, who was located the other day in the district of Ribeira in the creek of Walls and Girl, when everyone knows it's from the Arousa stream, right? Only the sister's confrerery, Mr. Armada, gives direct work to 1,500. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm not counting the Portsin confrerery or the Ports of Sound confrerery, etc. But we don't want to put the jobs on a balance. All jobs are important to us. Precisely... everybody! [[Murmurs.]] Absolutely! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira: Nooon!]] Mr. Tellado, it's not your turn!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u126	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u127	You've talked about independence in the morning, now it's up to me. Your turn of sovereignty has already ended for today, Mr. Tellado, we are here. [[Applause]] They're on us now. [[Applause]] For us, all jobs are valuable, and at most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u128	Quiet, please. We're already finishing up. Quiet, please, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u129	...in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u130	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u131	For those who aren't all jobs the same is for you. Because at the moment we have three confrereries from the county making allegations, presenting motions in the municipalities and being unanimously supported by these municipalities. Did you read those motions? Do you know what the People's Party approved in those municipalities? Just what you're denying us today. That's your coherence, Mr. Armada. That's your letting work and your principle of prudence; a principle of prudence which you in twelve years have not respected. As you will understand, at this moment we cannot trust that principle of prudence. We want the technical reports to be respected, which is what the administration has to do with them, right? and not ordering technical reports and then doing what they want. [[Mr Pérez Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Obviously, the administration is not for that, nor for the big companies that are engaged in destroying areas that were there long before even those companies. Mr. Armada — finished — we were confident that our proposal, as I say, if it completely adheres to the law, had been supported and that a decision had been made from this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u132	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u133	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u134	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u135	...unanimous. We see that you prefer to be on the company's side, on Sacyr's side, and leave the Comarca de Muros-Noia for another moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u136	Thank you. About the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u137	On the amendment of the PSOE, we cannot accept it in terms of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u139	...we who are because we understand it's excessively generic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u140	Bad luck! Another day will be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u141	We can talk about it, anyway. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u142	Thank you. We're going to vote now. Are you going to trade something? Well, then we started voting on the motions. [[Murmurs.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u143	The first is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, the initiative of Ms Noelia Otero Lago. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noelia Otero Lago, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the collective of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in the field of work. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u144	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos, on the regulation of the wind sector. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Berganginos, on the regulation of the wind sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u145	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs. Rosa Pérez Fernández. You don't accept the amendment of the parliamentary group... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. Yeah, he's right. But he said he didn't accept the amendment. Excuse me? [[Murmurs.]] I didn't understand anything now. [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mrs. Pérez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u146	I just said I didn't accept it according to the terms I was in, but we made a transaction that, if you want, I'll start reading.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u147	Then read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u148	We maintain points 1, 2 and 3 of our motion as they are and replace point 4 of our motion with the amendment of the PSOE, adding: "...if it was necessary to act subsidiaryly according to the powers established by the Environmental Responsibility Act."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u149	Thank you. We vote for that transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Armada Pérez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Armada?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u150	We call for a point vote. Let points 1, 2 and 3 and 4 be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u151	Christmas isn't all over. [[Murmurs.]] So we're going to vote on that transaction, knowing that points will not be accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, on mining regulations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG064.u152	We'll stop the session until tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
