ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. We're on the agenda. The single point is: Debates and votes of the Ditame delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u2	The following scheme is: presentation of the dictation by the commission; then there will be the debate of the articulated, for which the groups will have a time of fifteen minutes and a five-minute replica; then the joint debate of the state of expenditure will come, for a time of thirty minutes per group and ten minutes in the second round. So we start with the first point, which is the presentation of the Commission's dictation, and for this we have the floor of the President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u3	Good day again. Thank you, President. I am presenting the Ditome of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, under the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. The bill was entered into the Chamber on October 20, 2021. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 20 October 2021, issued its publication in the Official Gazette of Parliament and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. The amendments to the whole were qualified on November 11, 2021. Parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialist Party made amendments to the overall return of general budgets and sections budgets, as well as non-devolutional amendments that transferred credits between applications of different sections or changed the total content of income and expenditure states. All amendments were discarded at the plenary meeting on 22 November 2021. The partial amendments, detailed below, were qualified on November 25, 2021. By the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 4 amendments to the articulated, 12 amendments to the numerical states, a total of 26 amendments. By the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, 35 amendments to the articulated, 431 to the numerical states, which make up a total of 466. By the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, 72 amendments to the articulated, 490 to the numerical states, which make a total of 562. Thus, in total there are 111 amendments presented to the articulated, 933 to the numerical states, which make a total of 1,044. At its meeting on 29 November 2021, the Committee on Economics, Farms and Budgets appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Group, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga as an alternate holder and Ms. Cristina Sanz Arias; by the BNG, Dona Noa Presas Bergantiños as an alternate holder and Dona Olalla Rodil Fernández as alternate; and by the Group of Socialists of Galicia, Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as an alternate holder and Fr. Juan Carlos Rivera as alternate. The presentation took place on 30 November 2021 and the report was finished, which contains the recommendations made to the committee, which are consistent with the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Group. It also recommended approval of number 31 of the BNG Group and of two transactional amendments drawn up in paragraphs 54 and 60 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. With regard to the remaining amendments, the presentation, by the majority, recommended that the committee reject those presented to the articulated by the parliamentary groups of the BNG and the Socialists of Galicia. Amendments to the expenditure statements submitted by these groups were pending for the committee. The committee, meeting on 7 and 13 and 14 December 2021, adopted by a majority the report issued by the motion and rejected those presented to the states of expenditure by the opposition parliamentary groups. The number of amendments therefore kept to this plenary is as follows: by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, 34 amendments to the articulated and 431 amendments to the numerical states, which make a total of 465; and by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 70 to the articulated and 490 to the numerical states, which make a total of 560. In total, we have pending debate today 104 amendments to the articulated and 921 amendments to the numerical states, which make a total of 1,025. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a numerical state consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The consolidated total budget amounts to 13,117,948,261. The articulated text consists of a explanatory statement followed by 63 articles, grouped into 6 titles, 15 additional provisions, 3 transitional provisions, 3 last layouts and 7 annexes. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the credit modification regime. Title II regulates staff costs. Title III shall be the one referred to in respect of obliging operations and guarantees. Title IV regulates budgetary management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations. And finally, Title VI refers to tax rules, which includes a single precept on the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and the wind canon, since most of the tax regulation contained in the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, which will soon be dealt with in full. Finally, the expiry date of the future law and the date of entry into force shall be determined. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Articulated debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u5	We therefore begin the debate on the articulation with the round of parliamentary groups to explain their position on the dictates of the committee and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. First, you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, for a time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Today the budgets of the Autonomous Community will be approved by 2022. The truth is, they'll be passed without any surprise. The Socialists already suspected that they would be approved as they entered the Chamber two months ago, including the very few amendments tabled by the People's Party, without taking account of the opposition's arrivals. The Socialists present 563 amendments to the articulation and state of expenditure, with the result of two compromises, i.e. 0.3% of the 563 amendments tabled by our group; a reality that once again dismisses the declarations of the Government of Greece and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party when it speaks of dialogue and consensus. For you the consensus is translated into that 0.3%. The articulation of the law is the backbone of public policies that will develop during the exercise, and the socialists present 72 amendments to the articulation, in which we propose movements in budget shares by an account of almost 466 million euros. We tabled amendments which, not being the accounts which the Socialists would present if we were to govern, if they would strengthen public policies, which for us are priority, in health, in education, in social policies, in employment, in housing, in industry or in equality. The Galician Union, on the other hand, presents budgets, as always, with a lot of publicity and propaganda, but does not use all resources at its disposal to care for people, to care for economic sectors, or to strengthen the welfare state, in order to get out together, and as much as possible unequal, of this serious economic, social and health crisis. They're again budgets that lack a project adapted to new circumstances. It is again a missed opportunity, which does not take advantage of funds from the State and the European Union to establish the roadmap needed for the economic and social restructuring of Galicia. Budgets that don't lay the foundations for the necessary change of the production model in Greece to move forward towards a more cohesioned, greener and more feminist country. Finally, Counselor, it's an ordinary account for an extraordinary situation. The crisis of the coward showed, moreover, the weaknesses of those who were already ill of the Greek economy and who were not overcome despite the economic growth continued during the years prior to the crisis, with a Galicia that had lost economic and demographic weight throughout the state, mainly due to the lack of a population-driven policy, the lack of industrial policy, the lack of incentives to the business sector, the abandonment of rural areas or the lack of investment in R & D+i, causing a talented escape to other economies and preventing many young people from having the opportunity to develop their vital project on their land, here in Galicia. And not only do we, Counsellor, not only say the Socialists, but we also say the recently published data of the Regional Competitiveness Report in Spain 2021, which say that Galicia is the seventh most exposed community to an incomplete and unequal economic recovery, losing a position in the ranking, shifted to the ninth square, and being located in the group of communities with a medium-low competitive level, in which only two communities have yielded positions, only two, among them, Galicia. And the experts at the General Council of Economists warn that Galicia is among the territories with an average risk of causing the transition to be derailed, both by its starting position and by the possible permanent and structural damage it could have suffered during the pandemic. They literally say, "low levels of productivity, human capital deficits, social inequality or insufficient digitization can cause the recovery of certain territories and make it difficult to achieve the goals pursued." And you here today will be portrayed, you will choose continuity with recipes that have already been failed, with more neoliberalism and less progressiveness, and benefiting those who have the most. They are still in time to rectify and accept the redistributive proposals for support for competitiveness and the welfare state presented by the socialists. This crisis also highlights the continuing cuts in public services since Feijóo is in Galician Union. At this point, Mr Counsellor, with a pandemic situation like the one we are living in, with vacancies that remind us that we cannot lower the guard and with the evidence of the precarious health of these twelve years of the People's Party in Galicia, the Government of Greece presents budgets that lower the allocation in primary care and in public health, while we attend every day the show of the President of the Council of Galicia, more anxious to blame President Sánchez than to solve our country's problems. [[Applause]] A downgrade to which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will press within a "yes" mouse, supporting a model that continues to be more precarious for public health and more business for private health, forgetting the need to introduce a change in the primary care model, looking elsewhere, when it becomes more evident that the need to keep watch and strengthen the system for its importance in all areas: health, economic and social. When they know, in addition, that mental health is the other wave that's worrying, and a lot. Look, Save the Children says Galicia is the third community with more mental health problems among its children, and in view of this reality, the Government of Greece does not provide enough resources to meet the health needs of men and women in our country. On the contrary, the socialists do not renounce universal, free and quality public health. You are going to vote against increasing EUR 115 million in the budget for public health, to which we propose socialists, who would increase the budget for primary care by more than EUR 70 million, would strengthen staff in the face of the dismissal of professionals who are doing Sergas, strengthen comarcas hospitals, increase investment in primary care infrastructures and strengthen the ambulance system. But you're going to retract and you're going to vote no. The Socialists also do not refuse to achieve universal, free and quality public education, so we propose to increase this budget by more than 79 million euros, which would provide the necessary resources with the reinforcement that needs public education, with more teachers, improving the food system, with measures to prevent school dropout, freeness at university rates, scholarships for students or rehabilitation and improving in educational centres, among others. But you're going to press "no" to this increase, but you're going to press "yes" to reduce to 15.4 million euros in special, secondary and vocational education, and complementary teaching services and aids. And yet you can still say that they are the greatest resources in history for families in education. The truth is that the German Government is the main exponent of political cynicism and lies without getting colored. The same is true of social policies, the third pillar of the welfare state. You will also vote 'no' to the increase that we have proposed by socialists to put from now on the resources necessary for the gratuitousness of children from 0 to 3 years old. They will vote 'no' to strengthen disability assessment teams, inspection personnel in residential and day centres, or early care services. And they will also vote 'no' to increase the provision of home help, a cost that basically supports the municipalities and which is urgent to increase so that all women who develop those jobs have decent wages and end up with their precaution. [[Applause]] They will also vote 'no' for a plan to fight poverty. And I want to stop at this point. The German Anti-Poverty Network, in its 2020 report, says that by 2020 we had 600,000 poor Greeks and Greeks, 22.1% of our total population, plus 2.1 points above the previous year. And for this exercise, Counsellor, for 2021 — with the highest budgets in history and which increased to EUR 1,575 million — in the third quarter of this year because we had 46,000 homes with all their members unemployed and 27,900 homes without income. But even with these evidences, you will vote "no" to our amendments and press "yes" to which the budgets you propose for social protection and integration, family and childhood benefits, social services for older and disabled people, support for conciliation or youth services. Finally, one shows more than for you the redistributive policies that contribute to reducing inequalities are science fiction. Faced with the redistributive proposals of the socialists, you continue to make politics that benefits those who have the most. And I'm going to give you, as always, several examples of those who benefit most from the People's Party's proposals. We socialists present a amendment that goes along the lines that points to the Board of Auditors itself in their monitoring reports year after year and that states that for each of the tax benefits approved, the objectives that are being pursued and the indicators of compliance are being established; that is, the effectiveness of these tax reductions is being verified and the ones that are benefiting most. You voted "no" in committee, and we suppose they're going to press "no" today. And I'm going to tell you what the reasons are for not approving this amendment, which would favor the principles of transparency and good government that are supposed to refuse all public policies. You're going to vote 'no' because in these budgets the largest increase in funds comes from the state and the European Union, while in this way you can continue with that fiscal marketing that announces tax reductions that little affects most of the population, being the measure with the greatest budgetary impact to decrease by 25% on the share of the property tax, favouring once again the most important minority and that something should also contribute to the economic reactivation of our land. For 2022 you yourself quantify that the reduction in the tax on wealth -- it's true that it was approved last year -- will assume a decrease of 17 million euros, 17 million euros, counsellor, who could be used for that primary care, would avoid that shameful decrease and would help reverse something the precariousness accumulated for twelve years of government Feijóo. Look, many of the tax benefits that this Government of the People's Party announces to bomb and dish consist of small gifts to selected taxpayers who have little impact on most of the population. You announce a discount in the IRPF which is EUR 1 a month for the average salary of the Greeks and the Greeks, i.e. they are around EUR 20,000, compared to EUR 492 a year in salaries from EUR 60,000. I mean, a discount that benefits more those who have the most, while for the vast majority that discount is going to be 1 euro, 1 euro a month, which only serves to whiten out propaganda ads of tax discounts from the Greek Government. For we socialists believe that those who earn much more should contribute something more to strengthen the welfare state, especially when we know that the gap between the highest incomes compared to the lowest ones has increased even further during this pandemic. In view of this expenditure, which for these accounts is the basis of the resources coming from the State and the European Union, the Council of Galicia has refused to address in the first quarter of 2022 the adoption of a local funding bill agreed with the Fegamp; refusing to increase the count of the Local Cooperation Fund, which has been frozen since the PP has ruled in the Galician Union at almost 113 million euros; or refusing to establish objective and agreed criteria for the distribution of grants and agreements, in order not to continue favouring those municipalities which have a Government of the People's Party as an objective criterion which it has the most weight. You know perfectly well that, as Feijóo spent his energies attacking President Sánchez, asking for more resources — which, by the way, then proves that he is unable to execute — he abandoned the Greek municipalities, without bringing any resources closer to them so that they could meet the new needs arising from the vault, but increasing their responsibilities and competences — as it has already been the case. Look, what would be, for example, about education centres if the municipalities did not take on the new needs, which exponentially increased the cost of keeping the centres in appropriate conditions to prevent the spread of the virus, when the competences are exclusive to the Galician Union? You know perfectly well that it brings you to the councils of the Greek Government to meet the emerging needs of the pandemic was zero euros — it does not give you the eyebrows, Counsellor — it is zero euros. And you will press "no" to our proposals... Mr. President... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u8	You'll press "no" on our proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u10	And our proposals would increase resources for the municipalities, up to EUR 119.5 million in the Local Cooperation Fund. An additional fund of EUR 12.7 million would be created to be distributed among all the municipalities, with criteria consistent with the Fegamp. An extraordinary fund would be created and social services and employment policies would be strengthened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u12	...—now finished, Mr President—infrafinanced year after year by this German Government. But you will vote "yes" to which the funding of the municipalities continues to be on the same levels as twelve years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u14	Well, as I have no more time, I finish my first intervention here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u15	Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u16	Thank you, President. Good day again. On this Sunday, the German Parliament celebrated its 40th anniversary and the commemoration made it inevitable to reflect on all the speeches on the difference that Galicia is going to begin in 2022 with regard to Galicia in 1981, in which even many of the people we are Members and Members are not even born at the moment. And in this budgetary debate that is going to end today, probably without any surprises, since the BNG, we have insisted on all our amendments, proposals and interventions in an idea that is key to us, which is that Galicia which is going to start this year next 2022 has nothing to do with the Galician one before the pandemic. We insist that in historical cycles there are times that are sometimes short, that they don't need the passage of four decades, but that they precipitate changes, and now we think we're in one of those moments. That's why, not only because of what I assumed in myself the pandemic, which is still with us, but because its existence also accelerates and conditions other changes to which we cannot put a sale before the eyes, we understand that these budgets are not adapted to reality. And I'm setting examples. For example, in the face of a climate crisis that poses an unprecedented challenge and brings under the arm also profound transformations of both society and productive systems, we obviously have a different situation. And from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the reflection we have made is that in the face of a different situation we must give different answers. However, the project being presented, Mr Counsellor — we must insist once again — we understand that it is anchored in the past, that it is a repetitive project of a government that in the best of cases intends to return our 2019 picture and that it is trapped in the past and inertia. And after two months of debate because nothing significant has changed. Unless that delay that you had to enter this chamber of almost nine minutes was because we will be given a surprise and they will correct some sense of vote in the votes, which seems unlikely to us, for from now on the People's Party will bring all the amendments submitted to the state of expenditure, 431 amendments, and will also fall most of the amendments presented by this group to the joint, 34 of 35. In short, the balance of an accepted amendment of 466 remains. I can't help but remember seeing you, Mr. Corgos, that when you started in office you made a lot of vows and blasphemous appeals to consensus, but, as it was to wait, because it was about what you played, a pose for the beginning of new activity, but you can apply what Quevedo wrote that no one offers as much as he will not fulfill, because the result we already see is what it will be. [[Applause]] And, jokes aside, the bad news is that you keep a roadmap that was already obsolete by the time these budgets entered the House Registry. But they were even more obsolete because in this long two-month process things happened, things happened around us, and we wanted to set an example. First example. It has worsened the set — that is undeniable —, it has worsened the supply crisis and industrial materials, for example, it has worsened the price rise — solely in the energy sector. We can set examples. The day the budget came into this chamber the megavatio/hour was at 201 euros, which was already a figure that beat historical records and faced serious problems; it wasn't much. But today, at the moment of approval, the price of megavatio/hour will exceed the 320 euros, its second most expensive record in history. Secondly, we can set more examples. It is clear that social inequality is worsening and underestimated. For example, after this project went through the board of directors, we saw the report by the German Network against Poverty, which tells us such important issues that population at risk of poverty or exclusion, known as the AROPE rate, has increased. Or that for the first time since 2009, the relative poverty rate in our country is above the state average; nearly 600,000 Greeks and Greeks were found in 2020 under the poverty line. And this data still doesn't show the full impact of the pandemic, because it's from 2020 itself. And, speaking of the pandemic, we also have to say that since the budget came into this chamber, the situation has been complicated. There are new uncertainties about their evolution. Today we hear the word omicron and it seems that it takes us a long time, it seems that it could be one of those words that in the polls that the academies do at the end of the word year could compete; but the truth is it wasn't until November 24, 2021 that WHO first spoke of it and notified the rest of the world of its existence. These, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Counsellor, are examples of three areas (economic, social and health) that show us to the clears such as this budget, the measures and forecasts they are already obsolete, are not adapted to the challenges we have in the next 2022. And, therefore, it is also obsolete the part we are debating in this part of the plenary, the articulated. We can define the articulation — so to speak — as the instruction manual, the budget instructions manual, the instruction manual to pilot the political decisions accompanying the numbers that will be approved today, which tells us how this budget will be carried out and how Vimbios support it. And instead of having a new instruction manual for a new reality, for new challenges and for a new horizon, we have the usual one: a repetitive articulation, in the background and in the form, a worse calccomany of the last thirteen years that Galicia thinks in small, which basically shows a mini-government that on Sundays prays for self-government but that Mondays governs without ambition. It's just like that. [[Applause]] It's good that they like the metaphor, Mr. Rodríguez, because doing Masses for self-government is very good, but it would be much better for you to use it. And let's give examples. First example. Of course, in this articulation, what you're doing is, once again, applauding the state framework for spending restrictions, which, although transitionally flexible, will return. You applaud him and take it up. That's gonna hurt Galicia. It will harm Galicia, among other reasons, because it gives the state more capacity for spending while we steal. A second example might be that not only do you bet on using your skills to drive a more fair and redistributive tax model but they go in the opposite direction. They don't press self-government to create new taxes, and what they already do is a clearly antisocial and regressive reform, which is further aggravated by the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group. A third example would be that they don't use the margin we have to shield public services. For a lot of literature that accompanies the powerpoints of their presentations, they sink into the private drainage, and then we'll give examples. And we can also say, lastly, that it does not include extraordinary measures to boost public participation in the economy at a time when the industrial crisis in this country is on already unbearable limits and that it has names and names like Alcoa or Vestas, which do not find solutions in these budgets either. So we insist: this articulate is not the instruction manual that Galicia needs for the economic decisions it has to make immediately. So since the BNG we have presented a battery of amendments, 35 amendments to this articulate, alternatives that mark a different roadmap, a change of course, and what should be the guarantees to allow the exit to this crisis to be a fair exit and a Welsh exit that takes advantage of the great potential that we have as a country. By means of these amendments, within the limitations of a text like this, we mark this horizon. I'd like to point out some of the ones that seem most relevant to us and that you're going to vote against. First of all, we propose a block of amendments to really shield public services. This is the case with Amendment No 3, paragraph 1, adding Article 9, which is something so important right now, in which we are going to predict a reduction in income and a reduction in budgetary capacity, as you are committed to making budgetary changes — which are also quite specialized in doing so — but, in any case, if you have to reduce appropriations, this will not in any case affect basic public services. For example, if for some reason the Spanish State — oh, surprise! — does not comply with the questions it has addressed with Galicia; if for some reason the European funds are delayed in their transfer; if for some reason any estimate of income was real, because the economic situation is worse, and therefore they come down, that you commit that you will not affect at any time, as you did during the crisis and the management of 2009, to the most basic public services — scenarios all of them who have just described nothing unreal — and who commit that they will not touch health, that they will not touch social politics or teach. Because, in addition, we know that this is the final stage of this flexibilization of the deficit framework, that you already applaud that we are going to return to it, the Bank of Spain warns you of this, that you have to tighten your belt. So there's no paradigm shift, and this is going to add the conditionality of European funds, which we don't know much yet. So it would seem especially important to us, and you're going to say no. They're going to say "no" too, for example, to Amendment No 23, which deepens that public services are not used for public-private collaboration mechanisms, which were ruinous, like the case of Vigo Hospital. We propose more vigorous and restrictive measures to curb the decapitalization that you make of the public system in such areas as social policy. Because these budgets sink in that line. Nothing more and nothing less than EUR 74 million will go to private hands again in the case of residences to finance companies, such as DomusVi, who do business with old age. And, therefore, we understand that this doesn't have to be the way. And I insist on that example that I set at Vigo Hospital, in which it rains on wet. Because also, if we examine over the course of time the ruinous business that was, we see how it is increasing the bill and how in these budgets, if we add up issues like the framework agreement to carry out derivations of diagnostic tests and surgical interventions in private hospitals in the Vigo area, we have as much as a cost of more than 160 million euros for private health in one of the most populated areas in this country, when you could act to provide services directly from the public system. So we have to insist, once again, that, seeing these budgets, you are, once again, like that evil reverse of Robin Hood, who drains public resources to provide private and non-competitive companies as well as selectively. So this isn't our model and we're showing these amendments that there would be an alternative. Secondly, I would like to talk about proposing another block of amendments to strengthen the public staff in the service of the Greek administration, because there can be no good administration or good public services if there is no staff working on it. And, therefore, we insist on amendments aimed at the recovery of rights, rights that have been suspended, such as those of the Fifth Collective Staff Convention on Boarding's work force over ten years ago and which are not recovered and which speak of something as elementary as the enjoyment of holidays. Or Amendment No. 9, to Article 13, concerning the recruitment of temporary staff from the Union. We must insist: there are not only the numerous judgments that are coming out these days, but also that Democrat report of the Board of Auditors of what we have already talked about in this chamber and which tells us that Galicia is one of the few communities that today has less staff in the service of the Public Administration than ten years ago. If that's not cut, I don't know if you'll call it evaporation of public personnel, but of course it's reality and it's added to the abuse of temporary recruitment. [[Applause]] Or Amendment No 20 — which is very good for Mr Rodríguez to accompany us in this debate — which mentions the appointment of the interim teacher in part-time at non-university schools. We also insist on amendments to shield public education, because that report of the Board of Auditors also tells us that you have the dubious merit of having destroyed 2,500 teaching squares in public education in this country, 2,500, 2,500. [[Applause]] There's a back-up of eyebrows. We don't know if the Board of Auditors is now embroiled by the spirit of Venezuela, Bildu and some kind of radicality, but of course it's a statutory body that we respect, which has just made a demolition report, and who has to explain, instead of raising the eyebrows, is the German Government. In any case — if to finish — there is a third block — we might say so — of amendments that basically seek to deepen the improvement of budgetary management, of public resources, which are not from the Government of Greece, which are from all the Greeks and the Greeks, transparency, objectivity, in areas as important as the local entities, to prevent the Board of Galicia from continuing to be the operative modus of the Ourense Parliament, which has objective criteria for local authorities, which also improves the control of transparency and equity. And that's where we got a little bit of lottery: an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted. I'm going to thank you for not saying we're not grateful and grateful. It is an amendment which basically shortens the deadline for forwarding information to the German Parliament from thirty to ten days. I don't want to be any less important to you. Now, it's a matter that with today's technology, it's not the greatest exponent of transfer and consensus there could be on the part of the German Government. In any case, the gratitude remains in the record, but also the reflection that, without taking it into account, for us is absolutely insufficient. In this context, therefore, if there are no changes in the direction of vote, in the sense of acceptance of amendments, in our band there will also be no changes in our negative position, because this articulated, of course, is not the instruction manual that our country needs to think about a future with ambition, to think about a large Galician and to leave behind the negative impacts it has at this time the economic cycle we are living in. So this question is over. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. I think it is unworthy that, ten days after the Supreme Court's judgment was known for the plug of Mrs Carmela Silva's sister-in-law, the president of the Pontevedra deputy not only continues in his office but has also been relieved of the PSdEG-PSOE presidency by the new secretary general. Indignity, completely unworthy of who does it and unworthy of who supports it, of whom from the Nationalist Block Galego in Vigo asks for explanations and in Pontevedra keeps it in its position. That's the opposition we have in Galicia. [[Applause]] That's the reality. Mrs. Presas, allow me to start with a joke. The truth is that we accept an amendment and will vote against it, and with the Socialist Party, which did not accept them in the process of State budgets, you abstain there. That's the rigor of the Galician Nationalist Block. You talk about the price of light and look at us? Look at your partners. Who rules in Spain, Mrs. Presas? I know that you would be more comfortable at this point if the People's Party had ruled in Spain to be able to criticize everything, but it governs the Socialist Party, in addition to its responsibility, because you have done so as President of the Government with your vote, with that deputy who does so much for Galicia; carallo!, look at what made the President of the Government Pedro Sánchez. That is the great achievement of the Galician Nationalist Block in this mandate. Madrid governs its partners. And, therefore, when he speaks of the rising of light, look at Mr. Aranguena, who so much arms, because they no longer let him speak. Look at them. Look, less mantras. The private health expenditure, the concerts, was greater when the Galician Nationalist Block was ruling in Galicia than now, twelve years later. So, Mrs. Presas, less mantras, less mantras. You criticize education, but how dare you criticize education if we are the second autonomous community with fewer pupils per class, with fewer students per teacher? How dare we strengthen the teacher during the pandemic with 2,300 teachers when necessary? We've created 10,600 new squares in the last five years. That's our commitment to education. So we don't accept any of your criticisms. And, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I understand that he is now very far away, but soon he will be too close, and I understand that he has to make points for this to happen. But the truth is, no matter how desperate the situation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is at the moment, what we cannot do is come to this chamber lying, literally lying. Look, health budgets. We've increased the health budget by 30% since we got to the government, and who was ruling before? You guys. We invest in public health by 30% more than you. We have 15% more professionals than when you ruled; in public health, 42,000 professionals, fewer waiting lists, more health centers. We have created or reformed 90 health centers since we've been in the German Government. More and better hospitals, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo: a new hospital in Vigo, public; a new hospital in Lugo, we put it into action. Works of improvement and reform and expansion in all of Galician comarcas hospitals. The new CHUAC, the great Montecelo, expands by Ferrol, initiates the proceedings in Santiago and also in Ourense. Like the president would say, what are we accused of? Look, we bet on public health by putting resources on the table. [[Applause]] And, therefore, we do not accept his criticism. You tell us about cuts and increases, when the only thing that increases the Socialist Party is taxes. That's what you forgot, you didn't say anything at all. His model is to raise taxes to all the Greeks, just like the Government of Spain, the Socialist Government. We are very proud of the budgets that we bring to this chamber for its final approval, in time and in form, the highest budgets in Galicia's history. They grow by 6,9 % compared to the previous year. Social expenditure increases: 610 million euros more than the year 2021. Where is the cut, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo?, where is the cut? We increased social expenditure: 4.580 million for public health, 2.695 million for public education, 987 million for social services and 395 million for employment. That is the budget of what we feel tremendously proud of. More investment for local entities, as much as it bothers you, and as much as you try to lie and deceive everyone. Local funding increases EUR 81 million for the year 2022. "Don't give it to your head, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo." You can't come to this camera lying. We've increased investment in local entities, it's the biggest investment in local entities in our Community's history, 500 million euros, in these budgets, 81 million euros more than this year. That's the reality. Look, investment in public universities is growing, as the principals of the Greek universities have recently applauded. We reduce taxes, of course, because we are in a difficult situation and we don't want to be a burden added to the families of the Greeks and the Greeks; you, yes. You are a politician from the Government of Spain, putting your hand in the pocket of all Spaniards and taking money away from the domestic economies, at the moment they need it most. You're talking about your mantra, the old mantra, the cut mantra. What's cut is the Socialist Party's genius, because you follow the same criticisms even though we're with expansive budgets. Social expenditure — I said — EUR 8.660 million, EUR 610 million more than this year. Health expenditure increases in 2022 269 million euros more than this year. Where's the cut, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? The spending on education increases 179 million euros more than this year will be 2,695 million euros. Where's the cut, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? Social policy expenditure, EUR 126 million more in 2022 than in 2021, reaches EUR 987 million. Where's the cut, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? EUR 37 million more in active employment policies for the year 2022. 37 more than this year 2021, up to EUR 395 million. Where are the cuts, gentlemen of the Socialist Party? There's no them, there's no them. That's the reality. I am going to focus on the amendments to the joint tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, and I would like to explain the three amendments to our group. The first one has to do with the new line of housing aid for young people that the Galician Union will launch by the year 2022. The aim of this initiative is to support the purchase of the first housing to young people under 35 years of age, granting mortgage credit insurance up to 15% of the total purchase value. This would allow, together with the usual funding offered by banking agencies, young Greeks can finance 95% of the purchase of their first home. The second and third amendments have to do with the use of unexecuted accounts from the Continent Fund. We propose to create a public investment guarantee mechanism, which will be equipped with the remaining budgetary credit. This is an instrument that will provide funding to ensure the normal execution of planned investments in the multiannual budget. And finally, we want to incorporate a fourth amendment, which is of a technical nature, on the date of entry into force of these budgets. Your Honor, Christmas is a time of tradition. The families will be gathered, the trees and the beauts will be placed in the houses — not those of the Block, but the rest will be — they will be bought towerers and Mazapans and the opposition parties will present -- this is also a tradition -- the same amendments as ever. [[Murmurs.]] To see this camera read their own amendments, that's a Christmas tradition. It's just as much as the problems and needs of Galician society change, it's the same as changing budgets, even if there's a global pandemic. What never changes is the little imagination of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. 90% of the amendments presented by the groups are already seen; we saw them last year, the previous year, the previous year and the previous year. The PSdEG repeats 60 amendments, it only makes 9 news; and the Galician Nationalist Block, more conservative, repeats 31 amendments, there are only 4 new ones. You see -- I know you're very upset with criticism -- that much did not work, that's reality. But this has already been explained to us a year ago by Mr Rivera, when he said that they did not make a lot of effort because, in total, we always voted against them. No, gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the BNG, we voted against them because they are not positive and they are not good for Galicia and for the Greeks. And so I have to tell them the same thing we've been telling them over the last few years. Look, half of your amendments are of impossible material execution or non-compliance with legal obligations. That's the opposition we have in Galicia. The other half are unacceptable, for removing games that are essential for the work of the Self-Government. And thirdly, in many cases, ladies and gentlemen, amendments are contradictory to one another. Yes, you will vote for each other, amends that are contradictory, because, hey!, for that they rule where they can, right? for to rely on hard and mature. Look, about the amendments to the Socialist Party's articulated, like every year, they propose changes that cannot be made by this legislative procedure, most because they have other budgetary mechanisms that are more suitable for carrying them out, such as the expandable character that try to incorporate into multiple budgetary applications and that in case of need can be carried out through ordinary budget figures, and already provided for in the vigorative legislation. They present multiple amendments to request legislative clarifications that are not necessary, because they are already collected in various regulations or are simply redundant. They want to limit the powers of the Conseilante de Fanda and his advisor, in order to redeploy remnants of credit — yes, that's right — which goes against budgetary flexibility, which has also proved so necessary throughout this time of pandemic. [[Murmurs.]] They propose several amendments to change the Local Cooperation Fund, but, as you should know, any changes to the current functioning of the Local Cooperation Fund requires a prior modification of the system of autonomous and local financing, which requires that since Galician union if you have repeatedly asked the Central Government to be repeatedly and never heard, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. They propose the increase of multiple transfers without determining how to finance them. And finally, I want to emphasize that they are asking for the creation of a new fund for municipalities worth 12.7 million euros, which have exactly the same destinations as the additional fund of this Budget Act. That's the reality, little original, to ask what's already envisaged at the bottom; ultimately, to do what they do. On the amendments to the articulate of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, I mean, it's curious that its amendments attack all levels of the current legal order; they do not leave autonomous, national or community regulations without failure to comply. What's more, if we're in the opposition and we don't aspire to much more! Most of your amendments propose a year longer than the 3% increase in pay, which, as you know, does not allow the state's basic regulations, but you propose the same. Why? To be all right. But if they know it can't be done! Why don't you ask where to ask for it? Oh, it's just that the PSOE doesn't count on you, of course! This budget already includes the maximum wage increase allowed by law. The State's basic rules also do not allow for changes in the extraordinary payments or other proposals of this kind made by the BNG. As you will understand, the budgets of the Galician Union must comply with the current legislation, and their proposals should also be fulfilled, if they want to be a serious opposition; if they want to remain the kind of opposition that has been going on for the last few decades, because they continue on that path, but the logic would be that the proposals brought by the Galician Nationalist Block were adapted to the current legislation, because if not, we are debating ourselves as a trap. That's what the Galician Nationalist Block usually does, makes traps, proposes questions that know they don't comply with the current legislation, and which is therefore impossible to execute, impossible to comply with. They propose again to delete the articles that regulate the modules of concerted education. If we did, we would automatically leave without paying the salaries of thousands of teachers from the concert centres in Galicia and leave thousands of children without schooling from January 7. I suppose BNG doesn't care either, because since they don't have any responsibility, because they're proposing issues of impossible execution, illegal issues, because this can do BNG, which is an anti-system party, but do you know it's the most serious? The most serious thing is that we will see the Socialist Party voting in favour of these issues in this House. That's the opposition we have in Galicia. Oh, come on! They show an absolute disregard of the autonomous rules on subsidies by proposing measures such as advance payment that have been planned or in use for many years. They just don't know. They do an opposition so disastrous that they don't even know what's already in operation, and not a year ago, for many years. It's very nice to be protesting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u20	...for everything, but then you have to know what happens in the country where you oppose. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u21	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Roll to get defined on the amendments. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, I just want to do three points. The first one. Mrs. Carmela Silva has not been, nor is she charged, has never been investigated, has no conviction and has no open cause. And by the way, he didn't have "no fucking bag." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It would be good if you looked at all the members with responsibility of the People's Party with open causes, who looked at the number of People's Party convicts or the lies cast by former president "M. Rajoy" in parliamentary headquarters, in the Congress of Deputies, where he denied that the People's Party was condemned for corruption. So, lessons of honesty from the People's Party, none. [[Applause]] Second time, Mr. Tellado. The Local Cooperation Fund, the unconditional fund approved in 2000 and the 12 years of the People's Party's government, remains to be EUR 113 million—cases—and, if not, ask the mayors and mayors of their party. Third point. The internal and organizational issues of our group and party are not their responsibility; we solve them where we have to solve them. On the other hand, you cannot speak of little workers, because you, the People's Party Parliamentary Group, with 42 Members, have tabled 16 amendments, compared to the 563 tabled by our parliamentary group. [[Applause]] I don't want to finish my speech without expressing again the worrying demographic situation in our country. There's going to be a year of the adoption of this law of demographic impulse, which took twelve years to pass, but it seems that, like many others you take advantage of, they're going to be paper rights, because they're only left on paper. Because the policies that can reverse the demographic indentation of our country are quality employment, decent and affordable housing, and public services of quality near citizenship. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will press "yes" to cut by 25% the work and personal life reconciliation matches; you will press "yes" to lower by 43 million euros the provision of employment promotion or improvement of employment qualification; and you will press "yes" to reduce, for the second consecutive year, youth-related games. While they will vote 'no' to the Socialists' proposal to increase the budget for the improvement of employability. Because they look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, without quality jobs, there's no law of demographic impulse that works. You are also going to vote "yes" to the policies of the Galician Union at home expressed in these budgets for 2022, when the only resources allocated to the housing access program are EUR 40 million, which basically come from the state and are less than half as intended in 2008, when the Council chaired Galician Union Emilio Pérez Touriño, despite the fact that the data from the Housing Applicants' Register in Galicia continues to collapse of 15,000 registered units of cohabitation, representing about 50,000 Welsh and Galician people waiting for a housing. And by the way, it's exactly the same figure as when they approved the 2015-2020 Housing Plan; that is, one more show that you approve things for then don't do anything; that's, that's, that's what they've been constantly used to in twelve years of People's Party government. [[Applause]] Do you know, Counselor, that there are nearly 320,000 young men and women in Greece between 15 and 34 years old who are forced to live with their parents because they cannot be emancipated, because there is no decent and affordable housing in our country they can choose from, and that is 67% of the population in that age range? By the way, it's the highest ever since there's records, according to the INE Home Continue Survey. Today you will approve an budget for 2022 which lacks an approach and measures necessary for the economic, social and health reconstruction that Galicia needs. A budget that does not provide answers to the main challenges to boost economic growth, decrease inequality and job creation. A budget which waives the adoption of more ambitious and important measures than those envisaged in this Community Budget Bill for 2022 submitted by the current Government of Galicia. So our vote, the vote of the Socialists, will be the same as what we say in committee, will be against the ruling presented. These budgets should be in keeping with the new circumstances, with the learning of the event during these more than 20 months since the alarm status was decreed. They must have been some budgets they had thought of today's Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u24	...in their problems and in their present needs, with a look at the future, in the short term, to meet the immediate and, in the long term, to lay the foundation for the economic and social change of the future that we need so much. But you are again presenting budgets that are once again a lost opportunity, where they use the same programs again, only with an increase in counts, but without adjusting to new needs arising, without reversing cuts in public services, in the twelve years of Government Feijóo and without decisively betting on industrial impulse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u26	...and business. I'm done, Mr. President. These are budgets that will not seek the transformation that Galicia needs to achieve a society more socially and territorially, greener and more feminist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u28	...so our vote will be against. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u30	Silence! Put your tone down there. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, you came on fire. I don't know if you've had a lot of coffee today or if it's because you think the official sector saved the furniture in Vigo so little by hair. I don't know very well. Now, since you devote a lot of your intervention and your interventions in general in this House to explaining to the BNG what we are, to see if you're explaining to us a little bit about your Vigo role as well. Because the one in Ourense I understand most, in general, because, even though they then keep Jacome in government, there's as much a collective assumption of the shame that causes them to do so, even though they then vote in another direction. [[Applause]] But Vigo's, of course... I'd ask him where the 4,500 militants of the People's Party didn't vote, because I think they voted over six hundred and you spoke more than five thousand. Like they do budget accounts like they do this guy's accounts, of course, at the end of the day... [[Applause]] However, of course, one of Mr Tellado's fundamental criticisms is that we have tabled amendments that we have submitted for years. Of course I do. How are we not going to present similar amendments if the articulate you present to us is a slander of the years before? Well, in logical coherence, we continue to defend the same economic lines and request similar amendments. That's why you, as you have the same articulate in a context that has radically changed the future of this country and they are unable to innovate, have to devote themselves here to making TV commentators. Anyway, I'll answer some questions for allusions. The price of light. Of course I look at you. First, because they designed the current framework - the People's Party was designed in its entirety, although the Socialist Party never changed it. And secondly, because you can do something in these budgets so that Galicia's producer role has some kind of benefit or so that Galician society can face this. Of course we're looking at you. I teach. It's a shame Mr. Rodriguez has already left. You're talking about classroom students. I'm surprised, because this parliamentary group has, since the beginning of the legislation, registered articles 9 asking for student data by class and you don't forward them. Then you will have that privileged information. Please pass it to our education spokesman. Or, for example, data on urban ratios as well. [[Applause]] You pass that data and we see what massification is in the urban classrooms, Mr. Tellado, because you've had 2,500 teacher squares in ten years, in the first ten years of government. That's what the Board of Auditors says. It's not something BNG is saying. So this is not done without prejudice to public education in this country. And if you want us to talk about where your cuts are, because let's talk about the accumulated cuts, for example, of teaching, with an accumulated disinvestment of more than two billion euros since you rule; or primary care, with 47 million euros less in today's budget than in 2009 — no more taking into account the evolution of costs, which we would then be talking about nearly 300 billion euros less. But let's go to the cuts that are also in this budget in respect of last year's budget; like, for example, at a time when it's obvious that women are suffering from the degradation of public services and this crisis is going to be going back to the home of many women in the role of caregivers, you're throwing more than half a million euros in co-responsibility games; but so, cheerfully, and the Government then promises equality plans, which, by the way, does not meet in your public administration, or, for example, one and a half million euros less in school luncheons, etc. And then there's nothing more unrealistic than the Union's own budgets, because the People's Party criticizes BNG's amendments because we amend badly and we don't know how to do things right, etc. But, of course, you paint one thing in budgets that then is science fiction. And since we have Mrs. Quintana here, we can make the unrealistic budgets of the Council of the Sea an example. You'd already excuse that advice, because, for what you run, it was better than you directly didn't. Or the same with regard to the Housing Council, because at a time when these poverty figures translate into that many people are unable to bear the increase in housing prices, where there is a fundamental problem in residential exclusion, you have splits like Program 451B, of access to housing, which do not run either, where there are 2 out of 3 euros without spending. [[Applause]] And above all, they do not imply in their budgets any model change either. Anyway, I'm done now because if I don't, I don't have time to take a last thought. The great nearness of the People's Party to this debate is that there are legal and illegal things that decide them by the Government of the People's Party, and that one can or can not debate in this German Parliament, which gives an idea of its democratic quality. Mr Tellado, I say: look, if we can come here, to this Parliament, to debate some of the cries that you are trying to put into the daily political life of this country, because, of course, we are going to debate fundamental amendments to this country such as those presented by the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, precisely, the autonomic corset is so exhausted — as our national spokesperson described this Sunday in this House — that even you, in your amendments, make amendments to the Accompanying Law that might be referred to by the Constitutional Court. It's just that the autonomic frame is small even on the right side of the gap that you are, Mr. Tellado! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, he's also wrong on a matter he said, which is that we don't aspire to more. Look, of course, no one does any opposition — about all opposition — better than you — I recognize it —; now, indeed, we aspire to much more. And so bad opposition we won't do if we've left that Sceneic behind what you've been talking about in the previous legislation. We obviously aspire to more, we aspire to rule this country... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u33	...we aspire to have the presidency of the Union and we aspire to use the political power of this country to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr. Tellado. And, of course, we'll keep working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u35	I'm done, Mr. President. This articulate is not the instruction manual we need for Galicia in the future. And we've kept these amendments and kept our vote against this articulated that the People's Party presents because it's time for more self-government and using this self-government to think of a large Galician government, to strengthen public services and to push for a fair economic and social model change. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u37	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, it seems that Mrs. Carmela Silva is an exemplary policy. Yes, it was the only one who failed to fulfil his obligation to enter the budget procedure in the 3rd Commission of this Parliament. In good time! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, you want me to tell you I seem to be, according to you, that Mrs. Carmela Silva has nothing to do with the plug of Carmela Silva's sister-in-law. If you're happy with those explanations, what am I going to tell you? [[Murmurs.]] Look, if you represent Mrs. Carmela Silva, because she is the president of your party, in good time! but let me tell the Greeks who is the main representative of the Greek socialists: Mrs. Carmela Silva, who just put her sister-in-law in the Vigo Town Hall and who took her to prison for nothing but five years; for charging 100,000 euros of the public era without going to work. Well, listen, that's Mrs. Carmela Silva and that's Mrs. Carmela Silva's sister-in-law. [[Murmurs.]] And if you represent them, congratulations! Congratulations! There you are! What I can tell you is that the socialist concelers didn't return their pockets and my companion Paula Prado, yes, of course they did. [[Applause]] That's what makes us different. [[Applause]] Mrs. Paula Prado is in no way Carmela Silva and in no case is she like Carmela Silva. [[Applause]] Look, he's talking about ears. You spoke of the Local Cooperation Fund. It's not 116 million, it's 138 million euros, 20 percent more. You don't know, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Local cooperation funds and city councils agreements grow by 20 per cent to around EUR 500 million. And, Mrs. Presas, what's going on in Vigo? I'll tell him! [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Listen to his only conchler in Vigo, who has asked Mrs. Carmela Silva for an explanation. Do you know what's going on? That the BNG in Vigo asks for explanations and the BNG in Pontevedra supports Mrs. Carmela Silva. That's the BNG, you're the same everywhere! You complain that you don't know the student data by class. Hey!, it's published, it's data from the Ministry of Education. Another thing is that your Member of Education does not understand. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document.]] They're published, they're official sources. [[Murmurs.]] We are the second autonomous community with fewer students per class, and you should be satisfied and you should be happy because it's a good data. [[Murmurs.]] But for you, if it's a good data for Galicia, they think it's a good data for the government of Beijóo, and for you to prolze. That's the problem of Greek nationalism: you are more sectarian than defenders of Galicia's interests. We're the second community with the lowest student/teacher ratio. What about BNG? [[Murmurs.]] No, BNG's prolific. Look, as far as they're concerned, these are big budgets for Galicia. These are budgets that don't cut, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have to start that basic lesson from what comes up and what goes down. These are budgets that raise social expenditure; 600 million euros more than this year 2021. "More" is more, it's not cropping, it's increasing. So stop lying, because people in the street don't believe them. Look, it goes up social spending, 600 million more; it goes up spending in education, it goes up spending in health care, it goes up spending in social policy and it goes up spending in employment. That's the reality. Do you know what the Government of Spain, its Government, the budgets of its President, President Sánchez? The taxes, to drown all families, to drown all businesses and to break the competitiveness of the economy across the country. [[Murmurs.]] You propose here that we do the same, that we drown families, that we drown companies with more taxes. Don't count on us for that; for that there is already the Socialist Party and We can; for that there is already Mrs. Ana Pontón's band of bakers, who come here to make the Socialist Party choirs. That's what the Galego Nationalist Block has become, the one traveling in a Scene and now, after almost twenty years — half of the stage of autonomy — running carpets, now, actually, they don't go to Sceneic anymore. Well, congratulations to you, but the reality is, are you useful to Galicia? I think you're not; you're only useful to your own political party. And that's why the Greeks, when they were consulted about those who wanted him to rule in Galicia, decidedly, stubbornly, they said he had ruled the People's Party; and you sent them to the opposition. They distributed different seats, but they gave them less, and to us more. And you know why? Because we have a single pact that is with the Greeks to shield Galicia from the three crises we face: the pandemic health crisis, the pandemic economic crisis and a third crisis, which causes the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who attacks our families by cutting their income, which attacks our businesses, endangers thousands of jobs. And in the meantime, the BNG, what does he do? BNG pulls out the pandereta and choirs Mr. Sanchez. Quite regrettable is the role of the Greek nationalism representing Ana Pontón and his group!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u39	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u41	We're going to continue working for Galicia by making the budgets that Galicia needs. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u42	I understood that the "slippers" is in a colloquial tone. Because, besides you, Mr. Rivas, it's precisely not a pandereterete, it's one more... something higher. [[Protests.]] [[Laughter]] Let's leave it there, top of it. [[Murmurs.]] But I didn't consider it in the tone of wanting to insult, No, please! [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] Man, I don't think so! Let's say it's a metaphorical expression that was used here, but not with the intention of insulting, if not, we wouldn't consent to it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, I think that, well, we're in Christmas time and today also used expressions that were not supposed to be used here, but that I'm not going to correct because they're part of the common dialectics, of what we're talking about there, I think... someone told me around here an expression that why I didn't order to pull that out... well, because it's already something dialectically assumed: admiration... you know where I was going, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, that. So I'm not going in there. Now, you moderate language, of course. I'm not going in on it. Well, let's go on. Mr. Caballero, can you let me know? Can you come? Where is he? [[Pause.]] [[Pause.]] Well, let's go with the joint expenditure debate, which is chapter II. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We began with the turn of the parliamentary groups to explain their position on the Commission's ruling. And, in this case, you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez for a time of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of an budgetary debate which is of immense importance to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And, of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we face this debate with responsibility of country, from an alternative position that maintains the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, but, undoubtedly, with the vocation of trying to guide a reactivation that is fundamental to the Greeks and to the Greeks. I wanted to start this speech with a reminder of who was the councillor of the Fairy of this Government, Valeriano Martínez, who, of course, we missed, and also wanted to point out how he worked from his political choice by a better Galicia. And I also want to apologize for my presence at the tribute you gave this week, to which, for the reasons of schedule, I could not attend. I wanted to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the country's economic situation is a fundamental issue for the time ahead. I have said in this House insistently that in the history of our country 2020 was the year of the arrival of the pandemic, that 2021 was and is the year of vaccination and that 2022 must be the year of the recovery of Galicia poscovid towards a new stage. And we also know that the health situation is marking all the keys to economic evolution, that everything that has to do with the economy over the past two years has been marked by the situation of a pandemic that has prevented normal economic functioning and has forced states and public authorities to make exceptional levels of intervention and to be able to promote a welfare situation that would provide protection for citizenship, while at the same time boosting the main macroeconomic variables. And that's why the situation in the shed continues to worry us all and all because the pandemic marks the recovery and the economic situation. And we have to point it out a year after the last budgetary debate, a year after we know that vaccination has set a new time for public health and also for the economy. A year ago we were debating how to save Christmas, and now we have to debate how to deal with economic challenges bearing in mind the risks of a sixth wave that we all have to worry about. Because today in Galicia there are more than 300 new contacts in one day, there are 15,856 citizens and infected Greek citizens, 241 hospitalized and 51 people in ICU, and because we know that the rate of infection is being particularly high. Everyone we're here knows some people -- like all the Greeks and Greeks -- who are currently infected, confined or in observation, and many of them are also hospitalized. The health issue must be the key issue in addressing economic reactivation as well. Of course, we have always supported all the health protection measures that the Government of the Union has adopted with the report of the clinical committees and we want to continue to do so, but we must also evaluate all the forecast and measures of the sixth wave with realism in what it has to do with the holes and masks abroad, which are relevant, but which, in any case, in Galicia are being used in a common and generalized manner by the population and also the challenges we have of tracking and testing antigens for the prevention of the virus. We have to face the challenges of the sixth wave with correctness, in a situation where evolution is getting worse than expected when the foundations of these budgets have been established, and this will also mark what the economic evolution of the country will be and what the action of the Government of the Union must be in the face of the evolution of the pandemic situation over the coming months, because we know that we need to face this challenge with all solvency in the field of public health and in the field of health. That's why the Government of Unity must always be aware of this evolution and update its budgets and measures for a Galician that continues to suffer from the virus's situation on a daily basis. And we're saying this, in addition, at a time when it's also true that the latest macroeconomic forecast data show that the evolution that is taking place is not an abrupt evolution of economic recovery, as some people have been suggesting. Now we know that the economic growth in Galicia last year has fallen over 9%, that this year we will be growing more than 5%, about 6%, and that there are forecasts that can indicate that next year the growth rate of our economy may be in the same field, but everything will depend on how we deal with these health challenges and the pandemic. And we want to point it out as well in a Galicia where the economy is going to mark the challenges of the generation of employment, inequality and well-being, in which there are more possibilities, because today we are voting on budgets that incorporate European funds and extraordinary funds from the Government of Spain that allow the Union of Galicia to spend much more than it did in ordinary matters. And there are also some budgets in which Galicia will be able to live with an increase of double 30%; an increase of 31% of European funds entering the budgets of the Union. It must be pointed out that more than 500 million euros enter the mechanism of resilience and recovery, by the way against which the People's Party voted. With the vote of Mr. Married in Congress it would be prevented that in these budgets more than 500 million euros could strengthen the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, and would also coincide with an increase in State investment in Galicia by 29% in the general government budget. So there are possibilities and you have to see how to deal with them. We want Together to manage the times with the greatest successes. But we are also concerned because we see how the Government of the Union continues to make the inertia of an accounting document its reference axis of economic policy, using the mechanisms within the sphere of competence, debt, public expenditure, regular funding, but without having the ability to have a guidance to move forward to Galicia and to boost the future of Galicia. The budgets of the Galician Union are not up to what the Greeks and the Greeks need. Missing project, we've wasted an opportunity, and we're not guaranteed the three driving keys to economic modernization, well-being and employment generation, and besides lack of dialogue, lack of willful agreement, and they're similar budgets in the absolute majority of the People's Party. And these budgets are budgets in which the Government of the People's Party for the year 2022 is allowed to increase by 6% the spending on trusted staff and cabinets while firing 868 reinforcement teachers and over 500 health professionals. These are budgets that disregard the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks and which fail to meet the priorities of our country. These are right budgets, a conservative model; no model, no strategy. They're budgets where you lack a model for reactivation, they lack commitment to the public and they don't have a commitment to social policies. I want to ask the People's Party to have the courage to guide the future that it doesn't show with the apathy it has to manage the present. It can't be a government that speaks to each of the fundamental challenges our country has; it can't be a government that doesn't have an answer to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks from day to day. These budgets give no solution, as I have already said in this Parliamentary House, to the many Greeks that are listening to us. With these budgets there is no solution to the long-term unemployed in our country. With these budgets there is no solution to the elders who are waiting for a square in a public residence. With these budgets there is no single solution for those affected by the industrial crises in Galicia in different areas, from The Navy to Ferrolterra or the Ence. With these budgets, you give no more possibilities to public services, to health, to education, to social policies, to the Greeks living in rural areas, who continue to see how they have fewer possibilities, fewer options and that there are no key issues such as generational relief or what is obvious in these days, the problems with the dairy sector and the improvement in the price of milk. With these budgets you are not moving forward in the equal solutions for the Greeks and the Greeks and especially on the issues of equality that refer to women. There's no progress, there's no project; neither is there for the boys and girls, who still see the few possibilities to live in the country. It is therefore the moment when the Government of the Union, after twelve years in front of Autonomy, should also understand that in new times new policies are needed to win the future, because you give many indicators that Galicia has grown over the last few years in many issues. [[Applause]] And it's true that over the last 40 years we've had 40 years of prosperity, democracy, self-government and progress. Of course we're much better than forty years ago, but if you take the main indicators, in comparison, Galicia's position remains in line on many fundamental issues. The whole scenario of the Western world of Europe and Spain has made substantial progress in these last 40 years of peace, progress and modernization. Of course we did it in Galicia, too. But the comparative position that Galicia holds for the Greeks and the Greeks has not changed substantially, we continue to be in line in many respects. The only key you're trying to highlight is the fact that in a Galician with fewer people, with less busy population, with less real employment, we have a per capita breakdown of certain variables that can show a false vision that's not real. If you are satisfied that in Galicia there are certain increases per capita resulting from an increasingly ageing population, that we are less and less, that young people are out of the country and that there are fewer busy populations, the fundamental fact of the country is that when you arrived at the Galician Union, you were unaware of the reality in which we live the Greeks and the Greeks. So over this time, we knew there were two ways to deal with an economic crisis. The crisis could be dealt with as you did, when they ruled after the great recession, with right-wing policies, with policy cuts, with policies that distrust the public; or they could be confronted with different policies, which are the ones that are marking the governments of progress in this serious situation that we have by the pandemic and which are policies of progress that allow Keynesian economic policies, countercyclical cut policies, policies that you use but they don't know how to use. You put on a Keynesian suit, but you don't know how to use it. You will be able to spend much more money than in normal circumstances, but you don't know how to give it a productive use and how to take advantage of that situation so that Galicia moves forward and that Galicia cuts back on positions compared to other territories in Spain and Europe. There's more funds, there's more opportunities, there's more responsibility for the government too, but we're still in a situation where there's no progress and where those 11,627 million euros are clear that they're going to allow a lot of things to be done. When I hear the People's Party boast at parliamentary headquarters that they do a lot of things as usual, for I say to them: of course, it's normal to do things when you've managed, in constant terms, more than two hundred billion euros over this period of rule of the Union. Of course, they wouldn't take the money home! Of course they do things, of course they do roads and hospitals, of course they do! But productivity and the ability to yield at all that level of spending potential is a continuous suspension by an autonomic government that can't relaunch the reality of the country and improve the situation. Today we see it also in these budgets. They're expanding policies that had to deal with fundamental issues in equality, in redistribution, in investment, but they don't know. We lack industrial policy in Galicia. In these budgets there is no solid planning to be able to push and correct the eaves of the industrial model of Galicia. In these budgets there is no R & D+i policy that can push our productive model towards a new science and innovation scenario to be in the vanguard. In these budgets there is no differential strengthening of public services and well-being, and there are even splits that are cut out that are fundamentally shocking. And that's why the budgets are suspended. Do you think that with these budgets the Greeks and the Greeks will know whether we are going to deal with the economic modernization of the country in a far-reaching and vanguard manner? Is there a model to deal with the double digital transition and ecological transition that is necessary in the times we live? What is the innovative model of R+D+i behind these budgets? What is the rural policy beyond belief, as you believe, that with the Demographic impulse Act, problems of the Greeks and the Greeks are solved to recover the population and growth rates? What is the model that exists behind this budgeting to generate jobs? Do you think that the Greeks and the Greeks can be more calm with these budgets today knowing that you use those more than 11 billion euros to boost employment, especially for long-term unemployed, for women and for youth? There's no answer to fundamental questions, no progress, no model. There's a farm policy without economic policy and no economic policy designed for people. That's a mistake, a serious mistake that makes these budgets not allow us to believe in them. [[Applause]] It's just that you have a majority that allows you to raise these kinds of issues, but that majority of popular party symmetry is not the best channel. We respect the Government of the People's Party, we want you to succeed, but just as we saw a year ago in the budgets of the Union, we are in an inertia policy in which you take the accounting document from previous years, increase the accounts that come from extraordinary funds and do not change how you make the budgets or have an economic policy to make better budgets for the Greeks and for the Greeks. They refuse in the absolute majority - most legitimate of the People's Party - and prefer to dialogue with married people in agreements with other autonomous communities, but not in agreements with the Greeks and the Greeks or in agreements with this Parliamentary House. So, we think you're losing a historic opportunity with extraordinary funds to relaunch Galicia, and it's just that, when time passes, the Greeks and the Greeks will know that, after having the greatest possibility of public spending in the face of an economic crisis as the Government of the People's Party of Galicia has, they're losing it, they're wasting it, and they're not giving it the yields and needs that there was. And of course there are things that shock us. They put down primary care schemes, which are saturated, which lower public health, teacher training, protection and labour integration, family and child benefits, which reduce disability benefits by 14%, which give less support to conciliation, trade, youth... in so many areas. But besides, I want to make a reference today too to tax policy, because the People's Party likes to talk a lot about employment and tax policy, and you in both areas are a disaster. I'm a disaster for the common Greeks, from day to day. And I'm sleepy because, when we talk about jobs, the People's Party in Galicia has the best show, because after twelve years of People's Party government, the evolution of employment in Galicia is fundamentally negative. And you don't satisfy me by studying unemployment rates, because behind the data you need to know about the data and interpret it. Any economic student knows perfectly well that if you're reducing the active population with an activity rate of the lowest in the autonomous community, of course we keep a vision that the unemployment rate is reduced because there are no people, because people are leaving. And that's the success of the People's Party. You study the busy population data, study the recruitment data and see what the level of part-time and full-time recruitment is. You study the number of hours actually employed in Galicia over a year and you will be seeing the enormous historical reduction in employment in Galicia. Because even in the number of posts we're giving a real vision. They tell the Greeks and the Greeks about reality because, behind the mantra that everything is going well, we all know what reality is in the day-to-day world, the members of the People's Party, who are citizens like us, of course, who know the reality and the problems of employment in their families, in their municipalities, around them, and who know that when they're telling them that unemployment rates are going very well, they're telling them a mile to the Greeks and the Greeks that nobody has just believed, and they can't be. [[Applause]] Just as there is a failure in the generation of jobs in Galicia, there is a huge failure, for those of us who are progressive, in tax policy. Because you are still heirs of the neoliberal tradition that you don't believe in the public. And when they increase the investment expenses of the board by 507 million by the mechanism of recovery and resilience, they voted against the PP, Casado and his deputies at Congress. Today they wouldn't be in the budgets if the People's Party won that vote. But besides, where you have the skills to raise funds, you do a policy that takes action that is regressive. I know who has the most paid, but these budgets are the best show that the People's Party has shown its most retrograde, most backward face, its face of alliance with Galician millionaires, with the incomes of those who have more than 100,000 euros in wages every year. That's the face of the People's Party, because the People's Party doesn't admit the amendments, the proposals we made since the opposition. For example, we have tabled 491 proposals for changes in expenditure and they have not admitted any, but the People's Party has modified the planning of the Government of the Union. Because you, when you heard that the Government of the United Nations promoted a little increase in the taxation of people who in Galicia charge more than 100,000 euros a year, you, the PP, told your Government of the United Nations that no, that you don't want to charge the millionaires, that they want to lower their property tax and that they don't want to give them any kind of tax commitment to higher incomes, and that's a sample of what the People's Party is. [[Applause]] In order to finance health care, in order to finance public education, in order to finance social policies, income is necessary. And the only thing I hear about the representatives of the PP, from the president of the board to all his voices, is to make a fuss about how important it is to lower taxes. Of course it's important to lower taxes, but it's more important to pay for the public health of the Greeks and the Greeks, who want to have a decent life and who are on the waiting lists in primary care and hospital care. Of course, such issues need to be reinforced. You still believe, Mr. Puy, that the Laffer curve remains the key to getting more. It's something nobody believes in any university in the world, but still the People's Party, yes. What do you mean? That we lower the taxes because we will be able to boost the activity and we will end up raising more. You don't see it anywhere, you haven't even put it into practice in many places, but now you're wearing the Keynesian suit, which is what's left of them. What you are doing is a policy that, if you did not have the guarantee of the Government of Spain to make expansional policies, would be a policy equal to that of the cuts that applied in the previous economic crisis, just like because you voted against the 500 million euros that come from the recovery and resilience mechanism or just because they only talk about lowering taxes; by the way, the richest, the most favored. That's the fallacy of the People's Party. That's the fallacy of the People's Party that has a sample in these budgets. Now you're down 12 euros a year on the IRPF to 800,000 Greeks who have an average salary, but you're down 500 to 38,000 Greeks who charge more than 100,000 euros a year. To the Greeks of the city, 800,000 Greeks, they are down 12 euros; and to 38,000 gales, who charge more than 100,000 euros a year, they are down 500 euros. That's the fiscal policy of the PP, which lowers taxes on the rich and makes a certain propaganda saying it lowers them all. And then we have to see what it affects, because it affects public health, public education and social policies. And for that, they can't count on us, because we're on the left, we're in progressive approaches, different from those of the PP, in employment, in fiscal policy, in politics... completely. They've already managed the previous crisis, and so we did. It doesn't contain us for that. That's why we have to talk about the problems of the Greeks. [[Applause]] Look, it's just that you, behind all those numbers that they give, don't mean reality when we talk about public health. Last year there are 500 health professionals who are less working in the public health system in Galicia because they have terminated the contract to health care professionals who have given their best of their lives in the toughest moments of the pandemic, and you have cut them off there; because today in Galicia there are 900 hospital beds less than when you arrived at the Government of the Union of Galicia; because still the pace of recovery of the presence primary care that you announced is not met, you continue to dominate telemedicine and telephone care with waiting lists as we have never seen in primary care and public health; because, in all that planning, you have things that you don't want to recognize, and I'll give them some headlines, because they're in the press: "First notice: if this continues, there will be health centers that will end by closing." "Waits up to nine months for early hospital care child therapy." [[Mr. Caballero Miguez reads press headlines.]] Today, in the Guard, a demonstration, not going any further. Complaints about the lack of a medical holder at the Coristanco Health Center. "Call a protest in Ferreira to demand the three doctors for the health centre." "Warn that the Panton health centers will run for two days, with a single consultation." It's Galician reality. What country do they live in? Don't you know what's going on in public health? Don't you know there's a level of backward fruit from your cuts that's dementive? And what do these budgets solve? Nothing, because when we tell you, through our proposals, that you have to invest more in primary care, that you have to make more investment in staff, increasing the number of professionals both in primary care and in hospital care, when you make proposals to promote healthy habits or to have a more powerful mental health plan, you don't want to listen to it, you don't want to incorporate it. But if this happens in health care, we can also talk about what happens in education in our country. An education in which you terminated the contract to 868 reinforcement teachers, who were hired at the worst moments of the pandemic and you decided they weren't necessary because they preferred to increase the number of students per class. And now, at this point, we've found ourselves with a more complex scenario: they don't cover the teacher's leave. There's over 200 teachers who don't cover the board government. There are over 200 classrooms that are now closed, and there are over 2,000 contagions linked to educational centers. And you'd rather bet on reducing last year's number of reinforcement teachers and increasing the number of students per class. And this puts families, the whole country, on a level of uncertainty that is fundamentally worrying. But in that area, we have to bet on more professors, on the fact that they're covered by teacher fees, on the improvement of dining rooms, because we can, in addition, strengthen the financial positions of families, allowing textbooks to be free again. And for that, we make proposals and amendments and you vote that you don't. But if we talk about social policies, we also have to see how these budgets do not respond to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm going to give you some headlines: "Today in the community there are 46,000 homes with all their members without activity." Public spending in Galicia in the care of dependent people is 18% below the average of the state. "There's a very important number of Greeks, about 450, who stop living each year on the dependency waiting lists." [[Mr. Caballero Miguez reads press headlines.]] And according to the report of directors and managers of social services this year, Galicia is in line with social spending per capita. Do these budgets give a single answer to these problems in the country? Are they going to improve this situation? Because, you see, this data was the same one year ago, and we're still the same one year later, because there's a lot of budgets, but there's a few policies of change. [[Applause]] That's why we're asking different questions because we believe it's important to increase the staff of inspection in residences, that we need to expand the assessment team in disability, that we need to improve the network of early attention and that we have to bet on a plan to fight poverty. And, of course, we also want to tell you that you're right when you set free for children's schools. That, which is a proposal that I have brought to this House on many occasions, is something that they carry in these budgets, and it's a correct one, but I want to ask them, because they have funds to do so, that they don't make families have to be paying the children's schools until the next academic course, but since January 2022 they make free the children's schools for all children and children in our country, because they can be done, because there are extraordinary funds to do so and because it's a decision that you can make and that will help many families who are suffering from the economic crisis to be able to have more guarantees. We are proposing proposals in many areas, for example, in youth, where you lower spending, where you can take forward a rental aid plan, a youth employment plan and where you can establish the first free enrolments in the university system; also in issues of equality, where there are so many challenges to cover that remain pending, such as taking women's information centres to all communities and giving them sufficient capacity and personal capacity; you can also increase equal funds, because you spend what you have a finalist application but stop doing so in other areas, because you have to bet on housing solutions for victims of machist violence and why you have to bet on prevention programs; also measures in culture, sports, in democratic memory, where you don't wish to regain the memory of the democratic dignity of so many families, of so many Galicians who have fought against a dictatorship and so many of them that they have even left their life. [[Applause]] But if we talk about these issues, there are also very important issues that have to do with economic and industrial problems. I have just taken stock of his ejacism in the Union and of the policies of well-being, but we must also talk about industrial policies, infrastructure policies, double transition and European projects. I shall do so, ladies and gentlemen, in my next speech. But I want to point out to you something that is important, because when we talk about the modernization of the country, there is a possibility with European projects and European funds. We already know that the Board of Auditors has taken you from your ears - yes, Counsellor, yes; it has taken you on several occasions - because you do not execute 40% of the European funds coming to Galicia, 4 out of every 10 euros - and the Board of Auditors says so, I do not say -. They look at the data and look at reality, 40% of the European funds arriving in Galicia with this Union are not being implemented, and therefore we have to see that, in addition to taking advantage of these 500 million euros that come through the recovery and resilience mechanism, we need to have a model to boost economic modernization. And every time we spend a month, we're seeing how the Union continues to be out of touch in the field of modernisation and European projects. Many projects have been taken out, even you have done a commission. What work are they doing now? What is the approach they're making? None, because they don't have the will, show that you create a chiringuit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u44	Go finish, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u45	...that you mark a certain pattern of ads, that one day they say 6, another day 300, another day 8 and that they lack a vision of how to build the country. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that these budgets are a missed opportunity for Galicia, that they are budgets without dialogue, that they are budgets without a country project, that they are budgets without sufficient commitment to the state of well-being and public services, that they are budgets without impulse to support productive fabric and modernization, which are budgets that distrust the policies of equality, youth and democratic memory, and that they are budgets that lack industrial policy and respond to the rural environment. These are budgets that are a missed opportunity. The People's Party maintains itself in inertia, in fallen arms, in the heritage of neoliberal policies without knowing how to manage this amount of public funds more efficiently to protect the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. The budgets on the right are the budgets of the People's Party, but not the budgets that the Greeks and the Greeks need for Galicia poscovid, to modernize the economy, to strengthen well-being and to generate jobs. Today the Greeks and the Greeks know that the People's Party does not give them new hopes or new opportunities for their future. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u46	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, the floor is addressed to Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u47	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is living a moment of change, and only those who are not on this planet can ignore that there are profound transformations in the world, accelerated by the coward-19, by which our country has to resituate. The consequences of a pandemic that is still with us, the scarcity of fundamental raw materials for industry or the escalation of prices, particularly energy, are risks and uncertainties that are marking the present and that will condition 2022. And the question that we have to ask ourselves in this context, and in this particular debate, is whether these budgets respond to that changing reality and offer the best tools to confront it. From the Galician Nationalist Block, we're convinced we don't. Budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are for a government like a kind of map, they're like a very important tool for a country and for a government, and we can imagine them as a map, like a map to be oriented in the short and medium term, like a map that has to help follow certain paths and that has to help save obstacles. The truth is that the map presented by this government in this budget project has many shortcomings. It's as if there was an earthquake and then those responsible for doing the new cartography replicated absolutely what there was already, drawing the same streets, the same roads, not taking into account that the relief, that the territory, is now different because of that earthquake. And that, in short, is what happens to this project. The context has changed, but what is not changed is the responses and policies presented by the People's Party, which do not take into account that new obstacles also require new paths. It's obvious that no one has a crystal ball to know what the future will be like, but the German Government has made some budgets in which we understand from the BNG that it is part of a diagnosis that is wrong and that is based on inertia, and that's a problem. It's a problem, because there's no anticipation capacity and it's a problem because there's no reaction capacity either, and because we have an autopilot government while reality is ahead of you. And I want to emphasize an issue that we were already moving forward in the first part of the debate, and it is that since this project was introduced in this House two months ago, if it was useless yesterday, of course, in today's day, it has been even more anchored in the past. The force of reality makes it go backwards, and we can set examples. First example. We insist, the escalation of the price of light, far from being temporary or forwarding, as it was estimated in the memory itself of budgets, what it does is to consolidate, increase. We're on the second historical record, rocking the 330 euros megavatio/hour, six times as much as a year ago, drowning families and drowning the economy as well. And the forecast is that this goes on, that this week we're over 400 euros megavatio /hours, too, by the height of the price of the gas, which hits another historic record again. And what is the answer to these budgets? Well, it just doesn't exist, and it's true there's a fundamental problem. This is a problem that doesn't have everyone else, that's right, but, of course, not everyone has the potential energy producer that this country has, and yet there are zero measures in these budgets to turn this potential into a vector of competitiveness. And even more, what's in these budgets is that you keep putting a red carpet on a predatory wind model. And we know why, we know why the People's Party does this: because the embraces of the People's Party then the electricians pay them with rotating doors. Last week we saw how Iberdrola added Mrs. García Tejerina to the payroll of expolitics, along with gentlemen like Acebes or Fatima Bañez, who I imagine will sound who they are by this bench. This explains a lot of the measures that are not going or going on in these budgets. [[Applause]] The second example I wanted to set is that this price escalation is not exclusive to the energy sector. The price rise continues to rise in other areas, and this not only slows its growth, but directly drowns many families, many social groups, the most vulnerable people. Last week we knew the IPC data from November, and it follows that path of rise; in addition to November, it went up more in Galicia than in the state, two tenths, and over a year ago that translates into an increase of 5.9%, four tenths more in a year than evolution in the Spanish state. That, no doubt, has an impact; it has an impact than any small company in this country or any Galician is aware, and it costs you more in your pocket to fill the tank of the car to go to work, pay the bill of light or pay the housing. But we want to put today's accent precisely on the weakest links in the chain. Let us think, for example, of the more than 250,000 people - which is more than twice the city of Ourense - who, according to the German Network against Poverty, were already in severe poverty by 2020. They're people who find it impossible to make a decent shopping basket or face the housing payment because they have to survive with less than 540 euros a month. This is an example of the fundamental social inequality that exists in this country and that these budgets refuse to meet. Thirdly, the third example I wanted to put is that the same thing happens, the circumstances around us are underestimated in such important areas as industry. In areas as important to the economy as industry, we already had a long list of companies on the edge of the cliff: companies as important as Vestas, such as Alcoa or Barreras, that these budgets ignore. There is no alternative to these situations, and above all they also suffer the uncertainty generated by the material crisis and also by the bottlenecks that affect logistics, especially automotive and manufacturing industry. All of this, these three examples - and we could add more, we could talk about the evolution of the pandemic, which also reduces growth forecasts and recovery - present difficulties that these budgets do not address sufficiently. In fact, the Banco de España itself lowered the growth forecast for the Spanish State from 6.3% to 4.5%. We trust Galicia, we trust the strength of this country, but of course it is clear that in an economic context like where we move these circumstances will affect us too, and of course we will not remain isolated from these tensions. Therefore, these budgets are already, in their processing, absolutely out of date. And they're not only out of step, but, as it became clear during the successive debates we've had, they're not exceptional neither in the amounts nor in their political decisions on expenditure. And I'll think about it. First of all, about the amount, despite the triumphalist readings that here are in common also to two parliamentary groups, of course, beyond the government's makeup operation, the reality is that, compared to last year's budget, the increase is 64 million euros, it doesn't increase even 1%; therefore, we have rather a budgetary freeze. Secondly, the weight of the Union's budget on gross domestic product is still falling, and let's not say if we apply the update on the CPI and compare with the year 2009. And thirdly, in these budgets we once again call attention to two elements. One is that they still depend on more than 10% of extraordinary funds. The problem with extraordinary funds is that they're not taking sufficient advantage of themselves and that they're temporary; that is, for next year we won't be able to count on them. That means that, in fact, we're in the face of some austere budgets, because, in addition to this figure, this 10%, is also dedicated to amortizing debt, and the debt problem is that it has not ceased to increase since you rule; it has not been used to shield and strengthen public services. We have that accumulated debt, and it already assumes three times what the Employment and Equality Council is, for example. So in addition to clearly reflecting that these amounts are not exceptional, that these budgets are not exceptional, we would also like to add some reflections on three handicaps, three backpacks that accumulate this government and that also spoil our future opportunities. First of all, we cannot ignore that, before this non-financial crisis, there was a financial crisis in 2009 and there were political decisions that spoil our present and also spoil our future, and we have very clear examples, for example, in the health field, in the area of deteriorating public services, such as primary care. It is that primary attention accumulates a cut of more than 2,400 million euros that explains much of today's situation. Secondly, it is clear that around the corner we have again Damocles' sword from the deficit frame. It is clear that in the next budgetary exercise we will have to apply it. The Union also openly talks about ending this phase of flexibility, and that will make us less resourceful to be able to assume hot needs such as health, while the Spanish State also accumulates more spending capacity to the detriment of communities or countries like Galicia that we can develop our competences. Thirdly, we must add to this the situation of the European funds. I want to insist once again in this House that it is not all that is clocking gold. First, because we have not guaranteed as a country to receive the part that belongs to us. The population IGE data, the latest ones, has just been released, and we're back down on the relative weight of population in the Spanish state, and yet we haven't guaranteed that we're going to receive at least that figure. Secondly, because there is no transparency of the Galician Union's priorities and there is no transparency on the part of the Government of Sánchez, no longer entering the conditionality of European funds, how this will affect our social system and how we are seeing social rights being placed directly in the precipice. And thirdly, we have to talk about that, in addition to the delays on arrival, there is also the capacity for execution, which is currently minimal. It's a state problem, but it's a problem also the execution of Galicia, taking into account the precedents as well, and I refer to the reports of the Board of Auditors and also to the communications of the European Commission. Therefore, these examples are used to show that reality has advanced the Greek Government; a government that goes to slow down, that goes, Mr. Corgos, for the old hour. And in front of that, the Government had two options: going ahead, stepping on the accelerator in its unilateral roadmap, or sitting down practicing something new, which would be the dialogue, which would be the confrontation of ideas, and, of course, once again, you apply that having absolute majority automatically translates into being possessors of all powerful truth and the ability not to be mistaken. But that, unfortunately for this country, is not so. So it's a bad news that you're going through the knee once again and that of the more than a thousand amendments that you've tabled to the opposition to the state of expenditure, once again, you're not going to accept any, not one! And that's not a demerit of the opposition, which we suspect we don't know how to make our amendments, which we are very wrong -- reading, regulating, and adding and remaining, already fatal -- but what reflects is the sovereignty of the German Government, which is shut down in its ivory tower. Because if there was room for you to at least recognize some mistake or some positive idea of opposition groups, there could be a transaction, but of course, you don't want dialogue and you don't want to listen to others. That's the sad reality of this budgetary procedure. You have made, Mr. Corgos, a great toast to the sun in the previous full with respect to the possibilities of consensus, but at the end of 431 partial amendments, as it was predictable, were rejected all, and the Socialist Party ran the same fate. So, of course, we anticipate that our vote, if there is no change, will be once again negative. In any case, I wanted to do some more reflection. These are the second budgets of a legislation marked, of course, by the pandemic, and for us there are three lessons that are not contemplated at all, that do not settle. The first is the need to strengthen public services. Health, social policy and education are key parts, especially at a time of crisis, at a time of increasing social inequality, in order to ensure that this country is coherent and fair. Secondly, there is no need to have a new economic model, based on innovation, which enables us to generate wealth and the future. And thirdly, we don't even address the need to start this new era by doing something different, thinking Galicia in large, responding to the climate crisis and also marking us as a goal to advance social rights to have more quality of life. These objectives basically focus on the more than four hundred amendments that we have tabled since the BNG. And I would first of all like to talk about the scope of public services, which is where the seams most showed this crisis. And look, I'll give you examples, Mr. Corgos. Last week, the educational community was protesting because you, by raising wages at Christmas, decided to stop covering school fees. This Sunday, for example, in the streets of Compostela, while we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Greek Parliament, there were the workers of the home support service, who continue to demand - time after the beginning of the pandemic - the dignity of their working conditions. Or today, without going further, professionals from the Primary Care of Low Mine, Rosal, Oia, Guard, are on strike. They're on strike because they're absolutely exhausted from working in low-minimum Leonine conditions. And the example of Low Mine is today in that part of the territory, but it's many other days in other parts of our territory. Also a few weeks ago, the Orenian population protested by the dismantling of health in Valdeorras, at the Valdeorras Public Hospital, which you, despite the constant propaganda made by Mr. Health Counsellor, what they are doing is diminishing their services. That's the reality that's outside the ivory tower of the German Government. [[Applause]] The reality is that there is no public service in this country that has no problems at this time and complaints from both users and professionals. And, therefore, we present amendments with a very clear objective, which is to strengthen these public services. For example, in the area of the social policy of residences it is unprecedented that, despite the pandemic, the budgets of the People's Party, rather than guaranteeing care as a social right, deepen in a model that seeks to drain public resources directly from the public system to the private system through a system that is absolutely speculative and in which old age is a business. I want to insist again that Galicia has the lowest public square percentage in the whole state, despite the high aging of our population, and that the draining of public resources is absolutely obscene. In private squares, for example, you increase in more than 10 million euros, but you don't have that same diligence to shield services like the German Consortium. So, in our amendments, what we do is turn it around and denounce the shortcomings of this situation, because it can't be that 8 out of every 10 squares are private in the case of residences and 6 out of every 10 in the day centers. That is why we propose a plan to expand the public service network in the social field. They'll roll over too on this part of the debate and try to cover it up. Of course, they were able to prevent this Parliament from investigating the situation of residences during the pandemic, and they can prevent the Members and Members of the BNG from normally accessing the inspection records in these areas, and they may not send these records to the Prosecutor's Office, although they deserve it, but of course, what they will not be able to prevent — even if these amendments do not prosper — is that this very important issue for this country continues in the debate. So I insist that, as we announced yesterday, this group will present a bill for a new model of residences under the premise of guaranteeing a dignified old age. [[Applause]] And, of course, the other fundamental area is that of health. It is an absolute irresponsibility that we continue in a pandemic and that the pandemic continues without going through the budgets and policies of the Union, which neither reinforces the weakest areas nor caters to exhausted personnel, nor is it marked as an objective to correct the delay in diagnostic tests and also the delay in treatment; something that will have an absolutely brutal impact on our society, on the public health system and, above all, on the most vulnerable collectives. I would therefore like to point out three priority areas for our amendments: the first — as could not be otherwise — is that of primary care. Not that there is no longer a strategy to modernize and armor these services, but that they go in the opposite direction, and even dare to cut the budget this year 2022. Of course — we insist — you can't do any less. So we propose in our amendments improvements to this area and a new model of primary care with increased personnel and with the creation of multidisciplinary teams that incorporate clinical psychology, speech, physiology or occupational therapy. Finally, to strengthen the cornerstone of our health system and to accompany this with the provision of more health centers and also to shield the comarcas hospitals. Secondly, also a contingency plan to ensure that attention and remove waiting lists. I want to remember that today, December 21st, exactly 18 months ago we left our home confinements. It is true that this did not mean the end of the stress of the health system. That's so, but, of course, what we can't do is, 18 months later, normally give the absolute paralysis that exists in certain services and delays that are having a cost in terms of life and quality of life. Thirdly, I want to mention mental health. Of course, Verónica Forqué's recent suicide has raised this issue in the media today; it has focused on mental health; something we have been reporting for many years and, most especially, in this legislation to the pandemic thread from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and that you refuse to address seriously continuously. I'm not going to give any more information, I'm just recommending that you read, Mr. Corgos, the demolient interview that was made to José Ramón Silveira, president of the Galician Psychiatry Association, and that it was summed up in his headline: "In mental health care in Galicia I only see deficits." Mr. Corgos, we have a waiting list in the Psychiatry services that are the highest in Sergas. They're insurmountable. We therefore propose to increase the expenditure for a true mental health care plan. And finally, but no less important, in the field of public services, I wanted to make a brief reference to teaching. Of course, it is clear that in times of crisis teaching is the most powerful tool we have to equal society. Of course, these budgets are going to stop the investment, and that's because there's a roadmap orchestrated by this parliamentary group and by the German Government to teach this country, public education, which is getting smaller and smaller. So Feijóo closed 1 out of every 10 public centers, more than 180, and suppressed -- we insisted -- 2,500 teachers in the public system. You deny, if you are able, the Council of Auditors' data. In contrast, we propose an agreement for the German education, EUR 150 million to strengthen public education and the provision of teachers and the resources they need; a Greek pact for educational integration, since our country is among those who have the highest dropout rates in the European Union, and this is certainly not solved by cutting off the school drop-out prevention programme; and finally, we also insist that you recover the freeness of textbooks. The second lesson, in any case, which shows us the pandemic and in which we wanted to insist, is that a change of economic model is necessary; there is a need for a new economic model that is based on innovation and enables us to generate wealth and the future. And in this sense, we have tabled amendments with three objectives since the BNG: firstly, to shorten the industrial crisis; secondly, to modernise the productive sectors; and thirdly, to multiply the effort in innovation. We need to shorten the industrial crisis because you can't do anything like that, keep selling in your eyes, looking for culprits, and just not developing measures, like a rescue plan for strategic companies in crisis, like a plan to promote technological and industrial activity, which aims to achieve 25% industrial GDP in 2030, or proposals in the energy field, from the creation of a public energy company to the impulse of a new wind model that allows us to generate jobs. Also, in the field of employment, you have to address your shortcomings in the most punished sectors of the crisis, such as youth or women, who do not appear in these budgets. And for that we propose a Galician employment strategy 2025 and also specific measures for the collective of self-government and self-government, which, no doubt, are among the most punished. And finally, we understand that there is also a need to modernise the productive sectors. Our rural environment and our sea are privileged in this historical context where we have to reshape our economy, and what we have to do is correct the drift of the German Government, which is of absolute abandonment, of the assumption of policies that are harmful from the scope of the state and of the European Union, and give it a spin. I will set an example for the sea sector. It is that over the last ten years, Counsellor, the Welsh fishing sector has lost more than 500 vessels, and membership of Social Security has fallen around 20% in sectors such as the fisheries and aquaculture regime. In view of that, you present continuity and, as in the previous debate, a council that is neither directly nor expected nor executed its budgets. In front of that, we propose a battery of amendments to revitalize the sector and shorten its emergencies. And finally, in the economic field, we insist that it has to be a key issue to increase the investment effort in innovation. The data is there, you know them perfectly, and they're unsustainable. There's a skilful investment that sets the Government of Greece in times of crisis; it's precisely when you had to take advantage of that debt, for example, to support the innovative system of this country. Today there is less than 1% of gross domestic product than in 2009 and there is no research consolidation policy. The Welsh researcher career is directly like the Kings -- for we're at Christmas -- it's the parents, it doesn't exist in this country. And, above all, we have to listen to statements in the press yesterday at Junta saying that it encourages the research groups not to get frustrated because it's a frustration that they can't keep them all. Look, of course what a frustration is to have this short-sighted government that doesn't assume that in a globalized context science and innovation are key. [[Applause]] So we will insist that we reorient the innovative Greek system. We put forward proposals such as Innogal, the Welsh researcher's career... and, we insist, you come to the consensus around a Greek science pact involving at least 3% of the budget. Of course, it is key to doing what we do in this amendment and in this phase of partial, which is thinking about Galicia as big and responding to the moment we live. Precisely we insist on these amendments that, in view of the context we live in, in the face of this new era, we must respond to the climate crisis and we must also move forward in a more rights and quality of life in Galicia, because precisely what we are seeing is that we are at risk of losing rights and losing quality of life, and we do not want that for this country. And speaking of the need to respond to the climate crisis, it is clear that the world is not trying to warn us. The pandemic is a warning; there are others too. In this country we've already lived great forest fires, we've lived floods, we've lived periods of drought... the planet is warning us and we have to react. That's why we propose to learn from these warnings, to bet on the preservation of territory and biodiversity, a new management of the water and waste cycle, to address the climate emergency, sustainable mobility... these areas have to be a political priority and also budgetary, but in these budgets there is neither reorientation nor resources. That's why we present amendments such as the approach of the water cycle through the Welsh 2030 Strategy, the Ryas project or the Galicia project of the thousand rivers. We also include an amendment to start what we call the urban plan of Galicia. We need to provide guidelines, support and guidance for a new urban model for the cities and cities of Greece based on social cohesion, economic dynamism, adequate waste management, the circular economy, etc. And, therefore, this response to the climate crisis has to go incardinating new goals aimed at thinking our country in large and forward-looking terms. And in that sense, at this very moment when it comes to thinking about the future, we don't just want to talk about preserving the rights we already have, but we also have to aspire as a country to gain more, to have more quality of life and more social rights. And that's why we insist on areas such as culture, housing or equality, which we understand must be fundamental at this new stage. Of course, we saw in this crisis how culture was twice punished in this country. He had accumulated punishment for policies that had been implemented since 2009, but a new punishment was applied with restrictive measures in his activity. So it's added that the obsession of Jacob that this government has prevents dissociating cultural productions that have nothing to do with this area. In this sense, we propose a true plan for reactivating and boosting the cultural sectors. And we also insist on our amendments that the Galician future and the Galician we dream about in the future can't be imagined without the language. And, of course, this government in its budgets goes on that line of absolute abandonment of linguistic consensus and absolute negationism. We therefore present incardinated amendments in line with the recommendations of the Royal Galician Academy or UNESCO so that the policies of the Galician Union address the language substitution problem in this country. Another area — if we talk about the future, if we talk about quality of life; we cannot cover them all in this turn — of course, it is housing, which has to be central. It has to be something that, in addition, takes the German Government seriously, radically correcting a housing policy in which it no longer cuts budget, but does not execute it. Of course, there must be two priorities: one, to bet on the increase in the public housing park in rent; and another, to address emergencies, to have a real housing security plan for people in a situation of economic precariousness or social vulnerability, which are our main emergencies. And last of all, we cannot think of Galicia in the future without speaking of feminism and equality, without saying that it is necessary to bet on new directions of this government, to correct this cut in the field of co-responsibility that they apply and also to increase resources against violence. In that sense, we also amend - after you for one more year have given up investing 1 in every 100 euros against masculine violence, because it seems to them to be too much of an economic resource to protect our lives - and we continue to insist that there are guidelines to correct this budget and that this area has to be absolutely priority. We therefore present over 400 amendments aimed primarily at these three areas: the first — I would remind you — to strengthen the public system, to strengthen public services, especially social policy, health and education; the second, to reorient the economic model to base it on innovation and thus generate wealth and employment; and the third, also to bet on incardinating government actions in a future strategy that addresses the climate crisis situation, but also to seek to create a new, more coherent, stronger and with new rights. So these are the issues we wanted to put on the table. We understand that there will be no news in this debate, but hope is the last that is lost. And I'm done with a last thought. Last week Bell Hooks passed away, a fundamental reference in the feminist and anti-racist struggle. She said what we do is more important than what we say or what we say we believe. And, of course, in these budgets of the People's Party, it became quite clear that one thing is what they say, what they say in their exhibition, their Powerpoints, even in their explanatory statement, and another very different thing is what these budgets do. We also have the experience of the execution and budget management of more than twelve years and, of course, we do not buy that frame of absolute dissonance between what they say and what they hide. Of course, we will maintain our opposition to these budgets if there is no correction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u49	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Perhaps this budgetary debate rarely took place in such a complex scenario, in the midst of a pandemic crisis with health consequences first but also so profound economic and social. This debate has rarely taken place on such a scene that it is subject to change. We are all pending the variants of the covid, even pending psychosocial factors, passing at times when we seem to overcome the crisis of euphoria to depression, when a new variant appears, pending the effectiveness of vaccines and possible medicines. We've rarely been in such an asymmetric scenario, because there are sectors that are being hit hard and others are even developing well. There are a number of risks that cause inequality, even in the effects of the pandemic, which affects tourism and the presence of work and, on the other hand, protects those who can do telework or other kinds of tasks not in contact with the population. Finally, I think we are at a time that demands a lot of responsibility, because we are playing lives if we don't give a proper answer to the health question, but we are also playing the lives of the future, because, in fact, the country has already begun major reforms to adapt to the demands of a world that demands digitalization, that demands competitiveness, that demands greater respect and conservation of the environment and that also demands greater equality of both gender and fundamentally among people who have very asymmetric and very unequal incomes. And it is about doing the need for virtue and taking advantage of the efforts we are making and, above all, the European Union to overcome the pandemic and the crisis it has caused, not only to overcome it, but also to move forward in these reforms. I think something said to the spokesman who preceded me in the speech. The difficulty of the situation can be expressed perfectly by remembering a couple of data. When we started the budgetary debate, in September, the forecast of GDP growth for Spain for this year, for the year in which we are in, they still kept 6.8. The government was waiting for 6.5. He said it was the economy that would grow more than the whole European Union. Soon Airef dropped the expectation to 5.5. Today the consensus of both the OECD and the European Commission itself is that Spanish recovery is the slowest in the whole of the European Union. The OECD estimates that the European Union will grow by 5.2 and Spain will give one....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u50	Excuse me a second. You can reach the microphone more, why...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u51	I'm trying not to touch the microphones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u52	But give it to him, give it to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u53	...because you think it's best not to touch them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u54	No, but in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u55	Anyway, I'm doing what I'm told.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u56	Then clean us up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u57	In any case, the Banco de España is already giving 4.5, when in September it was 6.3 growth. There's a slowdown in growth, which has many causes. First of all, we have an annual consumption price index in November of 5.5, we have accumulated in the year of 5.3, but no energy or fresh food is at 1.4 in October. And, of course, this inflation has a lot to do with production problems, supply factors, production imbalances, paralysis during confinement, interruption of international freight flows, the difficulty of reactivating them with greater demand, which is the second factor that influences, but especially as a result of energy costs. And we must bear in mind that two-thirds of the price rise has to do with energy, which mainly affects electro-intensive companies, steel plants, chemicals, paperboards, cement, glass... and also the agricultural sector, for the cost of fuels, fertilizers, refrigerators... and all these energy overloads certainly stop recovery. There's less activity and some companies even go back into losses as a result of this change in energy prices. The annual change in industrial prices, which in Spain was 20% over the previous year, this year and in the European Union was only 13.2%; if we drew energy, in Spain it would be 1.2 and in the European Union of 2.2. That's exactly how important an energy policy is. We're in December with a light receipt, which is 94% more expensive than it was last December, and we see the importance of a responsible transition. There have been changes in energy policy, of course there have been changes. With the same energy market, energy rose in other moments of rising energy prices by 8%. It was when you went out to the street asking the government to be... the same as Mrs. Presas today taking pictures of members of board of directors of one party or another. Today it's 94%. The rules are the same. What's changed? Well, the energy transition has been wrong, and we have the best example in the Bridges next door. We're reopening a power plant that's going to adapt to continue producing electrical energy that's shut down by accelerating an energy transition in an unfair way. Certainly, it could be worse. If one day the electricity tariff is approved, we'll all see that the cost of maintenance and conservation networks in a country like Galicia exceeds much of what we've drawn from participating in the whole of the Iberian market, where Portugal is also, but at last. This suffers families at the price of light, but also because it incorporates itself at the prices of products that consume in general and generate inflation. Fortunately, we still have the support of the European Central Bank, which believes that we are facing transitional inflation. Well, in this context, the latest official data show that the Welsh economy grew by 3.2 in the third quarter, that is, half a point more than the Spanish economy. Something we're going to be doing isn't so bad: 3.2 versus 2.7. There's some explanation. For example, Mr. Caballero, the consumption of public administrations grew by 4.6 in Galicia; on the national average was 2.9. We're neoliberals according to Mr. Knight. Also home spending, among other things thanks to tax cuts, could increase by 1.5.4 tenths more than in Spain's whole. And precisely this data makes us think that to continue working on recovery, reactivation of consumption it is appropriate to approve these budgets and at the same time maintain the spending and consumption capacity of public administrations. There's a second reason for slowing down growth. The European funds in Spain are being applied slowly, very slowly. You once accused Together of having no strategy of digitization, of the environment, etc., etc. Our strategy is the same as the whole of Europe and the same as the Government of Spain, because we share the criteria precisely that are in the next generation funds of the European Union. What's going on? What's happening is that we're still waiting for the Spanish Government to mobilize those aids. The other day Raymond Torres published an article in which he said that the official Government of Spain portal in 2021 closed calls for aid with European funds amounting to EUR 850 million and the ongoing calls when closing would amount to EUR 5.700 million. What's in the budgets is 27 billion euros. There's slow processing, tedious administrative processing. This contrasts with what's happening in Italy. In Italy what is done is ex post justification, it establishes an independent system of defining these funds, rather than centralizing it in Moncloa, with Vox's support. That's what you say we don't vote: the centralization in Moncloa, with Vox's support; that's what you said. Well, in the end, you'll know what they're doing. But the truth is that they are running badly and that this slows growth; it's what everyone, the Bank of Spain and the European Union themselves are saying. We know very well in Galicia that it is difficult to manage funds as they define them in Moncloa. You see that in Galicia, the first and second rescue plan with funds from the Union, for 180 million euros, had 80,000 applications and was exhausted in record time. In the third plan, which was for 234 million euros, under the conditions imposed by the Government of Spain, there were 5,900 applications. From 80,000 to 5,000. And, of course, there were 134 million euros left undistributed. He had to be reformed. And now we're on the fourth plan, see if we can get those 134 million to finally get to citizenship. The ones who dealt with Junta were already processed in the summer. So first, there's a running problem. There is no priority problem. We have made a broad recovery plan to take advantage of the European Union's Next Generation funds, which are very broad. We were asked for clarification, the clarification was given. We first empowered the forest sector and associated industry, 3,300 million euros and 29,000 jobs. Automotion, Auto Anchor, 1.2 billion, 1,000 jobs. The agri-food industry, with 1 billion jobs and 4,000 jobs. And personalized medicine, 500 million, 400 jobs. We have no answer, we're still pending. They're still announcing the PERTE. So there's a slowdown. It has to do with the causes of the crisis itself, it has to do with the fact that in Spain there are inflation differentials that slow down the crisis, which have to do with an erratic energy policy, and there is a slow deployment of European funds by those who manage them, which, as a result of this famous vote in which Vox became a state party, after what we heard from the Vox Socialist Party, were centralized in Moncloa. Employment. In employment the behavior is being positive. In 2021 the INE of November told us that unemployment was lower than 18.14 in Spain and 19.43 in Galicia. There are 34,725 people less unemployed. We're on pre-covid levels, even in levels of affiliation, with an increase of 2.54%, more than 25,000 new affiliates, thus exceeding the million broadly affiliates in Galicia, and also increasing recruitment, generally, by 44%, but especially the indefinite one; in November it grew by 129%. The average wages in Galicia varied by 0.1 per year; in Spain they dropped by 0.3. Who's behind? Public salaries grew by 2.6 in education, health and social services primarily, as well as in the administration as a whole. They also went up to other industries, such as extractives, but they fell into trade, transport and, essentially, in hospitality, 14%. What kept wages and the level were public salaries basically. This is the neoliberal government that Mr. Gonzalo Caballero says. Well, I think at this point is to deny the evidence and confuse and deal with the subject of occupation. The occupation has to do with retirement, and you know it. And so we're talking about the rate of people who are at work. Maybe we could increase the active population by following the advice given by some socialist minister to raise retirement age to 75, but I think this shouldn't be the way. We have a demographic problem. The demographic problem would slow down growth, because we all know that smaller populations produce less, and Galicia is achieving a consistent increase in per capita GDP, getting close to the average of Spain's population in recent years as well. This is the first time that unemployment has dropped in November 2005, that started the historical series and, however, there may be a problem. Nobody says it, but it's a lot of attention that GDP grows with unemployment falling. What's going on? Well, we'll see. Perhaps something will have to see the re-integration of the workers who are in the ERTE and that the activity, despite the incorporation of the workers, did not increase to the same extent, but hopefully this does not lead to the fact that, once the forced periods of employers have to payroll those who have benefited from ERTE, it leads to a drop in employment. We hope that he will give time to reactivate the economy and that that will not happen. Well, in short, we are in an asymmetric recovery, but the solutions are clear: do not withdraw support until growth is consolidated, identify why it is asymmetric and what it is the damaged companies and make selective support, make an expansive fiscal policy both through expenditure and through income, timeliness of the measures that are being taken, mainly in the deficit, because the structural deficit is increasing, and everyone knows that sooner or later we will have to rebuild the fiscal and public debt margins, and we count for this with the support of the monetary policy of European funds, in exchange for structural reforms, which also depend on the Government of Spain, Mr. Caballero, which are the conditions for the receipt of the European Union's next generation funds, and which Spain has to fulfil so that Europe will free some funds that will be released in accordance with Spain's commitments to make these structural reforms. Well, in this context I think the general lines of budgets are the right ones. They're expansive, they grow almost 7% with respect to last year. They're expansive on the side of income, they're expansive on the side of expenditure, because they foster social spending and investment, debt is contained, with which the future, when it has to go back to the paths of certain financial and fiscal stability, will be easier. And in addition, I believe that the adoption of budgets in the House has been effective, from the People's Group, so that all these new circumstances that I have just referred to would have been welcomed by this year's budget. Income policy. I don't know what some people will think, some Members, when they read headlines like Spain led in 2020 to the rise of tax pressure in the OECD and then the minister of Fairy said that he celebrates the rise in tax pressure because it's proof that the incomes were maintained in the crisis. Well, that's fine, that they kept their incomes in the crisis, but the truth is there are causes that explain this that are not so positive. First, because the taxes went up. In addition, taxes are paid to companies, housing owners, gas oil users, vehicles registrations; it's said to go up to those who use free buses; it's also based on plastics. Incentives to pension plans are eliminated and social contributions are mainly paid. Certainly, tax pressure rises because taxes rise. But, in addition, inflation is working, and we all know or should know that inflation has an effect on tax bases. As the tax base grows, because the prices of the products rise, the collection rises because the percentage paid over a higher price for the VAT also rises. And the same is true of the taxes that are fixed on the fuels and so many other products that are rising at prices. So it goes up the collection because progressiveity is working in cold, because inflation is working and because taxes are rising. And the truth is that Spain is subject to tax pressure when all of Europe decides to lower tax pressure; all of Europe is lowering tax pressure. It's more, it's the perfect time for us to complete a fiscal model that is associated with economic recovery after the crisis that I think is profitable. Mrs. Presas said in her first speech that we don't spread self-government in tax matters. I'd tell you that we're pushing self-government, but not to squeeze taxpayers; we're pushing self-government to let taxpayers have more funds to spend, invest, at a time when it's fundamental to recovery. [[Applause]] We don't base it on the Laffer curve; that is, we don't come with simple things. Because it is so true — and you know — that if you lower taxes, you don't have to go up the collection, as — which is more serious — one can raise taxes and not go up the collection either. And it goes, because I'll now refer to taxes where taxpayers can easily vote with their feet and leave one jurisdiction to another. We are certainly in a policy that is not neoliberal, it is the one that has all of Europe, and it is not the simple Keynesianism that we live in other crises, for example with a Plan E that then the Spanish Court of Auditors said it was 3.800 million waste, which is spending on spending. No, it must be thinner, learn from the other crises and even praise some of the things that have been criticized here and which are allowing this crisis not to be as hard as the previous one, for example the restructuring of the Spanish banking system. See that we don't hear questions here about the remodeling of the financial system and the good that's working! Well, the IRPF rate, as a whole, at the lowest bases, EUR 12,450, in 2009 was EUR 1,494. With the reform we have introduced in these budgets, we will be paying EUR 1,170. That is, a reduction of 323 euros total, in this period, that is, a savings on the basis of 2.6. Those you say we are now benefiting, which are more than 60,000 euros, were taxing, one of 60,000 euros, 12,281 euros; that is, it will now tax 8,871, i.e., 586 euros less; i.e., the reduction of the base, the savings on the basis is 0.98; it is 2.6 for those who earn the least, of 1.98 for those who walk around 20,000 euros and 0,98 for those who earn more than 60,000. Of course, everyone can think about what progress should be. Of course, if we add the Spanish fare, I mean that people who earn these figures will end up paying for the IRPF more than half of their annual income. This is debatable, we know it's debatable. What is not debatable is that this rate is not neoliberal. It's not a flat rate, there's no downside like, by the way, there's another autonomous community, which does its best to make neoliberal policies, which makes a linear downside of 0.5 at all rates. This is not a neoliberal tariff, it's a progressive tariff. You might like it to be more progressive or even more progressive, especially -- that's what you'd like -- much higher in guys. We think it's not time to raise the income tax. Now it's time for Galicia to be attractive to the workers and not disincentives work with types below the state scale, downgrading all the steps, obviously gradually lowering them, more the less they earn and less the more they earn. In this way, Galicia becomes a more attractive autonomous community for wages. As far as wealth tax is concerned, it is rare within European prosecutorial offices; it has been said many times. And one thing that attracts attention is that whenever we talk about equating taxation in Spain with Europe, we never say that the first thing we're going to have to do is eliminate the tax on wealth, because it's a rare right compared. But about the tax on wealth, with the discount that we make from 25% on the quota, I would like to remember what a good Greek businessman said from a Galician family company, who, in addition, bears the name of Galicia all over the world, and said that he didn't know any businessman who had come to live in Galicia or invest in Galicia for fiscal policy and did know many entrepreneurs who left Galicia as a result of certain taxes, evidently referring to the tax on wealth. We go back to what we said before: we can raise taxes whatever we want, we can raise the estate tax, but a person with a heritage to which you put a hard tax on the estate has very easy: you just have to change a few miles of residence to save some money, with which we not only lose the income you pay now from the estate tax, but also the income tax, and probably any investment you can make; and if you had to choose which autonomous community to do it, I would do it in another. I share with the Block when you complain, I share that we must not allow a young man who wants to work in Galicia to have no opportunities in Galicia, but this is extensible to entrepreneurs. I don't want any businessman who wants to invest in Galicia to find tax differentials that lead him to invest or settle in another community. [[Applause]] The set of tax reductions that we maintain as they lead to more than half a million Galicians, parents to children, being capitalised as a result of the drop in succession tax; 102,000 transactions of zero taxes in rural areas to boost the rural environment; or, for example, that in the usual housing, which, as you know, is for many families, for people with disabilities or for particularly difficult areas of population, where the reductions work, we take 31,000 beneficiaries of these tax reductions; which translate into a total of 500 million tax benefits that incorporate the budgets, 93% of them of a social nature. So we believe that this is a good fiscal policy, which incorporates these budgets. With regard to expenditure, in these budgets, EUR 8,660 million is spent on social policies, i.e. in health, education, social policies and employment. The 2013 budgets of the Board were 8.400 million. That is, all the budgets of the Union did not come to the expense that these budgets incorporate social expenditure, either in 2014 or in 2015. Only the social expenditure of these budgets includes the whole of the Union of these three years of the greatest crisis. With regard to 2021, health increases by 6.2, 269 million; by 7.1 in education, 179; by social policy, by 14.6, 126 million; by employment, by 10.37 million more than by 2021. In health care I also want to say that we are in the ongoing debate that expenditure is lowered in primary care. When we arrived in 2009, the staff spent 442 million; in the budgets of the year 2022, it was 541 million, 100 million more, that is, 23% more. And where is the reduction in primary care spending? In the drug catalogue, which is making it possible to save significantly the cost of drugs that consume and continue to consume free of charge the Welsh and the Welsh. We passed in the Sergas set of a staff in 2019 from 39,694 professionals to September 2021, 42,694. Greek health care, especially primary care, has the best evaluation of its history in the health barometer and, of course, the primary care bet continues. We have made the continuity contract, which now consolidates 86 squares; we have incorporated 109 more primary squares; we have developed the categories of health technician and optional primary specialist; and there is a primary infrastructure plan with 51 actions to improve primary care centers. And we are also taking organisational measures, such as those incorporated in these budgets. In this case, we incorporate a new category in the Law on Measures, the optional primary care specialist, which aims to solve the staff deficit at this health level, including the provision of guards in the CAP. What are you guys doing? To request that the Law be withdrawn from measures and voted against. And, of course, we're still asking for the creation of emergency specialties, which are the ones that drain family specialists, and the elimination of the replenishment rate. In fact, I cover these budgets with an injection of 140 million euros in education. Without funds, these budgets increase expenditure on social policies to EUR 987 million, an increase of 73% compared to budgets in 2009 and 4.3 over 2021. In this context, with an uncertain and changing situation, with an increase in the obvious expenditure, with an increase in the obvious social expenditure, it causes some frustration to see that the amendments are not the same; it is that you continue to disqualify these budgets with the same arguments, with cuts — which there is no — saying that they are neoliberal — when they are not — and making the same criticisms as since 2009, — I insist — against all evidence of expenditure and its effects, also on an equal footing, as the Foesa report, which we have already commented on so many times, has just confirmed us. In the end — I don't already enter the amendments, my colleague Tellado has already done it — you all sum up as more taxes, and you don't take into account how much what he does is, as is happening in Spain with regard to Europe, to waste recovery. We are acting in the face of the changes in the outline, and I think it is important to say that, for example, in addition to these amendments of incorporation into budgets, into income tax, in the creation of the category of the optional specialist, we also introduced into the Law measures to change, to compensate for the extraordinary changes in the prices of materials in public works contracts. The whole of Europe is also regulating this, except for Spain, and in Galicia we have made that decision. Of course, the only cut that carries these budgets, once again, is in the payment of interest on the debt. Next year, in 2022, the decline is 25%, and among other things, it's possible to reduce debt because in capital spending we have a productive investment that goes up 325 million euros, i.e. 14.6 more than last year, and they've already risen by 53% compared to the previous year, with which we're going to spend two years followed with more than 2,500 million for investments, i.e. 5,000 million in two years. And besides, with a territorial component, because per capita investment is superior in the interior provinces of Lugo and Ourense. In fact, I think it's hard to find in Spain an budget that has as much spending on investment on non-financial spending as that of Galicia. I think approving budgets in itself is good news and I think they're good budgets, expansive, social and appropriate to the uncertainty of the situation. They will boost family income, boost consumption, capitalize production units in Galicia and allow recovery at a time when inflation begins to deteriorate purchasing power. We support the sectors most affected by the crisis, with specific recovery plans, and public investments, territorialized in that plan that is rooted in the European plan, of which we are awaiting to unlock the Government of Spain, allow us to think that we are going the right way. These budgets do not compromise the new generations either. We are the autonomous community of common regime that has been less indebted throughout this long period since the financial crisis of 2009. This is the policy we want to have, to continue to grow, as we have been growing before the pandemic in the last five years, to continue to grow in GDP per capita and in well-being. And this is exactly the policy that you, year after year, contradict, vote 'no', — I insist — against any evidence of economic results and management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u58	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments of the other groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the People's Party brings some budgets to this chamber that respond to their idea, to their approach, but which also shows a project failure and a failure to bet on modernization, to bet on well-being and to generate jobs. And we also want to point out that, out of 491 proposals for amendments to the expenditure tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Party has not admitted any. You bring your budget package and, after all the speech agree, to hold your hand and dialogue, the facts reject all that cooperative will and show how they have a similar roller position that is unable to incorporate options, suggestions and improvements that come from other groups. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you withdraw the tax amendment that benefits higher incomes, wages greater than EUR 100,000 a year; if you keep the health and educational staff that was hired in the previous course; if you suspend the 6% increase in office and trust, appointment of the People's Party; if you assume proposals like these, the budgets of the Union would be better. And that's why I want to tell you that you're wrong, that you're wrong in your planning to keep a roadmap that's obvious and that you avoid listening to other approaches. It's good that Galicia has budgets, but Galicia could have good budgets. The public accounts need to be approved, and you have the necessary votes, but you could use that large amount of public funds much more efficient and much more equitable and equal. They could boost efficiency and help well-being as well. And when I hear the People's Party's defense of these budgets, it becomes clear to me that these are the budgets on the right, that these are budgets on the right, that you have to get used to spending more and that you want to make propaganda policy with expenditure, but that you have no model or commitment, and you have no vision of how to make it bigger. Look, Mr. Puy, you point out that these are an expansive budget for spending and expansive for income. And they're expansive because others put you in a position to make them expansive. You're not old enough to make budgets in Galician Union. They depend on the funds that come from Europe and from the state, so you can spend them in an inefficient way, no strategy, no country model, no priorities, and they do so without having the responsibility to enter and then spend. [[Applause]] You made a defense of these budgets that shows that if the People's Party had responsibility for tax policy, you would make a reduction budget for the public, an attack on well-being, a reduction budget for the collection, benefiting the most favored. Because before I had to clarify how unemployment rates are calculated. The difference between numerator and denominator, the difference between the fact that the active population is reduced and that this implies, when the denominator falls, that unemployment rates may even fall to a lesser extent, that an indicator in the numerator reflects a different evolution. But the same thing happens when you talk about tax pressure, Mr. Puy. It's just that you're here to point out that fiscal pressure has been fired during this crisis in Spain. And so it's true that fiscal pressure has risen from 34% to 36% in Spain in this crisis. But you're obvious that the tax pressure in France is 45%, that in Italy it is 42%, that in Germany it is 38%, and that if you have to explain why it increased tax pressure in Spain, it wasn't due to tax increase, Mr. Puy. Don't fool the citizens. It was because there was a crisis, which, because of the country's productive structure, based on tourism, made GDP much more fall, and GDP is what's in the denominator and therefore explains why it increases tax pressure. It is not based on a tax increase, but on a fall in production, which means that when the denominator falls, the ratio increases, but does not reflect the reality of what you say. And besides, Mr. Puy, be realistic too. In most OECD countries, fiscal pressure has increased, in twenty-six countries, reflecting in many of them, in addition to conservative policies, that the economic crisis undoubtedly implies an interpretation of the increase of that tax pressure. If we talk about funding, of course we are concerned. They worry about their tax policy, they worry about you making a defense here that on the part of the People's Party you don't like any kind of tax that you have or those who have high assets or those who have high incomes from physical people. And that's why you despise the property tax, and that's why you despise the increase in the proceeds for people who have wages above EUR 100,000 a year. That's a difference, that's the difference between the tax policy of the People's Party, which is the policy that embraces the great heritage, which embraces the wage incomes that exceed the 100,000 euros a year, and the policies of progress of the Socialist Party, which want the most people to pay more to defend public education, public health and social policies. That's what they keep giving them allergies and they have to defend, because others put their policies on them. [[Applause]] When you talk about European funds and say they're slow, much slower it would be if you won the vote in the Congress of Deputies. We have no alliance with Vox, Vox's partners are the People's Party. That's where PP and Vox have to rule you. We never rule or rule with the right, we want to separate them. [[Applause]] But it is true, Mr Puy, that you have had an irresponsible position with the People's Party here, legitimizing what the PP did in Congress, preventing the adoption of a mechanism for the agility of European funds that allows 507 million euros to exist today in the budgets of the Union. With your vote it wasn't possible. You act — and you know this well, Mr. Puy — in the free rider tax policy, in the policy of the police, in the policy of those who want to spend but don't want to collect, in the policy of what he says he likes the expansive policy that is done but does not take any measure to have enough income and in which he always wants to protect his allies, the highest income. And that's why I repeat again: you to the incomes of the Greeks who have an average or more complex situation reduce 12 euros a year, but to the 38,000 citizens of Greece with more than 100,000 euros a year, you reduce 500 euros a year. That's the policy we don't like. And, of course, there's a fundamental divergence in fiscal policy and economic policy on the right with fiscal policy and economic policy on the left. Because we defend a model of well-being that is positive, because, in addition to the fact that well-being is necessary for equality, to give equal rights to all Greeks and Greeks, so that no one depending on his position of birth or on the council where he lives may have less rights in public health, in public education, in the rights to dignity, in living his old age under protection. In addition, we believe in welfare policies, in social policies, because they generate a virtuous circle to generate growth and to get the country out of the crisis, because when we make social policies we are increasing the level of consumption, because low incomes have a much higher marginal propensity to consumption; because we are making it possible to circulate much more money and not simply into matters of saving or on certain pathways; because we believe that, ultimately, when we hire people for social policies, for education, for health, we are generating a virtuous circle that allows us to increase not only the public spending but the level of consumption, therefore the level of demand, and allowing Keynesian policies that the country has greater growth and that draining of funds ends up reaching the country's set. And you don't like it. You have a different economic policy, which neither defends equality, believing in the public, nor, in addition, believes that wagering for social policies and equality helps growth. And that's why they're wrong. And so when we talk about funding, we have to talk about tax policy, European funds, which you don't know you want to do here in Galicia, and we have to talk about self-financing. And of course we want to transfer to the People's Party that soon the Socialist Parliamentary Group will act with responsibility from the country seeking a new model of self-financing, an adaptation of the previous one, in which the key variables of geographical dispersion, of population ageing, imply that the actual cost of providing services is guaranteed and that the funds needed to meet the reality of the country are generated. We don't believe in the coupon or the economic concert. We believe in an autonomous financing model based on cohesion. But we don't want to make the debate of autonomous funding a policy of key confrontation of the People's Party that doesn't benefit the Greeks and the Greeks. Our commitment is to Galicia, it is to the Greeks and the Greeks, and not to Casado, who comes here in Galicia to make the People's Party's marketing policy, but not to bring solutions, but simply tension. And that's why we're also going to work on the responsibilities commission. [[Applause]] I wanted to end up talking about something that I think is important, which is also the subject of infrastructure. Because look, yesterday there was a historic day for Galicia: the high speed has arrived in our country, it has arrived in our community, in two hours and a quarter connecting Madrid with Ourense, and that is a very positive decision in front of a government of the Union that in infrastructure policy it is neither expected nor expected, which does not lower the motorways of the Minor Valley or of Carballo, which spends 100 times less than the Government of Spain in reducing the fees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u61	And I mean, a year ago, when we did this debate, we said we were going to make a historical discount on AP-9's beaches, and they are. And we said AVE would arrive in Galicia before 2021, and there it is. And do you know what Mr. Feijóo's credibility is? On December 16, 2020, Feijóo said: reopen the fight for the calendar of the AVE, it's best not to deceive, we won't have it in 2021. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows a document.]] This is the word of Feijóo and this word of Feijóo is the same as the budgets of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u63	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u64	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as was to be expected, we have no novelty about any approval of the more than four hundred amendments that we have tabled from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and basically what we have is a reaffirmation of the project that the German Government is going to approve, for the most part, today. And we, from the Galego Nationalist Block, wanted to insist on this final shift in a fundamental idea that we were trying to transmit all these months, which is that right now we see how the world is drumming up and we see how what the Greek Government is doing is basically putting a sale in front of the eyes. And that's a problem, it's a problem that's double, because with a sale in front of the eyes keeping the balance and not falling it's hard, but what's clear is that with a sale in front of the eyes what's not possible is to move forward. And what we're trying to do with the proposals we make in the different sections is precisely that. We're at a time when we understand that not only do we not have to be silent as a country but we have to move forward. We must take advantage of this context of changes, of uncertainties, of difficulties — that no one escapes that it is not easy — precisely to turn it into a moment of opportunity, and in that sense were our amendments. Of course, we understand -- we insist -- that what we cannot do is move with the orientation of these budgets, which is a new scenario to what we have an unrealistic map, which was -- I insist -- an earthquake in the world, and you draw the same map with the same paths, with the same obstacles as before that earthquake happened. And, therefore, what can happen to us as a country, the great risk that we run, is that it happens to us like that trailer that Google Maps misses and that it mixes with a size of 20 meters through a corridor of two and that's leaving things on the way. And, therefore, we have to ask ourselves what we'll leave on the way. We, of course, think that with these budgets the line forward is the most decapitalization of the public system, the public services, the more decapitalization of our economy and the more social inequality. I was talking throughout today about data such as, for example, the percentage of population at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased, the AROPE rate has increased, and therefore we are already in progress in social inequality. Poverty data still does not reflect the impact of the entire year 2020, of the pandemic year, and yet we see as the first time since 2009 the relative poverty rate of our country is higher than the state, despite the social mattress we have here many times because of our living conditions and our social conditions. So we understand that in a country that has almost a quarter of the population at risk of poverty because, of course, this is a conformist reading. We understand that there are also no answers for a labour market that has more precariousness and more temporality, especially about women and youth, and that there is also a obvious deterioration in public services. Therefore, the needs of the context are not met. And I want to insist on something. Throughout today we hear, with great speeches, that health is at the best time in its history. Taking advantage of the fact that we already have with us, Mr. Health Counsellor, we insist that it is not so and the German Government is not assuming the reality that is outside of this parliament. I in my first intervention mentioned that strike which is developing primary care personnel to this day in the Lower Mine district. One of those doctors yesterday shared an information and said, "One of my companions had to go to a chest pain. At this point, at 1 and 4 p.m. of yesterday's day, The Guard, a doctor; Hear, a doctor; The Rosal, zero doctors"; that is, a population of 20,000 inhabitants at that time had two doctors to attend to them. We're talking about AP-9; we don't want to go to other realities anymore, like what I was talking about before the Valdeorras Hospital. [[Applause]] Another example: yesterday's headline, Monday's: "The lack of staff leads Sergas back to denying permission to nurses to Christmas"; nurses and nurses, we're not talking about pediatricians. NURSE AND NURSE There are them, it's not the usual excuse of the German Government. In any case, these are examples that, of course, the situation of public services is not what they're trying to sell to us. And more questions that came out here. It was said here that there were issues that agreed at least with the analysis of the reality that I made from BNG. I tell you, Mr. Puy: I also want companies to be able to invest in this country; now, I want you to return the investment that is made in this country not only through benefits for these companies -- especially those that have an extractive model of our natural resources -- but there can be a return on wealth generation, added value, etc. And that's what our proposals are being put forward, to a change in the production model. And, of course, we ask that there be a plan B. Of course, because another headline I read to you: "Galice trusts Next Generation funds the rescue of her industries in crisis." What's the matter? What are we going to do when — as is already happening and we are all in agreement too — the funds come late, the funds are not sufficient or the funds are associated with a running capacity that neither Galicia nor the State has? What's Plan B? We propose in our amendments are also plans B. For example, let's take advantage of it, do something different and take advantage of the capacity to save Greek. It is that, according to the latest figures — June 2021 — the difference in credits and deposits in this country is almost EUR 27 billion. We create tools like a Welsh public bank, transforming the Igape so that there may be, for example, the ability to attract companies to this country by offering them competitive credit opportunities. Let's do something different. That's what BNG proposes in its economic proposals, especially incardinated in a reading different from the outcome of this crisis. Because indeed, the pandemic is not a financial crisis, it will not happen again what happened in the previous bailout of more than 66,000 euros in the last account, which we will not recover for the public era. But there are other rescues covered by Abanca and not only those Ibex 35. And what we claim is that we have to do this in a different way so that it's an exit that is Welsh and fair to this crisis, and the Greek Government is going in the opposite direction. And that it also goes in some cases in a direction contrary to the Government of the State to the Greek Government, very well to object, but, of course, to this country it's going to be a bad account. I would also like to comment on a question of what was said here about the energy field. For if, indeed, from the BNG we continue to leave the street to protest against this situation, we continue to make proposals for our country to take advantage of its potential producer and we also — of course — take pictures of the turning doors; when there are no photos of turning doors of PP and PSOE we will stop taking them. [[Applause]] And, indeed, there's a poorly focused energy transition. Of course, the best evidence is that the demand for coal is also fired, which should make us think. But that is the case for two fundamental issues that directly affect us as a country. The first is the loss of public control in a sector that is strategic; it's a public control that you don't want to resume either. And that makes it precisely the companies that orchestrate the energy transition and don't think about the planet or think about this country, think about its profit ark. But there's another added problem, which is that neither did Joina have the capacity to anticipate, because before these budgets there were others and there were here proposals to make a galley table for the energy transition, there were proposals to do more than that little paper of energy guidelines that was useless. And, of course, what is regrettable is that the only concern of the People's Party is to make permanent opposition to the proposed Greek electric tariff. Well, I'd better go to this country and be able to compete with a differentiated rate. And, of course, if it's so harmful, it's so difficult to generate energy in this country and transport it, because I don't know why we're living a flood of applications for the deployment of energy companies in this country; it's because something's up to them. [[Applause]] In any case, we will continue to work on these kinds of proposals and others that are rejected. One last mention, on the question of taxation. Well, three ideas. The first is that, not only do they not press the German framework, the autonomous framework, to create new taxes or to update taxes that already exist in different areas, but they will not respond to the obvious fiscal recentralisation that is being orchestrated from the state in such areas as the environment. And, of course, another clear question is that they go in the opposite direction and lower taxes to higher incomes. And here they caricature that, well, the BNG wants to do two things: one, put a wall on the Padarnelo, and another, drown with a hold all the Greeks and Greeks to get us their wallets and give us their coins and tickets. They can continue with that cartoon, which no one believes, but of course we say it's very simple: to increase taxes to those who have the most. Because what is a coat of hair is that it is said that for a salary of 12,000 euros that can have a Welsh or Welsh — which would not be in such a bad economic situation in view of the data we have given in the first part of the debate — it will have a savings of 12 euros a year, which will not even cover what would be the rise of a single fill of the petrol tank, which is 20 euros, and which, at the same time, will cover more than 150,000 euros that will have a saving of 500 euros. Of course, that's what doesn't represent us, because that's why it's going to follow that Robin Hood model backwards from what we were talking about in the other debate. In any case, I have already concluded, Mr President, with a final reflection. Paul Freire said that the world is not, that it is being; and this pedagogy was at work in his great reflection on the constant change we have been living since society. And, of course, in this budgetary debate that ends here because it is clear that the People's Party has chosen to stand still while everyone moves. We, of course, have to keep our vote against because this is not the budget project that this country needs. And we will continue to work around the four ideas that we have expressed in these amendments: strengthening public services, betting on a change of economic model based on innovation, responding to the climate crisis and also moving forward in social rights. So we'll keep thinking big and we'll keep trying to put our foot on the accelerator, while you're still trying to cool this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u67	Ah! of course, for those who were just seeing the president's gesture language, what I was told was that he approached the microphones and nothing else. All right, let's go. I, since they all said we didn't accept any amendments, tried to make that obvious, because I understand that some amendments have to be tabled to say or criticise budgets or say that you would otherwise do them. Of course, it's just that you in the amendments cut off media. Mr. Knight said that if we cut our spending in cabinets... but if there's a report from the Board of Auditors that says you were 236 in 2008 and there's 179, and now we're spending 6.2 million instead of 8 million, that's what you were spending! If this budget is better if we reduce office expenses, in any case it is much better than the last budget you made. Look at this: from 236 to 179, and tell me who's in a coalition government between two forces with 23 ministers. In Germany they have just made one with three forces and has 15 ministers; and multiply by it. Well, at last, I think they cut means, leave instrumental entities — a question that repeats every year — without budget, take out the money that transfers the counseling to the instrumental body, keep the budgets of the instrumental body, but there is no money that comes from the council. It's a hard question to accept. In social policy, they take away EUR 2.7 million for day-care staff, to increase investments in social centres, which are already in budgets from European funds. Anyway, I don't think it's necessary to remember that what you want is to reduce or suppress transfers to pay school teachers. Or they want to reduce the Continent Fund in full pandemic, because they think it's not necessary. Or, for example, we're partly spending bad because we don't create embassies, which is another of the amendments to the Block. Well, these are small problems. The worst thing is that they're the same amendments as they always are: the budget grows but never reaches what grows, there's always got to be more taxes, and I think they'd slow down the recovery right now. Because, Mrs. Presas, what I told you is that the discount is 2.60 on low-income contributors and 0.9 on those who have the most income, which means we have increased the progression of the system set. It is also clear that in these budgets we take EUR 110 million to boost innovation, which goes to the innovation centres and the pemes support package, to the Aerospace Pole of the Rozas or, for example, to the biotechnological sector strategy; aspects that, of course, did not exist when we arrived in the Government of Galicia. Mr. Knight, with all your cordiality, you'll allow me to make a little joke. You said these budgets were right. When I heard him I didn't know if he was criticizing us or thinking that part of the Socialist Party could vote on them after hearing what you were saying in your internal election process, from what they were defending right those who finally won the primary elections. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll take it as an compliment. [[Applause]] This is a budget that would be supported by the Socialist Group or by the Socialist Group's voters. Well, he also talked about who's been traveling to Galicia. We belong to national parties, it's logical that our national leaders come. What's not so logical is that some come to Falcon and some come to the tourist. I, of course, almost preferred, I'd rather you guys come on a tourist. But, finally, these are smaller issues. What's important is that you told me it was taxing, not because there wasn't any new taxes, because you did it when you approved the government budgets, but because it was also because GDP fell more. Well, double the merit of the Government. I mean, not only do taxes go up, but tax pressure goes up, because taxes go up, and because GDP goes down more than the whole of Europe. It's true that part falls by the tourism component, but France and Greece have a very high tourist component, or not? And yet Spain has fallen more. Perhaps this had to do with a closure that, finally, with everything that has happened, that we have discussed many times, which has made the crisis in Spain more intense than in other economies that have taken action in front of the vault before they were taken in Spain. It criticises the lack of consensus; the two groups have done so. What bothered me most about what you said, because it also means you don't understand budget policy or almost a lot of the system of self-financing, is that you say we spend because others give us. That's not true. We receive what we receive, and what we save with the taxes we leave to the Greeks is precisely an improvement in efficiency in spending. But we don't receive or replace what they give us so we can save taxes on the Greeks. That — let me tell you — is nonsense. I mean, we get what the system of self-financing gives us and, of course, we can't make any adjustments there. Those we make in some tax that the State will collect will notice it in the future, for example the income tax. But it falls solely on us. We're not scratching anyone. And if you're referring to European funds, I want to tell you that then there's someone here who's scratching Galicia. Because you know perfectly well, because it is already discussed in this Chamber, that if we had distributed the funds covered, the REACT Fund, the aid to the Royal Decree 5/2021 or the MRR Fund, according to the system of autonomous financing, Galicia would have entered 610 million euros more than it had entered for that support, which, moreover, did not come from the Government of Spain, which comes from Europe. What the Government of Spain does is distribute them in such a way that, with regard to the distribution of the system of self-financing, Galicia loses 610 million euros. So let's be a little serious and please don't say what's not. On European funds, I think it is important that you, instead of saying that there is no project, defend the projects that Galicia has. They've already explained it to them. We asked him to give us some funding proposals. He didn't give one, not one. He didn't say how to take advantage of the European Union's Next Generation funds when the president invited him to this plenary, he didn't have a role. When the first vice president of the Government did so, he was answered and the four I gave him were prioritized. I think it would be good for you to support and not say that there is no project. Then there are agreements that are incorporated into these budgets coming from the Reactivation Commission. You would, I suppose, appreciate that the agreements we reached in the Reactivation Commission for the increase in the FAS are incorporated and improved in the budgets of 2022. But of course, this doesn't even recognize him, so, finally, it's hard to come to terms. At least, since there is one, let's be glad that, indeed, there is some agreement. There are no priorities? Of course there are priorities. More social expenditure, more public investment, less debt and more resources in the hands of citizens. That's what these budgets translate: 11,627 million euros, the biggest in Galician history. The greatest social expenditure in history: EUR 8,660 million for public health, education, social policies and employment. A gross saving of more than 840 million euros, which makes it possible to raise investments, and we are the community that most invests from its non-financial funds; in total, non-financial expenditure, up to more than 2,500 million euros. And in addition, we have a fiscal policy that, I insist, allows families to be capitalized at a time when purchasing power has fallen, at a time when consumption has to be reactivated, at a time when it is necessary to capitalise on it so that they can get out of the recession with investment and consumption. And at the same time with the lowest debt of the communities of common regime in their evolution in recent times. And we believe this is what the country needs, because they support families, because they reinforce social spending and productive investment, because they control debt with less interest expense, because they modernize public services, because they shield health infrastructures and because they will allow us to return to the path of growth that the former councillor of Fairy, Valeriano Martínez, designated as healthy growth. And precisely recalling Valeriano Martínez, and thanking the memory that the socialist spokesman made, as well as the participation of the spokesman of the Nationalist Block Galego in the tribute they made the other day in the San Caetano palace, I want to finish this speech. Wherever you are, I'm sure today, you can see us approve of the budgets that he has designed and that thanks to the commitment of his team they have managed to enter in time and completely by date on this camera, I'm sure you get this approval with a smile on yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u68	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[The Secretary of State and Public Administration asks for the floor.]] Mr. Fairy's counselor wants to speak. Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u69	Yes. At the end of the debate, I just wanted to thank you for the work done by the House's groups and by the House's staff, which can be summarized in the exhibition by the chairman of the 3rd Commission at the beginning of the session, and that this work, this debate that ends today, will work together to bring the budgets into force on January 1st of next year in a normal way. And that on the part of the Government we will execute these budgets by trying to make the predictions they contain come true, by working together to achieve the goals they set and point and consolidate a strong outcome of the crisis for Galicia and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u70	Thank you, Counselor. Before the vote begins, please inform that a letter has been received from the Bureau of Parliament, where Mr Martín Seco García, in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Bureau and the Speaker's Board of Auditors of 13 October 2020, requests the delegation to vote, which will be held at the sittings of 21 and 22, and do so in the spokesman of his parliamentary group, Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez. The computermatics has already been spoken to so that you can incorporate these votes now. So we started the votes. Voted by Commission 3rd, Economic, Farm and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u71	The voting scheme will be in four groups. First we will vote on the amendments by each of the groups amending the joint; in a second group, the vote on the amendments by each of the groups amending the sections and the instrumental public bodies; in a third group, the joint; and in a fourth, the joint vote on the budgets of all sections and instrumental public entities. It's a process that you already know has its complexity. Let's see if it's going to work out for us, sometimes it's going to work out for us, today it doesn't have to go wrong, but well, we're going to do it right. So, let's start. First, we shall vote together on the amendments made by each parliamentary group to the articulated. Voting of amendments to the articulated
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u72	We begin by voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in particular from 1 to 53, 55 and 59 and from 61 to 72. We vote. Voting amendments to articulate Nos. 1 to 53, 55 and 59 and 61 to 72 G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u73	We are now voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block from 1 to 30 and from 32 to 35, but there is a request, made by the Socialist Group, that the number 4, 5, 14 to 19, 21 and 22. We therefore vote these that are separated, first of all. We vote. Voting amendments to articulate Nos. 4, 5, 14 to 19, 21 and 22 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u74	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to articulate Nos. 1 to 30 and 32 to 35, except for numbers. 4, 5, 14 to 19, 21 and 22, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for amendments to sections and instrumental public entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u75	We now vote together, too, the amendments of each of the amending groups to sections and public entities. We then begin by voting first on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to G.P. sections and public entities. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u76	We are now voting for amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, where they call for separate votes. In particular, he called for a separate vote under section 07, Business Council and Public Administration. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, I'm asked here. [[Pause.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a mistake that's not yours, it's ours. In particular, he only asks them to separate themselves from the Galego Health Service. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, they say no. They say no, neither. I am now being informed that the amendments to the Galician Health Service are being broken down, that socialists are being asked to split up. This is the writing you sent here, specifically, to 270... If not, you tell me what it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Give a voice to Mr. Álvarez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u77	What was moved to the Bureau was the request for a separate vote from section 10, in full, and section 12 amendments 270, 271, 273, 274, from 297 to 299, 310, 328 to 332, 335, 336, 338 to 341, 344 to 346 and 348 to 358. [[Cultural, Education and University]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u78	That's right. But those are to the Galego Health Service, amendments from the BNG to the Galego Health Service. [[Murmurs.]] We are in that vote and you are calling for these to be separated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u79	Yes, along with section 10 complete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u80	No, but that goes later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u81	Oh, well, okay, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u82	Of course, we're voting on the amendments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we all talk, we don't understand each other. You better tell me the lawyer, which is what you know. [[Pause.]] What I'm told is that you want to vote separately in the BNG group these amendments to the Galician Health Service, which you just read. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, so we're going to vote on those. And then, when the time comes, we'll vote on what you said to me from section 10, but that time hasn't come yet. So, we're going to vote in the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block what you're asking to separate, which are the amendments to the Galician Health Service you've read before, which, if you want, I'll read again now. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] We therefore voted in particular on the amendments that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is asking to separate. We vote. Voting of Amendments Nos. 270, 271, 273, 274, 297 to 299, 310, 328 to 332, 335, 336, 338 to 341, 344 to 346 and 348 to 358 to section 12 of the PG. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. [[Galego de Saúde]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u83	We now vote on the rest of the amendments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, they must be voted on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What we've been referred to here is that you wanted to vote separately for section 10, but it doesn't refer to any amendments. [[Cultural, Education and University]] [[Pause.]] We now vote on the amendments of the BNG to section 10 and the rest of the amendments to the Galician Health Service of the BNG. Did you ask...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] Of course, this is just like this, about the march, it's very bad to understand, because they think from one side, they think from another, they think from the middle, and this, as you will understand, is a hard thing to understand. Let's see if we're all clear. So in section 10 you ask the BNG amendments to vote for them separately. We're going to vote for that. We vote. Vote for amendments to section 10 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. [[Cultural, Education and University]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u84	So, other amendments to the parliamentary group. They got really bad here, but now it's what you say. We vote. Voting amendments to section 12, except for the numbers. 270, 271, 273, 274, 297 to 299, 310, 328 to 332, 335, 336, 338 to 341, 344 to 346 and 348 to 358 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. [[Galego de Saúde]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting of articulated text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u85	And now we are voting on the articulated. The joint text of the Commission's opinion is put to the vote. We vote. The draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022 was voted on by Commission 3a, Economics, Farms and Budgets. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The joint text of the Commission's opinion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u86	We are voting now, also in a joint vote, all sections and instrumental public entities. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Presas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u87	Excuse me, Mr. President. You know it was a busy morning in my parliamentary group. I'm sorry we didn't request it in writing. We wanted to request a separate vote from the following sections: 01 ; 02 ; 03, 20, and finally also the separate vote from the instrumental public advisory bodies, i.e. the Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. [[Galiza Parliament]] [[Accounts Council]] [[Galga Culture Council]] [[Advisory Council]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u88	The last two entities? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So we vote these separately, but is that also what you ask for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group I have here to request a separate vote on 01, 02 and 03. [[Parliament, Council of Auditors and Council of Culture]] The Block just ordered 01, 02 and 03 separately. Joint voting of budgets of all sections and instrumental public entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u89	So we started with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which calls for them to be separated by 01, 02 and 03, which are Parliament, the Council of Auditors and the Council of Culture. Vote of Sections 01, 02 and 03 of the Ditame issued by Commission 3a, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. [[Parliament of Galicia]] [[Accounts Council]] [[Galga Culture Council]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These sections are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u90	And finally, we have to vote on the rest that Mrs Presas has expressed, which also said here that she has separated them, except for the one we have already voted on. That is, they would be the instrumental public entities, these two that he said, and 20. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Right, it's 20. We vote. Vote of Section 20 and of the instrumental public bodies Economic and Social Council and Galego Council for Labour Relations of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economic, Farm and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. [[Advisory Council of Galicia]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 14; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. This section and these instrumental public entities are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u91	And now there is the last vote, the joint vote on the budgets of the other sections and instrumental public entities. We vote. Voting of the sections and instrumental public entities not voting for the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These sections and instrumental public entities are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-21-DSPG063.u92	The vote on the budgets of all sections and public entities is adopted by the vote I have just commented on, and therefore the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2022 are approved. [[Applause]] And here comes the session.
