ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session. I am communicating a change in the delegation of vote. In particular, it is Mr Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz's vote for today's votes in Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández. Let's start with point 3 of the agenda. Proposals by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and 14 other Members, on the preparation by the Council of Galicia of the evaluation of the 2nd Women's and Science Programme, as well as on the start of the 3rd Programme
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u2	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and Socialist. [[(The Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Additional amendment:Add to the first point the following text at the end: "... which must be forwarded to the House for its debate including in the detailed information of the budget investment executed."Additional amendment:Add to the end of the second paragraph the following paragraph:"The III Women's and Science Programme must count on its own budget including a specific match to ensure the functioning of the Women's and Science Unit."Additional amendment: Add a third point with the following text:"3. To introduce the necessary actions, even if necessary by amending the applicable legislation, to ensure the incorporation and participation in the Women's and Science Unit of entities and collectives representative of the area of inquiry in Galicia."]] [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its honourable Member, Noa Díaz Varela, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 160.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this table the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of addition:In the resolution of the initiative, the following sentence should be added, in paragraph 2, at the end: "..., and the entities of the associative tissue of the Italian researcher."Additional amendment:In the resolution part of the initiative a new point 3 should be added which will have the following content:"3. For proper execution, this program must have a specific and sufficient budget allocation."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. On February 11, there was the commemoration of International Women's and Girls' Day in Science, whose objective is to ensure full and equitable access to science by women and girls. Consequently, and aware of the importance of women in the field of science and research, the Popular Parliamentary Group presents an initiative on the 2nd Women's and Science Programme 2016-2020 and the plans to approve a new edition once the evaluation work of this program is completed. The second Galego Programme of Women and Science 2016-2020 aims to advance the effective incorporation of the criteria of equal opportunities between women and men into the Greek system of science, technology and innovation to achieve a real paradigm change in the scientific world that enables us to achieve tangible and lasting results by taking advantage of both the talent of women and men. Because, ladies, talent doesn't have gender. This plan closes between three axes: a first axis, of institutional and organizational change; a second axis, of balanced presence of women and men in the science, technology and innovation system; and a third axis, of gender perspective in processes and work processes. Sometimes talking about programs and plans seems to support everything. And here I would like to make a brief tour of some of the actions or actions promoted by the Government of Galicia in the framework of this program through the General Secretariat of Equality in the wake of the Women's and Science Unit. In the first axis, institutional and organizational change aims to focus on creating a new policy framework that avoids indirect discrimination by working simultaneously to modify the system of beliefs and values that support androcentrism and lack of gender perspective of the intangible aspects that make up organizational culture, which we think is fundamental. And in this field, training activities have been developed in general for universities and teachers; holding several meetings with the equality units of the Greek university system; collaboration in the celebration of the Day of Girls in ICT, the #PointsTech? competition, together with Cesga, for the promotion of scientific and technological vocations among girls; the Ada and Diana programme to encourage the presence of girls and girls in technological careers; the Athens programme to promote women's participation in the information society, increasing their confidence and security in the use of new information and communication technologies; the Gallegas Referents programme to enhance the role of women leaders in the professional field; and to inform the women who are leaders in their respective sectors in order to increase the presence of women in the public; the Guide to Co-education for Schools. The Women's Portage project, which this February 11, 2021, premiered on the Internet and aims to introduce scientists from Galicia, women who have known ahead of time, who have opened roads, and who can be referenced to many children. It consists of a series of interviews to the women of Greece that were awarded with the Maria Josefa Wonenburger Planells award, which has been awarded annually since the year 2007 to the General Secretariat of Equality, the Council of Galicia, through the Women's and Science Unit. The Plan Projects "Women of Himself", which aims to recognize the values and approaches of women in cultural, scientific and intellectual innovation, and to place them in the contexts that touched them to live to discover forgotten aspects and the knowledge and dissemination of women relevant in history today. The Maria Josefa Wonenburger Planells prize; the exhibition of the winners at this prize, which runs through all the educational centers of Galicia, not only for these women to be fruit of the award and recognition of a day, but for them to be known by all the schoolchildren and schoolchildren of Galicia their work and their dedication. Educational units on Emilia Pardo Bazán, Concepción Arenal and Maria Josefa Wonenburger Planells for schoolchildren. Training courses for teachers; projects for high school and bachelor's school, no more or less equal that favor the meeting with straight women leaders in their respective sectors, such as science or rural, so that boys and girls have female references in sectors where women are underrepresented. The Equal Accounts project, for primary children and children, which visualizes and enhances the participation and production of women as fundamental parts in the configuration and development of contemporary society, in order to recognize their political, social, artistic, scientific and cultural role. Secondly, on the balanced presence of women and men in the science, technology and innovation system, the priorities are set to focus on reducing existing gender gaps and it is intended to increase women's participation in the different phases of scientific and research activity, in the different themes and professional categories that articulate the system. There are also several actions, such as the EMEGA Women's Entrepreneurship Program's ITEF line, which is highly valued in the world of scientific women, which can carry out their project with a specific line of economic aid and premiums to promote or improve a clearly innovative, scientific or technological-based business project in women-led companies that share the creation of female employment. Collaboration with Woman Entrepreneur, University of Santiago. The Day of Conciliation in Enterprises; the Day of Girls in ICT; the VI Edition of the Woman Entreprise contest, a business contest for innovative ideas; the IX Edition of Awards to the Introduction of Gender Perspective at the University. And the third axis, which includes the perspective of gender in processes and processes of work, is a very important axis aimed at the cross-sectional integration of the principle of equal opportunities between men and women in the main processes of work, both in planning and execution, and in evaluation. What we're trying to do here is to cross-section the principle of equal opportunities between women and men throughout the process, ranging from the creation of knowledge and their transfer of productive activity to their subsequent use in the fields of economic, professional, public and private activity. Here we have free configuration materials for pupils from educational centers in Galicia, ESO; there's a subject of gender equality in Bachelor's degree: Co-education for the 21st century. The Prize Communicating in Equality, the Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021. And as both the Labour Council has stated at the last meeting and the General Secretariat of Equality, at this time, this 2nd Galego Programme of Women and Science, which ended in the year 20 is being evaluated. The result of this evaluation will be the starting point for drawing up a third programme. We brought this initiative, which we hope to achieve consensus, because I transferred to the groups a possible transaction, as Mrs Rodil said yesterday, which must be spoken first, because we spoke first. I haven't had an answer yet, but you have the contents of the transaction, as I was asked, as you said yesterday here in this gallery. And what's the goal? For the objective is to improve all this particular situation and situations that we can all bring here to Parliament by scientific women, by research women who have suffered or at some time suffered some kind of direct or indirect discrimination, which are the worst and most difficult to detect and the most difficult to prove and probably denounce. But in this sense, I believe that the latest scholarships and the latest calls that took out the College of Education and Universitary Orders have already focused on that possible discrimination and have already put measures to prevent discrimination on the basis of maternity, low maternity, as has already happened to some scientist, who we have already brought to this House and even have received it and we have presented very concrete initiatives thinking about people with names and surnames we all know. We want this to be a starting point for further work in this area, which is an area where there is no further discrimination. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u5	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you again. I'm going to start by offering some data like there's a difference of more than ten points between registered women and registered men, 55.2% women, 44.8% men. And in this context, the area of knowledge of engineering and architecture, in that area women represent only 26.5%, while in health sciences, that of care, again care, we are 72.7%. Besides, women barely exceed 12% in computer careers, and by the way, a figure that far from improving every time goes down worryingly. In addition, in Galicia there are only 22.4% of women professors, and despite being more PDI -- research staff -- we're also less senior teachers, 40%, little more than 40%. Besides, and now with UNESCO data, less than 30% of those who research around the world are women, less than 30%, and those who do so in known STEMs, which is the term that groups, in English, the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics, have fewer publications, receive a lower pay for their research and, of course, they do not progress as much in their careers as men. We said it yesterday, on the issue of care, shared care was for men 70%, shared care, very well, and we women, just got to 40% of that shared care. And all of this resulted in, because it turned out that during the pandemic there was a decline in women's scientific production, something that has already been warned here in the Reactivation Commission, at the end of last year, the three Greek rectors. By the way, when does a woman return? At the end of last year in Parliament and at the same time at the same time the Women's and Science Unit of the Ministry and Science and Innovation also spoke of the fact that the care gap was becoming more difficult for women to develop their research activity and a slight less scientific production. The worrying and curious thing is that there is another fact, which was what the three directors warned, namely the rector of the University of Vigo, and it was that not only women reduced their scientific production in those months of confinement in which they shared care, but rather -- and there is the worrying -- they increased their scientific production at that time. At whose cost? --we can ask ourselves --. These days an interview appeared in a medium of communication to two different generation Welsh researchers, and they were alarming about this obvious inequality in the scientific field. And in addition to the common of mortals, we can already imagine the question of inequality in science, they left two ideas about the table that I also leave here so that we can reflect on them, or at another time. One is that women's figures in scientific leadership are much more underestimated, science is men's business; and another is the so-called impostor's syndrome, the constant feeling that a woman who reaches a position of responsibility in the scientific field is constantly thinking: will I deserve this that I have achieved?, precisely connected with the previous idea. So, all of this that we've just offered from now on shows a picture of nothing encouraging and realizes, in addition, that we're not winning the battle for equality in science, but quite the opposite. That's why we welcome the plans, of course, but whenever the previous success is made clear. That is why we have already asked that the assessment of this LNP should be rigorous and, of course, with the impact rate of each of the actions, if not, it will do nothing. Because our girls, our girls grow up listening to topics and they keep growing up listening to topics that are reinforcing stereotypes that influence the configuration of their tastes, tastes and affinity. We need to tear down from very old age, very early those stereotypes that link science to masculinity, and it's still so, and to give them new examples, that there are. It is certainly making a very important and commendable effort in some cases by the educational community. But they're voluntary efforts and they're not enough, they have to be done from regular education. And it's no use for a co-educational or equal education. Girls have to know the story of women to reflect on, we have to demand in the regulated teaching the learning of women referring to science. We have to demand it in our textbooks as well. Women, moreover, must be in all those spaces of scientific decision-making, and we must also be in the germ of science, instead of creating content, because this will be the way we will ensure that our future conforms from a feminist perspective, from equality. And all we just said is at the end of this non-law proposal, which deals with the Women's and Science Programme of what we are, by the way, looking forward to knowing its results. Because, in view of the above, in view of the exposé, it doesn't seem like we've experienced an improvement in any of the three axes of the plan, at any one. But mostly number two and number three. The spokesperson of the People's Party spoke of the 1st and spoke of the equality units of the Greek universities; it's curious to talk about the effort of those units when the budget was reduced to half for them. But, speaking of the 2nd and 3rd, neither was the presence of men and women in the Greek science system, as we have just shown, and of course much less already in positions of responsibility, nor did this principle integrate into each stage of production, transfer and application of knowledge as expressed in point 3. And we can continue to award prizes to women at the forefront of science, because we have them, many and fortunately more and more visible, and organize exhibitions and activities in school, but, as we don't make this a continuous, at the end this doesn't come, it doesn't come up and it's showing that it's not enough. We need a real commitment, we need to legislate, we need actions, as I say, carried on in time. We are sorry, but we are surprised that it is the People's Party who today wants to be set up in the defence party of this cause, it surprises us. We're surprised that this is the party that's holding a government that isn't worrying about too much of this either, because, as I say, there's nothing new to tell in the last decade. Of course, if the People's Party wants that commitment to women and science, it should start by requiring the Government to maintain that it guarantees our biological cycles, that our biological cycles, for example, be respected in our professional careers. And the spokeswoman of the People's Party has just said here that they have actually taken steps lately. Well, I think it's not enough, if you talk to researchers' associations and researchers, they'll realize that they're not enough, and they can tell you themselves. But, in any case, we've been giving birth since we exist, and scientific women think that, too, I think. So, of course, solving this now when it's a recurring problem of many years ago, I don't know very well what the engagement of that party is. We're talking about postdoc investigators' contracts, which is a very recurrent issue. We can talk about what just happened to her -- which finally resolved well, but had to be resolved in the trials -- what happened to Maria de la Fuente. As I say, a recurring problem. Despite starting their contracts with their promotion, these women, to whom they are expected to have children, because of their period of maternity leave, cannot end with their promotion, which means that this is a comparative aggravating in the evaluation and loss of options for new contracts. As I say, no, it's not a problem that's solved. They may say yes, but we say no. They took timid steps, but they're not enough. And if they really wanted to solve it in the best way possible, what they would have to do is sit with them, but they didn't, either, they didn't. And that's why we ask you, for the elaboration of that third plan of woman and science, in the collaborations that you propose, that we do not discuss, but that we also include the associative associative tissue researcher in Galicia. By the way, one of these associations, the InvestGal association, supported by many others once they launched this initiative, registered yesterday even in this Parliament calling for legal progress in the field of science, which I now say we certainly support that initiative. Because, of course, as I say, they report that maternity leave is penalizing, and nothing has been done in spite of not being something new, but it's from old age. The reply of the Board?, none, none at all this time. Now they take timid steps. What did they do, look the other way. The response of the People's Party, by the way, the response of the People's Party in these few months that we've been in law was to vote against each time we brought something that was supposed to defend the rights of these researchers. Yes, they voted against it, but they didn't vote against it once, they voted against it twice, twice they voted against it. That is, we have successfully researched careers for women, and then we present a non-law proposal for women's presence in science. At least, I'm sorry, but it surprises us. What you don't mean -- and I'm done now -- we have nothing to object to an evaluation of this already completed plan, as I say, whenever it's rigorous and with the measure of concrete impacts -- very important -- and nothing to object to a third edition, but whenever it comes accompanied by the necessary budget that it counts with the associations of personal researchers from the Greek, which, as we have just explained, have a very comprehensive knowledge of the situation and unfortunately still know it better than the Government itself, which is who would have to give it solutions. [[Applause]] Having said this, the transaction, by the way, we have already commented on it from here, we accept that proposed transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I remembered our conversation yesterday, Mrs. Prado; I was also preparing this initiative, I was reminding us of yesterday's conversation, which told us to justify the vote against the motion that we presented from the Nationalist Block in Wales, accusing us of whether we wanted or were just looking for headlines, and that the parliamentary group that supported the Government, the People's Party, only voted in favour or brought in silent initiatives, of which allow us to make enormous progress. And I, reading the explanatory statement and, above all, the decisive part of this initiative that we are debating today and we will vote, wondered whether this proposal was just an example of this, initiatives, as has been said here at one time, that I am seeing some face that I am not for anything belligerent or botafumer, who are not in any case looking for initiatives of enormous magnitude and silence, after years of incalculable and unquestionable commitment on the part of the Group of Galicia and the People's Party to equality in science and research for women. So, I thought, also preparing for the position and intervention of the BNG in this debate, which was the service sheet of the People's Party since 2009, because anyone would think here many times that they just entered the door of Galicia; no, they've ruled you for 12 years. What is the service sheet since 2009 of the People's Party in this field and specifically with the Women's and Science Programme? Because, of course, we heard Mrs Prado here, who also put together programs and proposals, a little bit of everything, to see if they were getting together a little bit wider about it, but the fact is that a lot of things have happened for 12 years now, because this program, Mrs Prado also said so, is already 2007-2008, that the first one is created. Because the People's Party left Galicia for four years without this program basically because it didn't give them the desire to continue between 2012 and 2014, which is when it corresponded to the development and approval of the 2nd Women's and Science Programme, they left an entire legislation to this country without it. They did not actually present the second program until 2016. They failed for years and still today Decree 33/2007, so the Women's and Science Unit is created, basically reducing this body to a meeting a year, which does no harm, to decide which person will be awarded at the Maria Wonenburger Prize. In fact, one of the tasks or functions that is entrusted to Women's and Science Unit is to provide, to bring about the actual data of which is the situation of women in the scientific and technological field. You might try to take a little closer to the reality of our country's scientific women, but it's going to be hard for them to find detailed data. I want to refer to the evaluation supported by the I Women's and Science Programme that was approved in this country and which, among other issues in 2008 made us and brought us closer to a profile of which women are dedicated to creating knowledge and producing scientific knowledge in our country. In fact, the full Women and Science Unit does not meet to address action proposals related to this program since May 2018. They have also maintained the program and the Women's and Science Unit without budget for years. You can go to these 2021s already in force and you will find that the budget game for this purpose is about EUR 46,000. They have violated the decree that requires, by the way, two evaluations, one of them an annual follow-up report on that program that has never been done since you entered the Gate of Galicia. And, of course, in front of this panorama now comes the People's Party telling the People's Party that you have to do a third program after a previous evaluation of the second, which is about to end; something like this arrives on February 11th or March 8th, you have to do something and above all you have to do what you do. Look, the Unit and the Women's and Science Programme were pioneers in 2007 when they were created, it was a necessity at that time to promote women's participation in scientific and technological science, it was a necessity to visualize the work of scientific women throughout history, as well as the enormous work they are doing today, and it was and is especially important and urgent to break down the barriers that still prevent women from developing their professional careers in equality with men, but that was also important and urgent for the six years that pure political sectarianism decided not to give them continuity, for a lot of breast blows that you're going to be given here today and now. We from the BNG what we want, and in that sense the approaches that we make with our amendments, are that this proposal serves for something more than to make it happen one day a year. So we made three proposals for addition and amendment to the resolution: First, let this evaluation report accompanying the second programme be forwarded to the House for its debate by the groups, including what were the budgetary investments carried out for its development. And I insist that the budget line you're going to set in the budgets is about €46,000. That's something the Union should start to change. Secondly, to budget this program and specifically the Women's and Science Unit to ensure that the program runs and develops, but above all that the unit works as planned by its creative decree, which -- I insist -- goes far beyond meeting once a year, which does no harm, to convene the Maria Wonenburger award, or to do so from time to time -- I insist that from May 2018 it does not meet -- to make action proposals that lead to different administrations, including the Galician Union. And finally, what we propose is to integrate precisely into the unit representatives of the entities and collectives that from the field of research and science in this country are developing an ingenious and absolutely necessary work to make the role of women visible in the scientific and technological field, to make visible the enormous contribution of their work to the social, economic, cultural and human development of this country, but above all to make visible references to the younger generations. We're being represented -- I agree with you, Mrs. Prado --, being represented in all areas is one of the best ways of believing that we can be all that we propose: group bosses, technologists, cancer researchers, oceanographers, astronauts or -- what do I know? - a woman in front of the presidency of the Senate at some point. [[Applause]] Women still have to overcome today, and despite all that legislation says in this country, women still have to overcome an enormous amount of obstacles -- Mrs. Prado may also be President of the Union -- to carry out her career, to be able to reconcile her with her personal life. And they suffer, we still suffer glass ceilings and sticky floors, vertical and horizontal discrimination that make nearly half of the women researchers leave their jobs full-time after having their first daughter or son; or that, despite being half in the predoctoral stage, only two out of ten get to take a chair. In the removal of these vertical and horizontal barriers, those discriminations that still persist even in the post-Doutical calls of the Galician Union -- as recently believed by the People's Valedora -- in the removal of those barriers is where we believe from the BNG that we have to act as society and, of course, as Parliament. And we hope that we will be able to speak of this soon after the proposal that our group has registered, the law that we want to call also to visualize one of the great researchers and oceanographers not only of Galicia, but of the world, the Alvarian Angel Law. And here I want to make a parenthesis, which we can discuss as soon as the Galician Board sends to the House the last role that is missing in order to bring it to debate. Because, if we were misconceptions -- that we are not -- it would be reasonable to think that when legislative initiatives are another group, the procedures are going -- let's go -- on Thursday, no, on the next; when they are those of the Nationalist Block Galego it seems that the deadlines for delaying their discussions are extended. [[Applause]] As we do not have -- and already to finish -- more interventional shifts, and with regard to what Mrs Prado said, which, in fact, we greatly thank her for sending us the compromise proposal last night, I will tell her that it is good, that she collects much of our amendments and that we will therefore vote in favour. But that, whether it's a headline or a flower of a day, that this commitment to equality in this particular field of science and technology in this country is 365 days of the year. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, look, in the People's Party we're not going to apologize for defending equality. You come here saying it surprises us that the People's Party defends these things. Look, equality is not a heritage on the left, to see how you understand it! It's not heritage on the left! [[Applause]] It's just that you're with Mrs. Calvo's speech: "Sorry, beautiful, but feminism..." [[Applause]] No, Mrs. Díaz, feminism is left, right, center... feminism is not the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party or the Galician Nationalist Block as much as they strive to come here to smile and make ironic phrases about defending the equality of the Galician People's Party. We've got four, this is the fourth legislate with President Feijóo in command. And yesterday the president, Mrs. Rodil, said that if the women in this country didn't vote for the People's Party, the People's Party wouldn't have every time we presented ourselves to the most-backed elections in the polls. That's good! [[Applause]] It's good that you want to capitalize on the issue of equality, on the defense of women; no, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the heritage of the left, to see if they interiorize it. [[Applause]] That's good! Look, yesterday, Mrs. Rodil, I didn't criticize, I didn't say not to the whole initiative by criticizing. Look, you came here to propose a Valley of Equality that can't be, because we already have a People's Valley. I've already said: if you don't like the role of the people's valet, tell you; but when you come here don't put your hand over your back telling you that you're doing very well and then come here looking for a replacement. But it's just that if it wasn't a Valley of Equality that you were proposing, because it wasn't, because you were proposing a sanctioning agency, that's why the Labour Inspectorate is already here. They call things by their name. And that's why I told him you were looking for a headline. And, look, I really don't, I don't have any aspirations to be president of the board, I let Mrs. Pontón, who is the oldest Member of this House and has a lot more merit and a lot more gallon to be president of the board than I do. [[Applause]] Look, and talk about registering initiatives next to the days. Look, February 11th, indeed, was Women's and Science's Day. We presented this initiative on 9 and its 10th and its collection of issues that are already collected in the current legislation, in Legislative Decree 2/2015. So, look, you come here to teach what the commemoration of the days is and to record initiatives next to the days of the commemoration I'm not going to allow you. Because you guys do exactly the same thing, so don't come here with that smile because we can't afford it. Mrs. Díaz, you said that the board didn't do anything for the investigators. Look, Galicia is the only autonomous community in the state that first introduced an additional score to compensate candidates who are out of work for maternity, paternity or any other medical reason. This was done precisely... don't say no! it's absolutely unworthy that you deny the evidence, because besides you said there were researchers who didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: this was done with the research departments of the universities, and these departments very positively valued these innovative measures implemented. I'm sorry you don't value them, but, look, who has to value them by valuing them, and there's an even greater score just to break up with discrimination when accessing these bags. And to avoid discrimination about scientific production -- which you're so worried about -- they're given an additional score of 0.1 point per month down to a maximum of 1 point, which, although priori seems not to be a small but an important differentiation. For the first time this year objective criteria, novices and differentiations were introduced in that sense, which do not exist in any other community in Spain. Don't say you didn't do anything when you did. And, speaking of budget allocation, look, actually, the plans are papers and they have to have enough budget allocation. And the Galician Budget Board for this year 2021 is 228 million euros for R & D+i, doubling the resources invested in 2014, 113 million euros. This is our service sheet, Mrs. Rodil, which you were so worried about. See, the joint work of administrations, universities, knowledge centres and private companies reflects the increase in the latest legislation: 24.5% total investment in R+D+i, 7 points above the average of the state; and 18.34% to staff dedicated to these activities, 6 points more than at the national level. And they're also more women employed in R & D, 4,567, and researchers, 2,739 in Galicia, who in the entire historical series since 2003, also reaching a weight greater than the state average, 41.2% and 40.8%, respectively. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, are there things left to do? Yes, but do not deny what has been done, do not deny the service sheet of this Government of Galician Union and the People's Party that bothers them so much. [[Applause]] And they don't try to capitalize neither the defense of equality, nor the defense of women, nor the defense of women in the world of science, because we won't consent to it, because we also defend it and what we have to go to is the hand, we have to go hand in hand in that defense. And don't come here with that smile when I held their hand and when I saw an absolutely peaceful, conciliatory proposal and you came here laughing and saying it wasn't worth anything. Well, they had made a lot more amends, which I accepted. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u11	...almost in its entirety, Mrs. Rodil. You presented three points in your amendment, I accept the last two. And Mrs. Díaz, who says they'll accept the transaction. It's just that, Mrs. Díaz, we accept all the amendments, it would only be missing to tell us now that they don't want us to accept the amendments they tabled to this initiative. So I appreciate the joint work, I appreciate the contributions because they improve the initiative, logically. And I think this is the way to go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u13	...working, all side by side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u15	...and not one in front of another...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u17	...to put on medals and look like it's one's heritage and not another's.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u19	Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u20	Then he brings us through the House's services to the transaction. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Sol Díaz Mouteira and six other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government to the central government for the transfer to Galicia of competences for the management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u21	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc Galego (BNG), the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-law:Additional amendment:Add the following text in the final resolution:"and of the other competences related to the management of the sea and the coast: ports of general interest, fisheries sector management, oceanographic research, professional fishing titrations and maritime rescue.In addition, Parliament urges the Joint Council to develop and comply with the Coastal Ordering Plan (POL), in particular the provisions of the additional third provision.)]] To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The Greeks and the Greeks know as no one's needs, as well as they are known by the Government of Greece, who knows the reality of our territory and who is looking for the best solutions to meet these demands. This is the starting point of the Galician Council's request to the Government of Spain for the transfer to Galicia of the management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial, request that this People's Parliamentary Group be joined by this non-law proposal and for which we, of course, request the support of the groups that make up this House. A transfer of powers within the framework of the Spanish Constitution, since at no time is claiming ownership or ownership of maritime-terrestrial areas; by the way, the only category of goods which appears unique in the Constitution, in Article 132. What the German Government demands is the management of the proximity of our coastal territory, which has a much more detailed knowledge than the state administration can have. And here we are in the framework of the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, where Article 27 establishes the management of the coast as exclusive competence of Galicia. With more than 2,000 kilometres of coastal perimeter, the history of Galicia, its present, its future would not be understood without our coastline, absolutely connected with our society, our economy, the exploitation of our resources, business activity, heritage, the environment, landscape, culture, and, like not, our tourism. We therefore have an obligation to protect our coastline and its resources in any of its forms, as a form of sustainable income, in addition to its environmental value, built heritage and urban management. And the Galician Union has to articulate the mechanisms to protect and care for that coast, and so it's doing so with the design and implementation of a whole range of studies and regulations: such as the Coastal Management Plan, the Land Management Guidelines, the Landscape Strategy of Galicia, the Land Law and its regulations, the Landscape Protection Act, the Landscape Guidelines -- which have just come into force and which is already a reason for a question this afternoon -- and the landscape collection guides, some of them related to the coast, such as aquaculture, the dunes and beach system and landscape integration. Thanks to this work, today in Galicia we have a complete normative corpus in which landscape and urbanism refers. At this point and with this scenario, one more step must be taken so that Galicia can provide a better public service on its coast, where about 5,000 buildings are located between schools, sewage treatment stations or health centers. That is why we support the Galician Union's claim that the State should transfer its full powers to the management of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. A competition that would allow the Galician Union to exercise autonomously and more appropriately the comprehensive policy of the Greek coast in different areas such as seafood, port, fishing and urban planning. The integral management of the Greek coast -- including the maritime-terrestrial public domain, the contiguous land subject to limitations and protection services -- would, among other things, reduce the loss of efficiency in the administration, reduce delays and insecurity, improve the efficiency of the use of economic funds, facilitate the integration of the uniform development of urban territorial management. But we would still have more advantages, as is the simplification of the administration with the transfer of competition which would reduce the duality that generates the existence at this time of two administrative levels in this area. It is also necessary to amend in this respect all the regulations on the issue of sectoral reports and, above all, on the state side of the coast. Galicia has already simplified its regulations in this matter, which makes it possible to a good extent for many projects to be realized sooner. What is the proposal of the Galician Council to amend these state sector reports? Well, a mission of a maximum of three months, that silence be positive and that be recompiled in a single body, be it the Delegation or the Government Subdelegation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government has the closest and most detailed knowledge of our coastal perimeter; a suitable normative body to manage as no one on the coast according to its peculiarities and circumstances; and, above all, the intention of giving the best public service to the Greeks and the Greeks who live on our shoreline, who live on our shoreline and enjoy our shoreline. The Galician Union is therefore in a position to claim this management. An assignment that would culminate in the transfer of powers in the area of coastal management that the State began there in 1985, but which did not subsequently complete in the case of our community with the transfer of the management of authorizations and concessions. Transfer of authorizations and constructions which the State reserves for itself in relation to the Italian coast, but which it has transferred to Catalonia and Andalusia; Catalonia in 2008 and Andalusia in 2011. And why not Galicia? Well, it won't be for asking, ladies. Because the Galician Council has been claiming it since 2009 without your request being heeded. The last of your petitions or requests, without having this non-law proposal, was held by the President of Galician Union himself at the last meeting with the President of the Government of Spain, on January 29th. A meeting at which the President of the Board has also put something that is of great concern to the Italian Government, which is the double amendment of the rules on the back. On the one hand, the amendment of the transitional provision tenth of the General Back Regulation, to clarify that residential and host use are analogous and interchangeable; and, secondly, to modify the additional third provision of the Back Law. In this way, all uses that allow the Law of the Land to be permitted in traditional constructions pre-existing to the Law of Back. It would allow for the recovery and life of old salting factories, vats, cucumbers, canteens, parks and other buildings of great heritage affected by the back protection service. Many of these real estates have long had important economic or social activity and are now out of use or understated, affecting our shoreline and losing part of our history. Recompile it, ladies and gentlemen, so far as it is now. The German Government insists, as has been done since 2009, on requesting the transfer of competence from the management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial, which they enjoy Catalonia and Andalusia, but we do not. We have the best knowledge of our territory, we have the appropriate regulatory body that would allow us to assume that comprehensive policy, that would allow us to manage this area according to our peculiarities, make the most appropriate decisions with greater administrative agility and, in addition, give a new life to an important set of environmental, heritage and architectural properties. These are the reasons why this People's Parliamentary Group is presenting this initiative, but also because of responsibility and opportunity in the face of a new event. Because if the demand for the transfer of powers from the management of the land-based public domain and the request for changes in the rules of the back has been put on the table with total transparency and light, now comes the Ministry of Ecological Transition with a preliminary draft of the law of climate change which indirectly amends a law of back that will significantly affect Galicia on the coast. Again, the Ministry of Ecological Transition, or one of the nicknames that is being used lately with all due respect, of "ecological intransigence" will not remain. Recently they were talking about attacking the gain industry by raising the protection of the wolf, now it's up to the sea industry. What's next? Thanks to the changes Mrs. Ribera wants to make, more than a hundred companies and other activities in the area of the sea and its associated industry are being put at risk. Nearly 5,000 buildings located near 80 coastal municipalities, where schools, health centers are found, and that uncertainty about the future, where is it located, in the earthly public domain. The Greek Government and this parliamentary group are in favour of transferring to Galicia those powers that can be better managed from the autonomous community itself. We have the same right as other autonomous communities and the forms of hainas, either by means of a royal decree, because Galicia, as we have already seen, has assigned the exclusive title of responsibility for the management of its coastline, as the Statute of Self-Government collects; or by asking the Congress of Deputies to transfer it through an organic law. We hope you will hear us from this House on this occasion and, of course, if it is with the support of all the groups represented here, much better. Nothing else for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u24	Good morning. I must confess that I do not fail to marvel at the ability of the People's Party to reinvent itself, to camouflage itself, to dress up, to do one thing and to say the opposite, and I do not mean the change of Genoa, which is at present these days, along with the statements in a court of justice of Mr. Bárcenas. I don't mean this preventive eraser of the past in which the People's Party is now; it used to do it by beating hammers and deleting hard drives or by acting on the, say, state bells, so called; now they use more sophisticated methods, they're going to make a change. By the way, at this point, I have to admit I've lost myself in the flood of corruption cases where the People's Party is in, and there's also something to do. You should make a guide or a chart so you can guide us in this matter. And in the case of transfers, you beat all the world records to amend yourself, to correct yourself, so many that I've already lost track of it. Look, let's do a little review, 'cause you talked about 2009. In 2009 the People's Party in its electoral programme collected the transfer of powers, from an agreement which was reached in this Parliament in the previous legislation calling on the State to transfer 70 competences, there was agreement for that. And in one of the first Councils of the Union, which took place on 8th of 10th of 2009, Mr. Fexóo in his statements to the press released one of those blaring phrases. He said, "We'll start the greatest self-government phase in Galicia's history." Send a trick. In that Board of Deputies the report Rueda, the Rasputin of Transfers, was introduced. In that report there was talk about giving priority to 17 transfers. Between them: AP-5 and AP-53, we already know what happened. Labour inspection, road traffic and safety, meteorology, watersheds, ship safety, oceanographic research, nautical-fishing titrations, ports of general interest, coastal management, public maritime-terrestrial domain. It was priority in 2009 and we're in 2021 talking about this. Well, of course, that you come with this disparagement 11 years later, 12 years later, asking for what you already put as a priority in 2009, send a trick, Mrs. Díaz, send a trick. The disturbing reality is that there is a dismal balance in the 12-year transfer of the People's Party's Government's competences and that Mr. Rueda... -- point of view -- Mr. Rueda's 2009 campaign -- an infamous campaign, by the way, has to say -- said that the bipartisan had only got 14 transfers of minor matters. The tripartite 14 transfers and the People's Party's Union in 12 years zero transfers, zero patatore. That's the balance of the People's Party, of Mr. Fexóo, "the Terminator" of self-government, because it was going to be the prodigious decade of self-government and we see what the balance was, zero scrapper. [[Applause]] And, of course, you say, is that the Union has asked for transfers in front of the Government of Madrid. For if they were asked, the deal was of absolute contempt, when Zapatero ruled and when he ruled Mr. Rajoy's People's Party, because they were ruling for six years, what were they doing? Why didn't they ask him, why did they despise them, why did they lead them to political irrelevance, why didn't they grant him transfers? That's what you said: they were granted the transfers to Catalonia and Andalusia. Of course, of course, and not Galicia, but they've been ruling the People's Party on board and in Madrid six years in a row and they haven't been able to transfer. It's your responsibility, it's your balance. Not to mention... well, in that period of Mr. Rajoy's government there were up to 16 transfers to autonomous communities, 16. Galicia, zero. And what if they had time in those six years is to veto the transfer of AP-9 three times, putting it in the loops, putting poles on the wheels, with government reports and with parliamentary vetoes to be dealt with at the Congress of Deputies. That's what they did have time for. And what happened after 2018 that he stopped ruling the People's Party? Well, what happened then was that Mr. Faixóo took over the re-centralizing agenda of the People's Party of Mr. Marry. Mr. Casado said, he said, "Spain can't transfer -- wait, Mrs. Díaz -- Spain can't transfer more competences to autonomous communities. This can't stand, this can't stand, the nation needs to be strengthened." Then he said this married and then said Mr. Fexóo: "Spain is not to make transfers to autonomous communities, transfers are not priority." So what do you say here that you put it as a priority in 2009? That you weren't able to achieve it because you didn't ask for it, you didn't demand it, you didn't claim it; that then you said that the competencies weren't priorities and now you've agreed that they're priorities again. Don't take our hair, gentlemen of the People's Party, don't take our hair! [[Applause]] So that's your balance and you have to say here clearly, your balance in terms of competence, and your balance is incompetence, it's not competition, it's incompetence, it's finding incompetence, submission and political irrelevance. That's your balance. And, of course, now with these background, you're planning here with all the disparagement to say: we've discovered that we have to achieve the competition of the public maritime-terrestrial domain. He woke us up now after so long, that we had a lapse there, he woke us up now. And, of course, this is no coincidence, this has motivation. And the motivations aren't those 5,000 buildings. By the way, I must remind you of what the territorial ordination guidelines and the POL say about these issues, because you assume the guidelines, the POL, the landscape. They've also been 12 years to develop the landscape guidelines since the law was approved, and while what we've seen was degradation, the destruction of the landscape on the coast, on the inside, on the mountain, on the countryside, everywhere. Because you guys, you already said Castelao, "You should write down the rules on paper so that you can't wipe your ass with them," because you write them on tissue paper, your rules are written on tissue paper, and so we know how they use them. So what we have to tell you is that the problem is not that 5,000 buildings. By the way, if there are health centers, if there are educational centers, or if there is joint equipment in land-based land, they must leave, they must change their location, they must go somewhere else. But what are you saying here? What barbarity are you saying? What should they continue to occupy the public domain? If it's maritime-terrestrial public domain, we have to protect it, we have to defend it; we will have to keep some activities there, which must necessarily be by their relationship and link to the sea, which is what we defend in the debate about the Back Law, the Back Regulation, the Climate Change Act, but not those that can be moved. These public equipment, by the way, industrial facilities like the one behind this People's Party initiative, because this initiative has a name, it has four letters and it is E-N-C-E, National Cellulose Company, Ence. This is the real reason for this initiative, so now you've been reminded of this debate, so now you've been reminded of this competition, because you want to protect the interests of Ence, you want to perpetuate for 125 years a contaminant factory that is in an inappropriate location that you yourself said you couldn't be there. [[Applause]] Because I also remind you of what you have done, the board of assembly made an extraordinary council in Pontevedra in June 2009, and Mr. Fexóo publicly said there: "Ence can't stay in the stream of Pontevedra. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite, and they've done the opposite, they've made legal changes to perpetuate, so Ence would stay there, and we can't afford it. And you put yourself in the POL, so I say they made the POL in fabric paper, they put it in the POL that there would be an area of improved landscape. And what they did later was change the law, change the rules, the rotation doors included to unceasingly benefit an Ibex company. And you changed your position because you called them from Madrid and because you told them that you had to sing, that you had to change your position, that you had to get on the side of Ence, and that we can't afford it. And in the face of opportunism, in the face of the People's Party banners, the coherence of the BNG. We defend exactly the same in 2019 and in 2021, exactly the same with regard to competences, priorities and non-priority. And we always vote the same. That's why we're also going to vote on the same thing here, and we also propose an amendment to add more powers. We didn't just comply with the public domain of the maritime-terrestrial, as it was in that Parliamentary Agreement of the year 2008. We want more, we want ports of general interest, we want oceanographic research, we want nautical-fishing titrations, we want marine rescue, we want fisheries management. And finally, we want the Coastal Sorting Plan to be complied with, letter by letter, point by point, including the second additional layout...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u26	...which says what he says about the non-permanence of Ence in the Pontevedra creek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u27	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, I thought I heard you have been asking for the transfer of this competition since 2009, and I said I thought I'd listen to it because it surprises me a lot and maybe I was dreaming smart. In any case, if they did, it seems they did it in secret and, in any case, if they did, the success they had was null. I wish you much more success with a socialist government than you said they had with a Government of the People's Party, Mr. Rajoy's. [[Applause]] In any case, Mrs. Díaz, Galicia is the autonomous community with the most coastal surface in Spain, in addition to the fact that the economy associated with our coasts is of enormous importance. Just like the conservation of our coastline, which is not only a source of wealth, but part of our culture and identity. And the economy of the maritime food sector on our coasts, the shellfish, aquaculture, conserves etc., generates a very difficultly dislocationable productive activity which is labour intensive, to a large extent feminine, and in which we have an obvious competitive advantage, which gives it a strategic character that is reinforced by the use of the conservation of the environment, the priority of any public policy in the twenty-first century, particularly in the field of the European Union. As a matter of fact, tourism linked to our coasts is of great importance that can grow in the future, in addition to that our coasts are a public heritage that must be conserved for future generations, I hope that you will have at least a clear means, and subtracted from the possibility of private ownership, without losing sight of the special impact climate change can have on our backs. Galicia already has wide-ranging competences in coastal areas, such as the environment, coastal management, economic promotion, etc., etc. And in that sense, we understand that within the division of State powers it makes sense and legal that they are exercised by the autonomous community by the management of the public domain of the maritime-terrestrial, for functional reasons and proximity to the territory and its specificities, which is not an object to recognize that, contrary to what you have said, today who knows best the problems of our coast are the delegations of the back of the State. At this point in time, they have competent and highly experienced officials, and an exhaustive knowledge of what happens in the maritime-terrestrial public domain. And it must also be considered that the management of the protection servitude zone has belonged to the autonomous community since 1991, that is, 30 years ago. A competition that you already have and from which you have left to the point that there is no body of officers of the Board who exercises these powers, who are still in fact being monitored by the territorial administration of the State, that when they observe an infringement in the area of protection service they call upon the Board to exercise its powers. And we hope that with that background the management that the PP is asking for through this initiative does not become the typical you will do what you want, which seems to be the main and default rule applicable throughout our territory, both on the coast and on the inside, because that's its rule and its law, that everyone does what they want. On the other hand, we are surprised at the request of this competitive transfer, given that the governments under Mr Feijóo's presidency, contrary to what, if I did not dream, said here today Mrs Díaz, they have been completely abandoned on the competition demands for Galicia without a request for any new transfer that would entail the extension of Galician self-government, nor has the Joint Transfer Commission, yes, it seems to you that they have made all kinds of secret managements specifically for the transfer of this competition. In fact, it's so much more surprising this request for transfer when for two and a half years, exactly since it arrived in the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the Union is characterized by competitive escapism, and by the beginning "I invite you, you pay," all of which is determining in practice a species -- Mrs. Díaz I don't know if she's hiding, but I hope it's all going well. Perfect! -- all that, I say, is determining a practice that is a kind of new division of competences that would consist of what goes wrong in Galicia is State competence and what works well is the competence of Galician Union. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] And sometimes what goes wrong is also competition, it's the responsibility of the councils and the deputies, except, by the way, always that of Ourense. That is actually, beyond what our autonomy statute says, the division of powers to which Mr Feijóo holds. If there's any problem, escapism and denial. If there's any achievement, propaganda and bombardment. Even though in Galicia's achievements there is very little to see the action of the Government of Unity and much more the entrepreneurial and laborer character of a people and the vitality of companies like, by putting two marked examples, Index in the north and PSA-Citroën, now called Estellantis, in the south. [[Applause]] So accused is this new division of powers that it would have to consider reforming the Autonomy Statute in order to adapt it to this situation, because there are powers that the Union seems to know it has, even though they are clearly set out in the Autonomy Statute. For example, industrial policy and economic promotion, which the Union seems to consider not going with it, despite the fact that the Statute says with meridian clarity in its Article 30 that correspond exclusively to the Council of Galicia, and even though it has a flaming second vice-presidency, of Economics, Enterprise, Innovation and I don't know how many more things, and a whole structure of means, budgets, etc., that should serve those purposes. And, speaking of amending the Statute, you seem to forget your PP officials that before you transfer that competition or any other jurisdiction, you have to include it in the Statute, for which you will have to develop the corresponding parliamentary process here. So two weeks ago, we ourselves put forward a non-law proposal in which we proposed to urge the Council of Galicia to carry out the necessary actions to assume precisely the powers of management of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. Not to complain to the State, as you do, and they have not done before, by the way, but to carry out the necessary actions for that claim, to initiate the process, because, as I say, certain steps must be taken before they claim. And I also told you I wish you success in that, as you say, claim. I anticipate that we will not vote against this proposal, because we understand it reasonably in its philosophy and, beyond its literality, we will always be in favour of expanding Galician level of competence whenever that enlargement is reasonable, because I also have to say that advanced federal states do not practice the centrifugal technique that some political forces want to implement as a rule in Spain. And on the other hand, the competency-sharing technique in the most advanced federal states is to evaluate who can do better every thing, which in some cases will be the central administration and in others will be the administrations of the different territories. And on that line, the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño drew up a report detailing the competences that could be assumed by our autonomous community, which were many, dozens and tens, despite which, as I said, Mr. Feijóo's successive governments did not ask for even the first in the seven years that Mr. Rajoy was president. And now you have to ask for this. [[Applause]] Welcome be the request to the extent that it serves to improve, which in theory is possible, but for that we must put the resources and the means and the will, which, as we say, up until now in the matter of the back and the management of the coast did not make the People's Party of Galicia. And, with regard to article 18.4, which I had to go out inevitably, I have to repeat what I said a few weeks ago. The PSdEG will not support any legislative or any kind of measure that goes against the economy on our coast or against the value chain of the marine food industry sector, which has -- again -- a huge importance not only economically, but also socially and culturally. We are obviously in favour of protecting ourselves, defending ourselves and encouraging our coastal economy, preserving it, aquaculture, shellfishing and all the activity associated with these sectors; which, of course, does not make the Union, as a reflection of the progressive decline in our maritime sector. What we're not going to protect is demagogy and irresponsibility consistent in that, for political reasons spurish, it is unreported at our own expense and from the self-government itself, which should do exactly the opposite. It's a lie that article 18.4 will involve or suppose the closure of hundreds of businesses. Let you, by your responsibility, for democratic maturity, repeat that bona fide lie. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u29	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Orange, I'm not hiding. I missed you more than you scared me; none, I'm not scared for anything. [[Applause]] In any case, the issue that brings us here today, the autonomous state, Galicia, has developed its self-government in a substantial way with a wide range of competences and with a much higher legislative capacity than many nominally federal countries. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary weakness we see in the current Socialist Government has led, as with regard to financing, to open the debate on new transfers to autonomous communities, even some of the doubtful constitutionality. The Government of Greece, with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group, will not accept that Galicia is inferior to conditions for bilateral treatment arising from the dependence of the Government of Spain on commitments which have forces ruling in other autonomous communities. I'm not going to take a look here, because I have more interesting things to say. The People's Party and the Government of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to demand, of course, that they will continue to demand transfers that involve a greater provision of public services to the Greeks and the Greeks!, through this management of proximity and, of course, within the constitutional and statutory framework. I don't think we agree with that. But look, and I think here, both for Mr. Aranguena and Mr. Bará, I'm going to tell you that it was 12 years that we took, and that they said I don't know how many competitions, of course it was 12 years! What did the People's Party do? Keep our self-government. It was much more important for the Greek Government to manage matters of vital importance, such as the economic crisis in the early decades and this pandemic, than to negotiate the transfer of new competences by defending -- that's yes -- what we did is to defend what we had, maintain our self-government, not like other communities that had to be intervened. Mr Bará and Mr Aranguena, no, the situation has changed. [[Murmurs.]] And why has the situation now changed since we asked for the complaint of public domain management? From the intention of the Government, of the Government, of its Government, of the Socialist Government, to make harmful decisions for Galicia. And, Mr. Bará, don't laugh, because no one here is camouflaged, Mr. Bará, no one. Here the only ones who camouflage are you supporting a government that forgets Galicia, and of what they are partners, don't forget. [[Applause]] Thus, by the sense of responsibility and opportunity, it is necessary at this time to adapt this competition to the circumstances that we now have in Galicia and that some in Madrid do not seem to understand. And if we didn't do it before, why did we? I said, 'cause we kept our self-government, 'cause things were getting out of the way in a reasonable way. And why do we insist now? Because the Government of your party, Mr. Arangüena, is trying to change the temporary extension of concessions by cutting down time periods in an important way and making them indelibly amortization and investment. Yes, Mr. Aranguena. The Government of your party is trying to change the criteria for settlement of business structures or administrations without taking into account the characteristics of many activities that can only be on the shore of the sea. Because the Government of your party, Mr. Arangüena, not only tries to join -- yes, sir -- in business areas in back areas, but also in other administrations. In any case, in that proposal you have just registered, Mr. Aranguena, on February 25th, they speak and say, you just say so now, too, that it makes sense and legal that Galicia assumes the competences of what we are talking about. Of course, you may have a purpose that you only want to take the opportunity to open up another interested debate, such as that of Galicia's competition. Debates interested and sterile, because the German Government can demonstrate how since 2009 it has been fighting for the transfer of competences, but with meaning. Yes, and bet on those who can be better managed by our community. And I can add more to it, if you want to go to the fifth axis of the People's Party electoral program on self-government reinforcement, on page 161, we're talking about the impetus to the convening of joint transfer commissions. [[Murmurs.]] Mr Bará, as far as his amendment of addition is concerned, gives the impression that you take advantage of the occasion and make a general mix of transfers that we cannot support as a whole. And, look, it is not appropriate, for example, to accept the request for competences on ports of general interest based in Galicia; neither is it necessary to apply for competences in the field of professional fishing-nautical qualifications; we cannot accept the transfer of maritime rescue, since the important is not competition in itself, but rather how it is exercised. It is not appropriate to accept these powers, but we could support two others, but not as a toast to the sun, but because they have already been sued by the Greek Government since 2009, which is the case with the management of the fisheries sector -- the competition demanded and the state has not drawn up the corresponding royal transfer decree -- and the relative competition in oceanographic research, which has also been demanded since 2009. Moreover, there is even a non-law proposal adopted unanimously, asking for the transfer of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, so it should be requested in the contents of that proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure we've still found a meeting point, because we're talking about Galicia. The Socialist Party speaks of that logical sense, of that legal sense, of that necessity of the transfer of the management of the public maritime-terrestrial domain. The Galician Nationalist Block also hopes that they will pick up that proposal of those powers that we have seen -- I insist -- claiming, in any case, ladies, since 2009. In any case, and by the end, what I really want to refer to is the opposition groups saying that the German Government was not cross-armed, as you speak, in terms of competence. The Greek Government was not cross-armed, which was working on priorities, following opportunities and with a sense of responsibility, and that responsibility is Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We are now debating in a cumulative way two non-law proposals, one of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, initiative of D. Xose Luís Bará; and another of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, initiative of D. Pablo Arangüena Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the demand to the Government of the State for the appeal against the ruling of the Provincial Court in relation to the palace of Meirás to defend historical truth and public interest and to avoid any compensation to the Franco family The following is added to the previous one: Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Fr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández and Ms. Paloma Castro Rey, to exhaust all legal possibilities for the defence of the interest of the State, including, if technically possible and advisable, the appeal against Judgment 60/2021 of the Provincial Court of the Coruña, concerning the declaration favourable to the compensation of the expenses incurred in the immovable by the Franco family
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u32	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and also by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Pablo Arangéna Fernández, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to this table the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendment:The decisive part of the initiative must be replaced by the following text:"1o)The Parliament of Galicia recognises the dedication and effort of all persons, as well as of the public and private entities who, with their approach and impulse, have made possible a historic judicial process that allows the recovery of the Peace of Meirás, which was obtained fraudulently by the dictator Francisco Franco. Thus, to the councils of Sada and the Coruña, the Provincial Deputies of the Crown and the Council of Galicia; to the historians, persons and entities of all kinds who collaborated in the collective effort to recover this good for the public heritage and in general to all those who made this achievement possible. In particular, the work of the General Directorate for Historical Memory of the Government of Spain and the Government itself of Spain, which promoted and achieved the recovery of the peace through the demand submitted in July 2019.2o)The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to exhaust all legal possibilities for the defence of the general interest in the title of the Peace of Meirás, including, if technically feasible, the appeal against the Government of the State acting in the same sense.4o)The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to prevent or minimize any State payment to the Franco family.3o)The Parliament of Galicia urges the Union of Galicia to request the Government of the State acting in the same direction.4o)The Parliament of Galicia urges the Board of Galicia to promote or minimize any State's priority and principal use of the Peace of the United States without doubt to be restored to public use.]] [[(The People's People's Parliament Group of Galicia in Galicia through its Sp Sp Sp Group of Galicia and at the initiative of Mr Alberto Pazos Couñago, in the light of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the House's Rules of Procedure, submits before this Bureau the following amendment to this non-lawless proposal:Replacement amendment:The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following at the initiative of Mr Alberto, after the end of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the Rules of the Chamber, before this Bureau the following amendment to this non-lawless proposal:Replacement of Replacement:The text of the resolution should be replaced by the words:"The Galician Parliament of Galician Parliament urges the Council to the Council of Galicia to:1.- What the Government of the State which the Government of the United Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Galicia to which, pursuant pursuant pursuant pursuant pursuant pursuant to make itself, and in any wish in any event, in any event, in any event, in which, in which, in which the request, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, in a wish in which shall, shall, in which shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, in the request in the request in 11 wish request, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, shall, in the effective resources, shall, in which, in the case, shall, shall, shall, in the case, shall, in the case, in the effective resources, shall, shall, shall, in the case, shall, in the case, the case, the request, the request in 11 wish and shall, shall, shall, shall, the effective resources and shall, shall, the case, the request in 11 wish and shall, shall, shall, the case, shall, the effective, the effective, shall, shall, shall, the effective resources and shall, shall, shall, shall, the request, shall, the case, the request, the effective resources and shall, the effective resources and shall, the effective resources and shall, shall, in the]] The Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Bará, begins by formulating its non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u33	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to begin my intervention by reading two recent headlines. The first is February 17, and says: "The State waives Meirás' sentence and agrees to compensate the Francos as possessors of good faith. The Government sees the sentence as positive, because it confirms that the peace is public and memorialist entities, the Council of Sada and BNG, urge to resort to a decision that whitewashs franchise." February 17th, 20 days ago. And on yesterday, another headline: "The Government will appeal the judgement on the palace of Meirás." We can say it's 20 days that have changed history, it could also be the headline of what happened in these three weeks. And the announcement we saw yesterday, we can say it's a democratic victory for the people of Greece. It is an example of the importance of social mobilization and political pressure, which were able to bend the arms of the Union and the Central Government, which initially did not intend to appeal. And we want to say from the BNG that we are glad of this rectification, it is a positive fact, but we also want to make it clear who is merit, the merit of this correction is from the Greek people, it is from the people who have mobilized themselves, it is from the memorialist collectives, it is from the Galaga for Memory Initiative, and it is, putting the names of two people, Carlos Babí and Manuel Pérez Lorenzo, who wrote a manifesto literally entitled "Back paying for the stolen, an unacceptable judgment for a democratic state", which collected more than 3,000 support, and it was key, it was decisive to twist and bend the arm to the central government and to the People's Party's Union. [[Applause]] And that's why we want from here, from this rostrum, once again to show the gratitude and gratitude to Carlos Babío and Manuel Pérez Lorenzo for his ingenious work that has been and remains fundamental to winning this cause, to win this battle. [[Applause]] And also, once again, I express my support to Carlos Babío, who has recently sat in the courthouse of the defendants, for a complaint by the civil and criminal channels of the Franco family, who accuses him of a crime of insult and slander. All of us are Carlos Babío, and all of us are also the 19th of Meirás, and the eight of the Cornide House, who were also denounced by the Franco family, and for these 19 people of Meirás they call for more than 300 years of imprisonment. The world backwards! The people who mobilize and struggle to recover what was stolen from the defendants' bank, and the thieves, who took advantage of the theft and the policeman who go away from the rosettes and still want to pay them compensation for it. The world backwards! We can't afford it, we're going to fight to the end to stop it. And, look, we should all and all of us should learn lessons from what happened these days, these weeks, and the Junta and the Central Government should learn a fundamental lesson: that here is not about recovering a palace, it's not about getting a building back, it's about recovering the collective dignity of the Greek people. That's what it's all about, because Meirás's palace is not a building, Meirás' palace is a symbol. This is important to understand, it's a symbol and the symbols convey ideas, they transmit values, they transmit feelings, they transmit emotions, they transmit pain and suffering as well, because it was a place of repression of dictatorship, franchise, terror, extortion, blackmail, and there are many people with names and names who suffered that blackmail. And we have to think first and foremost about restoring and restoring the memory and honor of all those people. And, as a symbol, it is also a symbol of impunity, of impunity permitted and permitted by a transition that has nothing of a model and that allowed precisely this island of impunity, these 10 hectares of impunity that have been for almost 45 years the palace of Meiraes. By the way, such a modely transition, so modely, that he has given -- and they remain in force -- noble titles to the Franco family, such as the lordship of Meiraes and the dukedom of Franco. They are still in force and passed by state governments, one government and another sign that they were unable to put down these titles granted by King Juan Carlos after the death of the dictator. A real shame, an indecency we can't afford either. Look, the BNG registered this initiative on February 18th, and did it for two reasons: the first and the main, because we do not agree with the judgment, and because we do not agree that this is a technical debate and a legal debate, it is a fundamentally ideological and political debate, at least what needs to be done here in this Parliament; elsewhere there are other debates, but in this Parliament it is an ideological debate, principles and ethical debate as well. That is why we are presenting this initiative for this Parliament to have a clear statement against that judgment. But also because we did not agree, and we do not agree, with the position that the Government of the State has defended and also with the Board not to appeal that judgment, we certainly seemed indefensible. And we are ready at this moment, here in this plenary, to come back to an agreement, and if they want to call it consensus, but let us be clear that this consensus is not a rainy consensus of the sky, it is a consensus that is the result of conflict and confrontation once again, because that is how societies move forward; otherwise, we would possibly be in the Middle Ages. And that's why we bring here with all generosity a compromise proposal and agree that it is spoken to the other groups and that it says: "The Parliament agrees as a resolution to support and demand that the General Administration of the State, as well as the Board of Galicia, put the appropriate remedies against the ruling of the Provincial Court of the Crown on the condition and liquidation possession of good faith, as well as, in their case, the character as parties to the proceedings in defence of the remaining operative part of the judgment. All this in accordance with the Parliament Agreement of 11 July 2018 on the recovery of the peace of Meirás for the public heritage and that it does not entail a new cost for the Greek people, preventing the political heirs from getting any economic benefit from it." This is the proposal for an agreement that would be a clear message out of this house, out of this Parliament, to work with determination and unity to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. Because we also want to make it clear that the people who have fought, that the people who have mobilized, that the people who have researched, who have been doing this for more than two decades, have not done it to get here and die on the shore, on the beach, have done it to make sure that the battle is won, to regain the peace and defeat impunity and to defeat frankness, to do so and we will not rest until we achieve it. And we also present this initiative, because we don't agree with the story and the consequences of that statement that is made in the sentence, because we say it and we keep it here again, it has an unbearable Franco-Francist tufo, so of course. And we can criticise and we must criticise the judgment, especially when there are misconceptions, ideological judgments, reactionary judgments. And I'm going to put just one example of what this means: to justify that the peace was easy for Francisco Franco's person and not for the head of state, the magistrates put in writing in the sentence the following: "The appeal of the caudillo applied to him and no one else, and he presented himself as a messenger of God. Divine messenger cannot be the State or the General Administration of the State, he is a natural person." This is put by the provincial court magistrates to justify that the palace was made easy for a physical person rather than for the institution of the Head of State. So, we can't admit it, this has an unbearable franchise tufo and I think we're soft and moderate with the qualification. We cannot accept this account because it has historical consequences for the historical vision of what happened, but above all it has legal consequences. Especially when accompanying this goes the fact that the bad faith of the dictator and his offspring is not determined; when, on the one hand, one recognizes that he was an all-powerful being, but then said, well, that he really passed by because they were doing and undoing in his name, but he does not know whether he was a knowing of all that. When there are also proven historical facts, evidenced in the sentence itself, which say that the palace was the result of an appropriation with extortion, blackmail, terror, abuse of all kinds, use of public resources. That property has also expanded with public resources, which has been repeatedly used throughout this time as the residence of the head of state. And after that it's said that the possession of bad faith is not clear, when it's also proven that there was a manipulation, a forgery, a simulated contract to appear a purchase in the year 41. And after all this, it's been said that there was no bad faith, with the consequences of this. So, at this point, we believe that the postures are clear, that they were always clear. We want to recognize and appreciate what this rectification means, which is a step forward, but there's still a lot to do. And that's why we want to claim here again the importance of political pressure, institutional pressure, social pressure, of the work that the Sada Town Hall has also done by announcing its resource, the Deputy of the Crown, the Council of the Crown, the Joint Prodevolution -- which has also had a clear positioning -- the work of the Gallaga Initiative for the Memory of the Greek Memoristic Movement -- ten, chapeau! --. Thanks to them we are here, we are in the opportunity to present this resource, to definitely win this battle. This battle we have to win -- and finish -- because we are, or we must be, on the side of ethics; and because we also have the strength, the strength, the determination of a people. We also have all the strength and strength behind the victims' memory. We have behind us the reason, the conviction and determination to reach the end and to win this battle, which is to definitely defeat impunity, to definitely defeat frankism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u34	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Orange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to apologize to Mrs. Díaz because I had to get out before her intervention was exhausted. He's not here, but I apologize to him. And, Mr Bará, it's not true that you twisted your arm to the Government -- as you said -- on the subject of Meirás resource, it's not true, it's not true! And it's not even true that the Government issued a press release saying that it would not resort, there was no such press release; what was journalistic information about the deliberations taking place in the state lawyer. So it's not true, you're selling a fake story. [[Applause]] What is true is that the State has analysed the legal possibilities of an extremely difficult resource. Point. And it was the political will of a progressive Government that will allow the recovery of the palace and it was the Government who presented the demand to recover the palace. Not because of any pressure, but because, as the Judgment itself acknowledges, in 1978 the PSOE was already the first political party to ask for the recovery of the palace of Meirás. [[Applause]] And it's a historical judgment -- I've already said it on one occasion -- that will allow the recovery of a good that had been fraudulently obtained by the dictator taking advantage of his position as the state's domain. And it was -- reiterate -- thanks to the political will of a progressive government and the work of state lawyer, that in early 2019 a document was obtained, that had remained hidden in the archive of Notary Protocols of the Crown, which dismantled the fraud devised by the dictator and allowed the submission of the demand by that progressive Government and the State Counsel. Not by demagogy or populism, but by the political will of a progressive government; not by the banners, by the political will of a progressive government. [[Applause]] And through that first sentence by the Franco family, the Provincial Court of the Coruña confirmed that the property belongs to the State, giving it, therefore, the main reason, that it was the property. If it first changes the judgment to establish the obligation to compensate for the expenses incurred by the Franco family since the death of the dictator, for considering, in summary, that they remained in the possession of the palace without bad faith, which would oblige them to compensate for the useful expenses, in addition to considering that even if they remained in the possession of the peace competing with bad faith they would also have to compensate them for the necessary expenses, according to Article 453 of the Civil Code, which says that the necessary expenses are paid to all owners; that is, to every owner, whether good or bad faith, and it is called Franco, Bakunin or Pol Pot. And, by the way, when the BNG in the explanatory statement of his initiative reproaches the Provincial Audience who does not establish Franco's bad faith, it completely confuses the object of the process, because the defendants are Franco's heirs, not Franco's, and therefore the judgment does not have to be pronounced on Franco's good or bad faith, even though the Provincial Audience makes perfectly clear to those who read the judgment their negative opinion of the dictator and dictatorship. But, in the case of us, good or bad faith, it doesn't mean that the Francos were either good or bad people, or that Franco was a good or bad person, but that good or bad legal faith is associated with the fact that Franco's heirs knew that Franco had obtained good in a fraudulent way, a concept of bad or good faith that is not ethical, moral, or political, but legal. And the Provincial Court of the Coruña estimates that there was no bad faith because it understands that it cannot be considered proven that the Francos knew of the handlings that Grandfather did to put that good in his name; that is, the simulation of the legal business that the dictator's advisors did. This is the most controversial part, that the heirs knew the simulations that the dictator had made or that they simply didn't know them. I have my opinion as a lawyer, but that's not the case here, nor will I manifest it. What needs to be made clear is that even if the Francos were possessors of bad faith, the law states that they have to pay the necessary expenses to the owners of bad faith, and that's hard to avoid. And without going into debate the legal arguments of such a new and complex process, which does not correspond to a political party, nor does it belong to the parliamentary function, but we have demanded and asked clearly for for all the legal possibilities to defend the public interest in this matter for a long time now, which, in addition to the state itself, which announced yesterday that it will do so, can and should make the Council of Galicia person in the process. And that's what we're asking for in our proposal, even though it's a very difficult resource -- as I say -- mainly because the remedy of marriage -- which is the usual way in our law to resort to the judgments of the provincial hearings -- is not admitted to purely evidential matters, as is the case with the good or bad faith of Franco's heirs. In any case, I have to say it also roundly, the assertion that the Provincial Court ruling has a franchiseist tuft or that whitening franchiseism is a nonsense and an expression of the purest and absolute demagogy, or both. And if your BNG lords bothered to read the sentence, they would see that he talks critically, clearly critical about such things as "the state was in the service of Franco" -- literally --. And he speaks of a cohort who wanted to surrender to Franco and paraded by Meirades, and speaks of the spending of public funds made in the palace, and speaks of the Frankish regime as a force that has the ability to impose their decisions violently. That is to say, it makes clear critical and unfavorable considerations about the franchisor regime, for setting only a few examples of considerations, that, despite the non-ideological character of a sentence -- which does not concern Frankism or Franco, but the property of an immovable concrete -- it makes perfectly clear the opposite view of the court of the franchisor regime and of what happened in the court, which is not an object for that judgment to be taken, as we have asked. And if in spite of that, someone says the sentence whitewashs franchise -- as Mrs. Ana Pontón did -- she's doing demagogy, or she hasn't read the sentence or both at once. And if anyone criticising that sentence says Galicia won't pay twice for Meiras' palace, that means he doesn't understand anything. Because that sentence does not say at all that the State is going to pay for the property of Meirás or that it has to pay for the property of Meirás; what it says is that it has to pay to the heirs of Franco the expenses made in the court since 1975, and that is precisely what we ask it to do, not because the remedy is technically recommended, but because it is almost ethical or moral, because this is not a judicial matter whatsoever for the State, but a particularly sensitive matter from a democratic point of view. But democracy, like the democratic memory, has a lot of pedagogy and that's why instead of making demagogy, it has to be made clear that the judicial process for the recovery of Meiraes' palace is being together a real success that absolutely no one could predict two years ago. I mean, two years ago, when the state lawyer's lawsuit had not yet been filed, absolutely none of those present would wager their money that the property of the palace would be recovered without having to compensate the value of the palace for the Francs. And today we have two judgments that say the Francos are not owners, that the owner is the State, and the only thing being discussed is the spending made in the palace since 1975, which, if necessary, they would have to be believed, and demonstrated and documented one by one, and that success is due to commitment and strong political will -- I will not tire of repeating it -- a progressive government, not demagogy or banners or populism. And if we were to stay in the banners or in the demagogic statements, there would be no recovery from the palace of Meirades. And if it were for Mr. Feijóo, there wouldn't be a recovery from the palace of Meirades, and the Francos would remain there comfortably installed telling his grandfather's stories in the summer. Finally, we continue to claim that many things can be done in the palace of Meirás, but always giving priority to uses related to the historical democratic memory. And that's why we ask in our proposal not only to resort, but also to prioritize the uses associated with the claim, to defend the study of the historical democratic memory. We also call for recognition of all people, collectives, entities, civil society and administrations who have put their big area in order to achieve this collective success. We call for recognition and recognition because it is of justice and common sense. And, I repeat, and I say it clearly, we must always prioritize and in any case the uses related to the historical democratic memory. We have absolutely nothing against the study and the claim of Emilia Pardo Bazán, who was a great writer, a very remarkable corrupt and Galician woman, who, by the way, already has a museum, which is where the writer's home was in Tabernas Street, 11, of the Coruña. And I recommend to your lords of the People's Party, who have recently discovered an unusual fervor for Emilia's wife, that they pass by and know that museum house. But I say it with the greatest clarity: you use Emilia Pardo Bazán's alibi to try to lower the historical democratic memory. They try to dilute the historical democratic memory using Emilia Pardo Bazán, and the Socialist Party of Galicia will not pass through. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u36	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must start with the obvious, since we are debating. The State announced yesterday that it will file an appeal against the judgement relating to the palace of Meirás -- it seems to me to be a good news -- and the Galician Union has already, through its president, warned for several days that, if this was done, the Union, as it could not be otherwise, would be next to the state by presenting that appeal and defending the agreements taken in this Parliament. So I think that with regard to the material content that motivated these two initiatives, we should all agree, we should congratulate ourselves and, finally, we should understand very little certain expressions and a certain attempt to seek confrontation during the interventions that preceded me. I want to make something clear. The ruling on the claim of the public title of the palace of Meirás is an undeniable success. It is an undeniable success, first of all, of all the public institutions that participated in the proceedings; of the Government of the State, Mr Aranguena, too. But neither more nor less, because there were many institutions that have made great efforts for a long time, even before this government arrived, to bring about such a recovery. I think it's an undeniable success of the people and associations who for years have jumped to make this historical fact come true. It seems to me that Mr. Arunguena spoke an expression that I think was unfortunate, I don't think he meant what he said, I mean it, right? But that's to say that you couldn't get through the billboards... I think you've done a lot more than put on the billboards. And if you were referring to BNG as well, I think we have to be fair and I think that BNG has also done a lot more than put itself behind a sign. I believe that we must be fair with these issues and undoubtedly this is an undeniable success of the rule of law, which has shown that it is possible to reverse the injustices of the past through the legality born of the democratic transition process. Therefore, Mr Bará, at all this judgment is conditional or questions the morality of the Spanish democratic transition; far beyond that, it puts value and is an explicit recognition of the regime of freedoms that we have given ourselves in the Constitution. So I think that's something that we should all be happy about, because the reality is that we all knew the difficulty of the process when it started, and I think it's kind of like to see how the success of the company that we're developing is questioned, and I think this happened to all of us lawyers along a procedure, there are some initial expectations, then it seems that during the procedure they improve and then somebody when there's a final judgment says: no, it's not exactly... I think it's important to remember what we wanted when we started this process. Text adopted in the Galician Parliament: "The Galician Parliament, recognizing the important work carried out for years by historians and historians, historical memory associations, the Union for the Return of Peace of Meirás, institutions such as the Deputation of Coruña and the Council of Sada, among others, urges the Union of Galicia to: First. To which the report of the commission of experts appointed by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, urgently forwarding the resolution of the Galician Parliament on the possibility of incorporating the property of Torres de Meirás with all its documentary attachments to the General Administration of the State with the request that the legal actions referred to in the report be carried out in its final conclusion. Second. Incorporating, as soon as such legal action is exercised, into the civil process as an adhesive adjuvant. And third. Parliament expresses its desire that the recovery of the Meirás palace for the public heritage will not entail a new cost for the people of Galicia." The fact is, almost three years later, the State did the legal actions we claimed. The Board has joined the process as an adhesive adjuvant and we have not one, but two judgments that explicitly recognize the public ownership of the Towers of Meirás. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be aware of the historic moment. One of the power symbols of a dictator is about to become the heritage of the people he has plundered. Therefore, the democratic will of that people is prevailing over the desires imposed by the dictator himself. And if these judgments are confirmed, the reality is that the Francos will have one less palace and the Greek people will have one more palace. And that's an unquestionable reality, ladies and gentlemen. So from there we can introduce nuances, of course yes, but allow me what value these nuances you intend to introduce. BNG sets us up a story that is inescapable to us, in which the democratic quality of judicial decisions does not depend on whether they conform to the laws, but on whether they conform to the wishes of the BNG. I would like to make it clear that the judgments of the Spanish courts are fully democratic, because they are dictated by legitimate courts, according to legitimate laws passed by one of the world's top-quality democracies. And this is a deep conviction that I have and that in my group's name I wanted to express here today. Discretion of justice, Mr Bará, is legitimate, criminalizes it, not criminalizes it. And I think we should all understand that the historical account doesn't have to correspond to the judicial account, because one is based on the application of legal precepts and another on the investigation of historical facts. All they have in common is that they must both try to be as objective as possible. But, agreeing with the statement and request you made here today that we focus on the ethical debate, which is what it is for a parliament -- and I think it is good -- let's grant that the legal debate is what constrains the action of justice and the judges. And you can't mix one thing with another. Because history has the right to judge Franco with utmost severity, but justice has the obligation to treat its heirs with the same guarantees as any citizen. And that's the greatness of democracy. A few days ago, and because of this initiative that we were going to discuss, we also received here representatives of the Historical Memory, and I really liked to hear Mr. Babío because we agreed to do so. He said: The greatness of democracy is that the most disgusting criminal we have to deal with it equally and with all democratic guarantees. And I fully agree with that idea which Mr. Baby expressed and which is consistent with what we have maintained as well. So I also clarify that we were already advancing the position of this group and of the Galician Union at that meeting, that it was to co-adjugate with the state if the resource was presented. You will therefore understand, Mr Bará, that speaking here of bending his arm to the Galician Union is quite absurd when we have anticipated that we would do exactly what we are doing. In any case, I believe that we should flee from maximalist approaches incompatible with the manifesto itself by the BNG in this headquarters and that, if we are not killed, they would even force us to renounce Meirás being a public good. That's not sensible. And I say it because they get confused or try to confuse what is said in a parliament with what is to be said in the trial. We are not here to decide what a judge will do and how he will determine a judicial process, if the political groups that we are in this House believe that the Franco family must be compensated. You have to distinguish the two debates, the phrase isn't mine. The sentence is that of Mrs Ana Pontón, delivered in the debate on 11 July 2018 in this House itself. I suppose you will agree with this differentiation that Mrs. Pontón herself established. In any case -- this too I have to tone Mr. Arangüena -- if you yourself recognize, Mr. Arangüena, that bad faith in any case indicates that you have to make minimum payments that have to believe, indeed, the Franco family, because we do not make major statements saying: not a euro, not a euro. But it is known that something has to be done. Why? because it is stipulated by law. We don't wake up false expectations, we don't feed a frustration that I don't think would be positive for anyone. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the price to pay for liquidating the possession of that palace is not a price to be paid to the Francos, it is a price to be paid for living in a rule of law, it is the price of democracy that establishes that all citizens are equal. We'd like, and so we say, that the Francos don't get enrichment from this process, and that's guaranteed. Because, let's make it clear, the liquidation of a possessing state in no way implies a enrichment of the owner, in no case, but a compensation for expenses made that he has to believe. And we'd like, like all of us, to be the least possible. But that will probably be decided on in this appeal and on the subsequent execution of the sentence. We also share with BNG the need to act as right, in that we agree. And also to evaluate any possibility of recourse to minimize possible compensation for the recovery of Meirás. Unfortunately -- and I'm telling you the truth -- this PSdeg unfortunately seems obsessed with avoiding any agreement and, whenever we're willing to accept any of your proposals, you change them, in most cases, by changing your own ideas. Look, I, at last, think there's a story here that explains very well what's going on in this House. Look, you demand in your proposal that the Board do the same thing as two weeks ago they made sure it was almost impossible for the state. "The State will not resort to the judgement and agree to pay the Francos as possessors of good faith." You used to say, journalistic information. Yes, of all the papers. No, of course, it was invented and there was a Jewish-periodistic conspiracy, right? to give a matching headline that probably had no connection with any consultation either to the ministry or to the state lawyer. Of course I do. See, February 19, Gonzalo Caballero: "Indemnify the Francos for the use of Meirás would upset me, but in a rule of law it is up to me to abide by the sentences or to resort to them. If there is no solvent to appeal, we will have to look for an execution of the judgement which ensures that the Francos cannot make a box." But, well, there's always Mr. Aranguena to explain technically what Mr. Caballero means. To say that the ruling of the Provincial Court of the Coruña on Meirás has a Frankish tuft is a nonsense which implies not having the ability to understand it or, more likely, not to bother reading it. No one likes to pay the Francos, but attending this sentence is technically very difficult. Adds, adds, "The remedy of marriage is not admitted to evidential matters, such as good or bad faith, but legal, so it would not be possible in this case." Another type of resource doesn't happen to me, but just like those of the Frankist tuft -- which I think was saying for you -- they have some idea backed by renowned jurists. Article 453 of the Civil Code states that the costs necessary -- the facts to keep the property -- must always be compensated, there is good faith or bad faith. Besides, good faith is assumed. The good faith that the Civil Code speaks of is a legal concept, not political or moral. Yes, yes, of course it is. When they told you about Ferraz that they've seen very difficult to go through, you present an initiative saying, "It's very difficult to go through, but yet I plant it." That's right. But then you get other calls from Ferraz. They then put forward an initiative, which was the original one, urging the Council of Galicia, first the Council of Galicia to ask the Government of the State to exhaust the legal possibilities of being technically possible and advisable. That the Council of Galicia asks the Government of the State. You're self-imposed with another initiative that they had registered later on. I suppose, too, after receiving another call from Ferraz that told him that maybe he could. He urged the Galician Council to exhaust all legal possibilities for the defence of the general interest in the title of the palace of Meiras, if it was technically possible and advisable, he said that initiative that you had registered, and that was the one they presented as an amendment, with a nuance: with the removal of a single word. They urge the Galician Union to exhaust all legal possibilities of being technically viable. It doesn't matter whether it's advisable, if it isn't. Why? Because, of course, what they demanded from the state with all prudence, when it comes to demanding it from the Union, they do so with all boldness and disregarding any consideration. And, of course, in the end the headline appears. As I have said, for the democratic memory of the Francos it is not a euro for Meirás, even though Mr Arunguena has explained to us today that some euro does belong to him. Anyway, I'm very sorry -- I really say -- this exercise of parliamentary trilerism by replacing one proposal with another later, distorting the debate. What was the novelty that came about to make these self-amendments? Because it's difficult to explain. We all know what a self-amendment is, we don't know what this is for. In any case, it has only two uses: the first, as a bad example of parliamentaryism, that's what we don't have to do in a parliament; and the second, so that we often know what political thought is, the political convictions of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, which coincide exactly with the last call you've received from Ferraz, no less or less. That is the current political thought of the Socialist Party of Galicia. It's a sad conclusion, I have to tell you. In any case, Junta has already stated that, as it could not be otherwise, it will be supporting the State in that resource and, in addition, add, because it was so in our amendment, it will be against any recourse which the Francos present and which doubts the public ownership of Meirás, who are the ones who can. No, because you're cheating, a very poor trap legally, Mr. Orange. Yes, because you know that the Union cannot take the initiative in an appeal against the liquidation of the possessing state, because it has no active legitimacy, among other things because the Union would never have to pay or liquidate that possessing state. It's up to the state, which is therefore the legitimate actively. And I believe that you, who, according to my listening to you, have been a mouse to your head of rows, have actively collaborated in the writing, along with Mrs. Castro, in this appeal with the General Secretariat of the State -- it's worth it! - I should know at least that. Literally statements from your boss half an hour ago. By the way, very elegant of him to make statements on an initiative that we must debate in this very Parliament half an hour later. Another great example of your respect for Parliament. In any case, and clearly, we supported the original initiative, we amended it by adding the commitments, realistic commitments of the Galician Union, and, in any case, we are also in favour of that transaction that Mr Bará announced to us, which, of course, we are in favour, first, because it perfectly summarizes the amendments that we presented and, second, Mr Bará, because we also modestly collaborate in drafting it. To God what is God's, right? We're all going to be a little fair, because I also think I added something to that statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u39	We're not going into discussion, of course, because it doesn't make much sense about the uses of Meiras, because it's not the time, because we're not in it, and because, in any case, someone would have to clarify something about what the state is going to do about Meiras. I don't know, we're still waiting for the PSdeg to tell us if they're gonna give us the Meirás palace or not, because for now they haven't said anything. In any case, what are we going to do with the palace once the State Administration recovers its possession? Well, we'll see. I mean, I think the fundamental thing is not to put forward what might be dividing elements, rather to focus on the fundamental...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u40	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u41	...which is the recovery of possession, because there are different ideas about it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u42	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u43	... -- finished already, president -- "may be a historical memory center, may be dedicated to the memory of Pardo Bazán, may be dedicated to a broader memory of the writers of the Navy," Xaquín Fernández Leiceaga, July 11, 2018. I hope at least you have a little respect for who was, by the way, an excellent socialist spokesman in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u44	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. We'll take this quietly. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Now it's the author group of the non-law proposition, in this case Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u45	Finally, I understand the discomfort that some feel in this debate, but each one is the owner of his silences and also of his words, his publications, his tweets, his inconsistencies, his corrections, his changes in a few days, in a few hours. Therefore, let every stick bear his candle. And, of course, what we cannot admit is that they come here to take us for fools, because the Central Government since February 18-19 has repeatedly issued press releases and agency releases saying that the State, the Central Government, would not resort, and quote literally sources of the Moncloa, and that we know there was no public rectification; on the contrary, there was a confirmation giving the arguments for which it would not be resorted, saying that it was a democratic victory, that it was a great triumph of democracy, that it was a great achievement to get the main part, that it was the return of the court, and assuming what to pay. That's how you can't come here to lie, to change the story, and to try to distort what happened, that's how it happened. No public correction was made. Just like Junta, the Junta, Mr. Culture Advisor, here here also made that positive assessment, they said they were going after the central government, the hand, the crochet, also now in the rectification, I suppose. And the director, the Secretary General of Culture, came here saying that it was a technical debate, that it was technical issues, that there was no need to resort, that they would adhere to the position of the central government, that was the reality. And now they've rectified and they're all right. And what you can't do either, Mr. Aranguena, is to falsify the story. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party was not the first that in 1978 claimed the palace, it was the Spanish Historical Socialist Party, there is an important difference, they are not the same party, it was not the Socialist Party, they do not continue to repeat that, because it is a falsehood, it is a falsehood. It wasn't the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which has ruled for nearly 20 years, has been perpetuating impunity and allowing the Francos to continue to stop that palace, it has been so; it is that you have been ruling, 82-96 and not... If they had that position in 78, why then were they not consistent and they didn't fight to get the palace back? And, look, I admit to them the ignorance of what happened. This deputy recently published two months ago, a notebook and in addition to something I've lived since 2005, at least in the Government of Unity, and if they want, I have no problem and give them a copy. By the way, now we have to make a corrected and expanded version, very expanded because in these two months so many things have already happened and a new version has to be published. And what happened was what happened. You cannot come here to despise, to insult, to despise the immense work of the people who have raised banners, who have raised proclamations, who have made demonstrations, who have made manifests, because this was absolutely central and fundamental to get here. And then there was in the final part who wanted to put on the medal, who wanted to put the branch on it. But the credit was for who worked all those years. The great merit was for those 10-12 people who manifested themselves alone in front of Meirades when no one believed in that cause. And also those who fought for BIC's statement, with all the consequences that it had. All those merits must be acknowledged. And in 2017 we were in a situation where not everyone had clear this struggle, and it was because of mobilization, it was due to pressure all over the world, but especially in Galicia of the people who move here, and above all the huge amount of research work that two people did altruistically because they didn't charge a dog for it. And with all that they also helped to arm the demand, they didn't charge a dog, generously and altruisticly. Thanks to those people, especially thanks to those people, we got here, because they put the work in the tray to the institutions to make the claim. So, especially with regard to those who have worked so much, that's fundamental, you can't use aggression, criticism of what others say to leave that place and despise the work of so many people. And, look, the judgment has a very clear ideological issue, a very clear reactionary issue, and I assure you that I read it and that I read it and that it is clear, and in addition to the judgments you can criticize, you can disagree with them, you can make a criticism for ideological reasons, for moral reasons, for ethical reasons, and the juridicals we leave them for the jurists. But we can make that criticism; look, up to this point you can also make the legal criticism that can be appealed, because of the disagreement with what the sentence says. But we cannot admit the historical account that is in that judgment, because that was later supposed to tell that account, and we cannot assume it. And what we cannot assume is that that judgment does not reach the point of interpreting this Parliament's will when it says that, when this Parliament said that it was necessary to recover the palace without having any cost to the Greek people, we were meant to say, the Parliament, they interpret the judges we were meaning to say that we didn't want compensation, that we didn't want a purchase, that we didn't want an expropriation. But we weren't talking about ownership liquidation. To this point comes the sentence, how can we admit that? How can we admit that they interpret the will of this Parliament, which made it clear that our will was not to pay the Franco for that policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u46	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u47	...for that theft? And it is also necessary to assume the responsibilities of each person: what the report of the Committee of Experts put forward, and also what it did after the state lawyer following that report, was a fundamental basis for the judges, the magistrates to give the reason to one of the resources presented by the Franco family and to establish good faith and property liquidation, that was what he put against, for example, the criterion of the Sada Council, which presented a particular vote, and also in the debate it became clear here, of 11 July, it became clear that we did not agree with that interpretation, that there was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u48	Finish, please, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u49	...that we should not put that in the report of the Committee of Experts. It was a big mistake, as it was a great mistake that the State Counsel in its initial demand recognized good faith possession and the need for liquidation. Then it changed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u50	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u51	...in the middle of the game, but it was a big mistake. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u52	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u53	...you have to learn the lesson from everything that happened. Come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u54	Thank you, Mr Bará. Your time is up. Please! Please! [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Please! Please, Mr. Bará, it's over now! Thank you. [[Applause]] Look at the wig, please. A little generous... but look at the clock. Anyway, I know I like to talk, but a little please! in these things, I say. I don't cut anyone's debate, because the debates are all interesting, but please! I don't... [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, I don't want you to have the slightest doubt about our recognition and about all those who have collaborated and put their share of sand for the success of this process, including, by the way, Mr. Carlos Babío, that the other day was gathered with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and recognized that he has worked hand in hand with the Secretary of Historical Memory since the zero minute, and that the tune with the Secretary of Historical Memory is total and absolute on his side. There is no doubt about our recognition, which, by the way, we have explained in our proposal; recognition to everyone, also to the progressive government of the state, which has led the recovery of the palace of Meirás. He said the People's Party representative that we have to be fair. And I agree with the necessity of being fair, but each one comes from where he comes from and has the past he has and the trajectory he has; and, while many socialists were shot, or retaliations in various ways during frankism, the founder of his party actively enlisted in that regime and even there are photos of him with phalanxistic uniforms and his fist on high by making the fascist greeting, as this, here, in case he wants to see it. This picture is a picture that is not falsified, by the way, it's a historical photo, it's photography and it's history. [[Applause]] And you don't like our self-amendments, well, well, what we don't like are the envelopes that Mr. Bárcenas fruitfully shares between the People's Party's offices, that's what we don't like. [[Applause]] The historical character and legal complexity of the judicial process about Meirás cannot unfortunately be found in the 140 characters of a tweet or in the 30 seconds of a cut-off. We'd all be paid even a hundred euros to the Franco, that's what Gonzalo Caballero said, not anything else. And in that sense, even if the appeal is very difficult, that it is, even if it is not admitted by the Supreme Court, that it may not be admitted or admitted, the socialists consider that we must try; that is what we consider and what we support and what we defend. A decision to appeal, which would be technical in normal conditions, here is almost an ethical issue, of democratic political ethics and, therefore, one must go beyond technical issues and, as I say, exhaust the legal possibilities and appeal both by the State, which has submitted the demand and has already announced that it will appeal, as by the Board, that it can resort to itself, and the BNG, Mr Bará, in its initiative, makes reflections on the judgment that are manifestly incorrect. For example, when they say that in the justification of the judgment there are worrying references to historical facts and to the account of the policeman of the palace of Meirais that are not admissible from a democratic point of view, as he defended a moment ago. It's not true, and it doesn't tell us what they are, in fact, and when I tell them the argument to draw it out of context, but it doesn't tell the Provincial Audience what you say it says. There's no whitewashing of frankism or gait rags, nothing that looks like that, or by the way. And by the way, read Mr. Carlos Amoedo's article, which says exactly what I say, I think he was a militant of his party, right? And when it says it is paradoxical that the sentence does not establish the bad faith possessory in the case of Francisco Franco and Carmen Polo, for I have to reiterate to you that you are wrong because it is not a political sentence, it is a legal sentence, and all the considerations it makes with regard to the Franco regime, the Franco itself and the possession situation, and the distortion of the property of the palace and the weavers made by the Francos are clearly negative and critical with regard to Franco, the frankism and the distortion and the appropriation of that peace. And look at that we agree on the fundamentals, which is the need to exhaust and maximize the legal possibilities, including the resource to be presented, because we are here on a subject that transcends the judiciary and goes to the politician. But we can't accept statements about the judgment that are false in addition to unnecessary, because you don't need to say that the sentence whitewashs frankism, which is an absolute falsehood and demagogy, in order to ask for it to go. And because the ruling keeps the main, which is the recovery of property by the state, so I insist, absolutely no one gave a penny of euro just two years ago. We celebrate this historical process, we go through what we have to go through, how the state will do, and we recognize all the people who put their big sand. Also those of the banners, but recognizing that it was the will, the clear political will of a progressive government to which you have permitted and which will allow the recovery of the palace of Meirás. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u56	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. On the amendment of the PP, do you accept the amendment of the People's Group, Mr Arangénena?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u57	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u58	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Do you accept the transaction? Perfect, so we only vote once, the transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay. I think it's the right thing to do. We started by voting on non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals Vote of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Maria Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to provide adequate attention to mental health No amendments were tabled. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u59	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. Voting of the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members, on the maintenance by the Greek Government of the operation of the CEIP of Baamonde, in the municipality of Begonte, discarding any possibility of undermining the centre The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u60	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. There's a transaction to which the groups came, and I'm going to read it because it seems to me to be a transaction to be read. And he says, "The Parliament calls on the Council of Galicia to prepare for the evaluation of the 2nd Women's and Science Programme in this session. Second, after the evaluation, begin the development of the III Women's and Science Programme, within the Women's and Science Unit and in collaboration with the Interdepartmental Commission I+D+i and the Women's Associations in Galicia Science, and the Associative Associative Associative Researchers. For its proper execution, this program must count on its own budget, including a specific and sufficient game to ensure the operation of the women's and science unit. Thirdly, to introduce the necessary actions, even if necessary by modifying existing legislation to ensure the incorporation and participation in the Women's and Science Unit of entities and collectives representing the area of research in Greek". We voted for this transaction. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río and 14 other Members, on the preparation by the Galician Council of the evaluation of the second Women's and Science Programme, as well as on the start of the preparation of the III programme The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u61	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Marisol Díaz Mouteira. There was an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group where you accepted two points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u62	Let's actually see; following the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block of Addendum, we finally reached a transaction in relation to two specific competences. If you'll excuse me, I'll read it in a moment: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to ask the Government of Spain for the transfer of competences for the management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial, and the management competences of the fisheries sector and oceanographic research."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u63	Thank you. We vote for that transaction. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Sol Díaz Mouteira and six other Members, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer to Galicia of competences for the management of the public domain of the sea-terrestrials. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u64	Finally, we voted on the two non-legislative proposals that were debated in a cumulative way. You sink into a transaction, which has been read here and commented already by Mr Bará. We voted for it. Vote for the transactioned text of the following non-legislation proposals: Proposal for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís and two other Members, on the demand to the Government of the State for the appeal against the ruling of the Provincial Court in relation to the palace of Meirás to defend historical truth and public interest and to avoid any compensation to the Franco family Proposal for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Paul and Mrs Paloma Castro Rey, on the request to the Government of the State to exhaust all legal possibilities for the defence of the interest of the State, including, if technically possible and advisable, the appeal against Judgment 60/2021, of the Third Section of the Provincial Court of the Crown, concerning the favourable ruling on compensation for the expenses incurred in the immovable by the Franco family The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u65	It's a pleasure, three full-length follow-up: unanimity. It's a wonder! I wish it would stay that way for a long time. The votes are over here. So now we continue with the interpellations. Mr Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the German Government on mental health care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u66	Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. The great hangover of the pandemic we live in will be the pandemic of mental health. We will probably have on top already, and it will probably be very obvious in the coming months and years to see a serious mental health problem in the population from the crisis we are currently experiencing. For all reasons, for health problems, for fear, for uncertainty, for the socio-economic issue, for a number of reasons. Despite that, today, sadly -- and they worry about us deeply -- mental health is not an effective guaranteed right in Galicia. It's not. Mental health today, mental health treatment in Galicia is more a privilege than a right. We have a small number of professionals with regard to what we need. The most common data, by rounding them out, show that, despite the fact that one in five people about will suffer a mental health disorder in their lifetime, of every three who will suffer, two will not be cared for in the public system, they will probably not even be able to be cared for in the private network. Because of a lack of resources, and on many occasions also because mental health suffers from a problem of undervaluation that causes a certain social taboo, which we are breaking but which is still slow, and to which it is made up in many ways, also decreasing its attention and importance in the public system. Today it is not real and effective to guarantee mental health care in Galicia's public health system, it is not real. And therefore, in the face of this situation, we are very concerned. This reality that two out of three people will not be treated in an effective and real way, which causes us to see what's going on out there. Yesterday, the BNG instances were already discussing an initiative, and I was thinking about something that we think shows enough, that when a person of us can comment on or know of someone known, friend, family, or ourselves, that we can have a mental disorder problem, from there the thought of if one has to go -- put the reference of a clinical psychologist, it could be another professional -- to a psychologist the idea that comes to our head is a private psychologist. Sergas' reality is not prepared to meet our needs. Today half the attention is on a date every four months. Thirty-minute quotes, which make any resolution impossible. In another plan we could debate why some pharmacological treatments can be prescribed if they are not mental health professionals, which happens. It does not occur in other specialties, but although some healthcare professionals, not being mental health specialists, may prescribe mental health pharmacological treatments. All of this leads to something that is obvious, even though you often want to discuss with the screen "we must respect professionals." Respecting professionals is giving them time, resources and means to be able to care for them because if not, we're watching that we have a deeply pharmacologicalized system. And probably on many occasions it's a way to treat, the most effective one on some occasions, or that collaborates with another type of therapy very effectively, but it's not the only one, and nowadays practically -- practically -- the public system is delivered to pharmacology in terms of mental health; and that's not, it's not clinically the best, it's certainly not the best for the system, and especially it's not the best for people. Because they can be elements that contribute, but they are not always the only one and they should not always be part of the solution. We thought that we needed a reformulation of the model, we needed a new model of mental health care, and that's why we need to resize it. We have raised three big blocks of ideas in which we believe it is important and we want to know your opinion about it and from then on try to reach an agreement in this Parliament. It has to do with staff, resources and that new care model or how we focus on it. In matters of staff, we have the worst ratio of people in mental health in Spain, and it's not yet, we've been with this problem for years. We've been reporting this problem for years here, professionals have been reporting it on the street for years, reporting it at various meetings. They always get the same: we'll do, we'll do, we'll do. It has a nuance, what we get here is: we're doing, we're doing, we're doing, we're doing, we're doing, we're doing, we're changing a little bit of verbal time, but the result is always the same, we're still absolutely the same. And we're still on a level of staff that's incapable of assuming the volume of work you have. It doesn't dissolve with a couple of people. I know that last year a seemingly massive contract was announced, but it won't put us in the middle of Spain, which shows that we're in a very complex position. In spite of that, there are also some questions about staff -- allow me, I have to mention them -- which is important to take into account, which is about professionals. Recently -- and it's understood as something apparently smaller in this debate -- the advisor announced that he was going to help all Sergas professionals with a course or a conference on emotional well-being. An online conference to which 44,000 Sergas professionals are summoned, basically an online conference that will also give professionals outside of Galicia with rumbled surnames, with very rumbled surnames. I'm not going to discuss clinical or scientific quality, I'm very convinced of it, but you can discuss it with many professionals, there are remaining professionals in Galicia. Respecting them also means understanding that their work is so good that we can count on them, that's a question of respect. [[Applause]] And as it's not usual in us, but allow me, because it usually says FEAFES and they say it to professionals, the same in vaccination processes we don't care about mental health in general either. Because it contributes to this small dimensioning, it's the little sister of the health systems, it's not just a problem in Galicia, but it's a general concept of a little sister. And here in Galicia, for example, it was produced that later came into -- the ones that entered, not all of them -- in the process of professional vaccination and patients. As far as resources are concerned, there's a lot we can talk about. As a matter of fact, we are considering through the initiative two elements of the material resources of the infrastructure that we believe represent a great deal of our reality. First of all, the psychiatric and infant-juvenile hospitalization unit in southern Galicia; I think it has been promised in recent months. And I promised her, like, the president, Mr. Feijóo, in his investment speech, if I don't remember bad. He promised himself in 2019, promised himself in 2018, promised himself in the 2016 speech or election campaign... I promised you Mr. Santalices at the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo Hospital, who already said he was going to count on that unit. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr Santalices, with all due respect, you are not in the debate! You're not in the debate, Mr. Santalices. [[Laughter]] Mr. Santalices, please! I'm gonna have to draw your attention. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, you're not in the debate. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Santalices announced the arrival that promises so many times these things happen, that in the end he realizes that promising and asking seems the same and it's not the same. In any case -- go there to play -- there's a problem with that unit and it's that when it comes up it's going to be so widely needed to expand the child-child units that when it comes up it's not too late, it's already going to get out of hand; so we need to face things beyond the promises. Second problem, Conxo. Conx -- I quote literally some mental health professional -- "it's a human rights drain." Congo has a very serious problem, it has been evaluated by the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture, which is already terrifying in its name, and the evaluation has not been good. His general director, when he presented the mental health plan here and was questioned for this reason in this Parliament, laughed at the matter in absolute disregard. I have for myself that you don't have that perception of the matter, and I think -- and we're going to give you the benefit of the doubt -- that you must face that situation, but Conxo needs to be confronted because it's a problem today where patients' rights are not guaranteed. And where, by setting just one example, there have been patients who have been without the correct administrative procedure for decades to ensure that they must remain interns, decades! and this is not an assumption. New care model. We believe it is important to address the need to integrate the centres into the system. Today mental health units in many cases -- not in all -- are away from health centers, hospital centers, contributing to that issue of generating I don't say ghetto, but the idea that it's something apart, and they must be integrated into the system. You don't have the integrated Sergas -- and we've claimed it -- many health services that should be Sergas's, but they're assumed by the municipalities. Some specific mental health units or services of [...], for example, in some municipalities, Sergas should assume that. We believe in the need to effectively integrate mental health into primary care, not through coordination mechanisms, but through, in fact, the integration of professionals. And we want to know what your opinion on that is. And so through that new model, what you're going to propose is more time to meet, more care capacity and a less pharmacological, more therapeutic, more humane model. Because if we've always talked about the humanization of health, there's nothing more human than having more people in health and, therefore, more human resources will make it more human. All this is what we thought. Our conscience is that we have a serious problem above, very serious, which is visible now, which is beginning to understand a serious problem, but which is far more serious than we can often be aware of. Because you know deeply that the system is not really prepared to meet mental health needs, and this is something that concerns us because we have a very worrying situation that we believe it is important to deal with specific things. And don't come again to promise things, it won't be that Mr. Santalices has to make a health voice and promise again that a unity is made from that one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u68	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. I'm sorry to have intervened, but it's a matter that I'm in love with, nothing but for that. But, well, I know what I said at that time. Well, that's something else. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's another story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The health adviser, Mr. Julio García Comesaña, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Torrado, we speak today about mental health, and we also spoke yesterday, indeed, shortly after the CIS data have been known, for example, about the state of mental health of Spanish people after the pandemic. The survey shows what we all knew, and in many cases even by our personal scope. The health crisis caused fear, difficulty sleeping, and a high percentage of the population is more concerned about their health than before the pandemic, which is obvious. Citizens have seen how their daily life has changed from one day to another and economic, health and social uncertainties predict that they have consequences on mental health in the medium and long term; we fully agree on it. To this concern about the mental health of citizens, we had to add -- and we did -- the concern about our health care professionals who faced the first line of action on the pandemic and who continue today, a year later, on that first line. And above all they did at a time when the knowledge we had about the disease was few and they had to live with the suffering of the families and the patients they cared for. That's why we wanted to launch the Psychosocial Care Plan for all the professionals in the Galician Health Service in order to be able to address the psychological sequels that could or might have caused the pandemic; in fact, we've started it, as you well said. These early activities are not, of course, a conference, I'm sorry that you don't know the plan more deeply -- I can put it back -- because you'll see that it's not a conference that's the only one there, there's a lot more. It's actually started with a conference, and I'll ask you next time for your opinion on the names of the summons. I think he's a reference professional and, indeed, we have many professionals who have all participated in the plan, but, well, disqualify someone who comes in... what if it's true is that, look, the conference was last week and it's 8,000 downloads, so bad it shouldn't be. The pandemic has changed the forecasts for our future and also modified the plans of the Health Council, logically, especially in the approach of mental health. The Health Council held in 2020 an extraordinary call for assistance aimed at implementing programmes of general interest in the field of mental health and the conditions for minimizing the impact of covid-19 on the mental health of the population of Galicia with a credit of 412,000 euros, with the aim of improving the facilities of care centres, psychosocial care, or prevention of additions, or mental disorders, as well as community intervention programmes for people at risk of mental disorder and also in programmes to improve employability. In addition, we have expanded the number of squares in psychosocial support devices for people with severe mental disorder, thereby increasing the intended budget and its funding. In the area of care: measures have been taken regarding the protocols of the network of care centres to additive disorders; in the specific resources of Sergas, a protocol has been developed to facilitate therapeutic exits during confinement for people with psychosocial disabilities; therapeutic programs have been adapted to protected floors; and care continuity programs to people with severe mental disorders, which have been kept uninterrupted. In addition, the telematic and household follow-up of the patients of the psychosocial and labor rehabilitation centres was carried out. And many other matters of organization and operation that I'm not going to detail now, because it's not likely, but they've allowed everybody to continue to care for with a mental disorder that required it. In addition -- as you know, and you were referring -- in June last year, the board of directors approved the Mental Health Plan of Galicia poscovid 2020-2024, which provides for different measures and targets for improving the quality of care for people with mental disorders and also for prevention and early detention. In addition to centering the recovery on the patient’s environment to reduce the risk of presenting a mental disorder; and, in the event that this occurs, minimize the impact its suffering has on people and families. WHO considers that current circumstances double the risk of mental disorder and, therefore, increase people who may suffer from depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, as well as increased alcohol consumption and vulnerability of people with severe mental disorder. That's why this plan has already adapted to the circumstances of the pandemic so as to try to minimize the consequences for the mental health of the Galician population. As you know, the plan has a budget of 83 million euros over the four years of its vigilance. And in the assumptions already in force in 2021 -- and we could comment on it in the committee that we had this effect -- the amount for mental health in 2021 is 12 million euros. You'll remember that we said that it was planned to incorporate these staff mostly from April, i.e. next month. We have already said that, not today, because you ask me, but we have already said so in the Committee on Budgets. This year, about EUR 4 million has increased the staff budget for 2020, which will be used for the recruitment of 120 new professionals, which account for 50 % of the total plan only this year, since, as you know, this plan is envisaged for the recruitment of 241 professionals. We started hiring these professionals last year and we will continue -- as I say -- until we reach the 120 distribution that I'm going to give them below: CEA of Psychiatry is incorporate 32, we take 4 already incorporated; CEA of Clinical Psychology, we take 31, we take 13; social worker, they become incorporate 12; nurses in mental health, they become 32, and we take 5; nursing assistants, they become incorporate 11; and occupational therapists are incorporate 2. This -- I repeat -- is the 120 that is planned to incorporate in the first two years. This effort is being made to complete the existing staff framework to date in the Italian public health in order to strengthen attention and, especially -- as I said -- work in the area of prevention. The recruitment of all these staff will make it possible that in this year 2021, in which we are, not only have more professionals, but these professionals are associated with specific programmes: in particular, 7 liaison programmes with primary care; it seems essential to make this link to primary care and therefore there will be a program for each health area; 7 hospital liaison programs, including psychological support programs for healthcare professionals, Come to Care, this plan that you only summarized at a conference -- within this plan, I repeat -- ; 3 infant-juvenish day hospitals -Santiago, Lugo and Vigo-, also beginning to work at the location of the room, the one of Ourense, with the objective of counting with one by province; we will reinforce the Hospitalization Program at home in Urense with 2 teams, Lugo and Pontevedra; 4 suicide prevention programs: A Coruña, Lugo, Pontevedra and Vigo; in particular, Vigo has already eaten. We will strengthen psychiatric care teams in homes of older and other health care centers in the 7 health areas. We will also increase psychiatric rehabilitation squares in Santiago and create a psychogeriatric unit in Ourense. Also 3 mental health units in Coruña, Santiago and Vigo; and 2 juveniles in Coruña and Vigo. In addition, 7.5% increased, up to 6.6 million euros, the budget for protected apartments, specific residential units and psychosocial and labour rehabilitation centres; 17% more than in 2019. Investments, close to a million euros, in the purchase of computer health equipment, furniture, etc., of more than 700,000 euros for social and labour inclusion, prevention of suicide, election of community care socio-sanitary programmes. We have already approved the functional plan of the infant-juvenile health hospital unit at Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, approved functional plan, so this year you can bid both the drafting of the project and the execution of the works and, if possible, even initials. So it's already a reality. So far we only have facilities located at Santiago Clinic Hospital, which has 7 beds for patients with acute disorders, as you well know, or serious psychopathologies, so the creation of this unit will complement the hospital care of the infant-youth population, in this case of southern Galicia. This unit must ensure the care of patients and their safety, so it will have 6 individual rooms, but which can be doubled, always adjusting to staff ratios and without needing to perform new works. It will also have complementary spaces, such as isolation space, nursing control, procedure room, multipurpose office and other structural spaces, such as toilets, offices or warehouses. This area will also be equipped with a large common multipurpose area, dining area, area of activity, classroom where compulsory classes are held and living area for children and children and their families as well. Regarding the Conxo Hospital, Mr. Torrado, the proceedings initiated by the Prosecutor's Office have already been filed. And since the council, we have had an absolute collaboration with the People's Defender. In addition, the Mental Health Plan plans to increase the staff of the centre, both optional and occupational therapists, and to provide new hospital facilities. Even so, we will work towards improving the spaces in the center and, of course, its humanization. The commitment of the Government of Greece to advance the improvement of mental health care in Galicia was reflected in that plan of what we talked about, and presented, as we said, at the Council in June, and in what we are taking important steps. In fact, in the management agreements that Sergas signed with the health areas, it is explicitly collected the development of the commitments of each health area in the current year, and in which this year many of them belong to the field of mental health in order to create integrated and rapid social processes, in addition to responses for people suffering from mental disorder and their close proximity. We have therefore planned an important effort on the material, economic and human resources of what you were talking about and, above all, on specific projects that I have just related to a necessary improvement and attention to the mental health of our community with which we, of course, agree that it needs to be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u70	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Counselor, we share something, I believe the concern for the situation, and allow me to point out some questions about what you moved. First of all, about the lectures you mentioned. Look -- I won't play bad conscience -- I'll have you criticize me because I criticize you for something I didn't do, I told you to keep my rating. You've already understood it was bad. You weren't quite clear anymore. And of course I know the plan has nothing, it's not just a couple of lectures. He did some things with the Official College of Psychology. Of course I know him. Anyway, of course I know him. What we're saying is that... If it's not for me to ask for advice, see if there are professionals in Galicia to ask for opinion that even they could count on them to make those whole days. By the way, I don't share the view that 8,000 downloads of a YouTube video are good for working mental health, which I certainly don't share. I may be wrong, but I don't share it. We don't agree with the perception of what it takes to work if we measure YouTube downloads, it doesn't go that way from our point of view. And you also quoted about the concern, I quoted the data I mentioned earlier, which I quoted yesterday too, had to do with before the pandemic. It's that the situation in which we are in is excessively serious but extremely serious, but it's situations that are going down for time and that when they appear, we can no longer operate fire-fighting, no. We need to understand what we're going to find in sight in a while, people... now we're going to talk about people who live alone, older people who live alone and who have difficulties, who are disorientated, people who have lived this pandemic alone at home in difficult contextual situations, people who are already being treated for mental health and who have sometimes been interrupted because people are unable to generate a capacity to control the situation. The affective problems, the social change that is producing us this pandemic that is changing our value system. I mean, we're in a very serious situation that, if it was already horrible before and we didn't want to see it, it's going to shoot. And he's going to shoot in addition, as all the crises always show, he's going to shoot among the younger people and among the women. Because mental health is a problem that also has a woman's name more commonly, and we have that problem on the table as well because during this pandemic, and we all know that, if there was a particular damage, it was also more about women than about men because of the contextual issues we've all known. So we're in a very worrying situation. And before that you announce again the mental health plan, welcome, welcome, but allow me, welcome all investment, well, fantastic, we applaud that investment you announced. Practically everything he said, in everything, you have to recognize it, practically everything he said in verbs in the future. But do you know what happens with mental health announcements in this government? That I've heard that plan announce in 2016. It happens that your CEO said the Plan 2007-2011 was canceled because, of course, it was until 2011 and that it was bad for a government that made plans for more than one legislation. And you announced this in an election campaign, with which the legislation ended. Do you know what's going on? That we demanded this plan in 2016 and PP voted against, in 2017 and voted against, in 2019 and voted against. Do you know what's going on? That the child-child unit you've announced again right now we've seen it announced so many times, so many times in the future that we no longer believe it. And what we demand is not to promise again, but to do it, because when we propose it here, the PP votes against. Do you know what's going on? That with Conxo we brought here that it's not a question of the Prosecutor's Office, that it would be a problem and it's very good to file, the problem is that the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture says that there is use of illegal mechanical restraints in Conxo; and that decisions are made that are not supported; and it says that the rights of the people who are there are not guaranteed are not guaranteed. And that's been happening since 2017, which is known, because the Ombudsman has come to make that assessment. And we here demanded that it be improved, and the PP voted against. And we sue him again and he voted against it. And I asked the CEO and he didn't want to talk about it. [[Applause]] Do you know what's going on? That we've been saying for years that mental health professionals here in Galicia have a job burning problem and the PP votes against all the projects about it. Do you know what's going on? That when we bring here the need to work on the mental health problems of Sergas patients, the PP votes against. It's just that we're very, very saturated and we know very well the ability to promise. You, Counselor, promise very well, but the problem is that they do very wrong. And what we don't want is to be here the year that comes back to talk about this and listen to big promises, which are very good, but the best of the great promises is when they come true. [[Applause]] And I will announce and tell you that the mental health plan has already promised you by Mr. Feijóo, who I had heard, that I had heard, in 2016, and go to 2021. And so we can't believe it. We will believe it when it is done and well done it will be. So what we move is that talking is very good, but even doing it would be better and, therefore, what we urge them to do is what they do. We will bring a motion to compromise these things that you move and in which we are supposedly agreeing, and we will therefore wait for the favourable vote at the next plenary session, because we will bring these questions. Because, what will happen if we consider all this at the next session and the People's Party votes against? That's the question, and I don't do it, the professionals do it and the patients do it, they don't often answer parliamentary issues, and I understand them, but they're the ones who need to make those decisions, and eventually the thing is to do and not promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u72	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u73	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, I'm going to try to clarify some things or share some things with you. I had already said that, of course, I fully agree with and in favour of making these reforms in the field of mental health, since those that have been made and, of course, the commitment of the Greek Government, I believe, transferred to that June board of directors, is unquestionable. But beyond that, if there was any doubt, there are the facts I just moved right now from those 22 professionals who are already hired and working. Some of them -- I repeat -- within the framework of the Psychosocial Care Plan, these 13 clinical psychologists -- well, of these 13 important ones, hired specifically in that plan, that line of work was already covered by the plan, that of the psychosocial care of the workers, which, I take advantage and insist, this is an initiative that is part of the Central Labour Risk Prevention Service, in the field of the psychosocial risks of Sergas workers, which is also their competence; I want to value this work that has done this service and the Human Resources Directorate of the board, together with all the human resources directions of the health areas, which have proposed this plan, which, I repeat, as I said -- and I am glad that you know it -- it is not only based on the inaugural conference, but it has much more there. For example, I repeat, speaking of specific data, these clinical psychologists who are at the disposal of the workers in each of the health areas to make the corresponding consultations. So I think there's specific data there and I answer two things, care for professionals in this complicated context where we are and the will to do concrete things. As I said earlier, those millions of euros allocated in the 2021 budget for the mental health plan -- I repeat -- are in the budget and we can discuss them in addition and comment on them at the meetings we held. So, if they're a reality -- I repeat -- they're budgeted from April, and in April, all those resources will be incorporated, and not only resources, but above all the projects I've commented on. You're talking about the infant-youth unit. It's actually a unit that takes time on the table. I have to tell you in my experience as a manager that it wasn't easy to find the place where you could locate it, and I could move here, but it's not the case, the multiple meetings with the mental health and mental health professionals, doctors and nurses looking for the best location in an already built building, like the Cunquer. And finally, we had to go to another location, not exactly where we'd like everyone, that linked to another subject that you were discussing, integrated into the hospital itself, is going to be in the hospital, of course. And I want to highlight at this point the decision of the Health Council, for some time now, that all the acute resources of public hospitals are within the hospital facilities. I was touched by the launch of the mental health unit of Cunqueiro Álvaro, fully integrated within, but no less integrated than that of Ourense, which was the last one that joined the building in 2018. So it's a clear line of work, not of course the devices of attention to the chronic patient, which I suppose you won't refer to that integration in the hospital, but of course in the context of the acute episode, that's a very clear line in recent years and that's not what I'm saying, there's no more to the examples I've just commented on. So this infant-youth unit in Vigo is a reality, is the functional plan already approved. You're working on the execution project to do the work and we trust, as I said a little while ago, and you can tell me within a few months whether I lie or not, but from then on, the commitment of this board and the Vigo Health Area is to build that unit inside the hospital and in a place where there was finally a consensus to build it. You're talking about vaccination. I think... well, maybe you don't have all the information, but of course all the psychiatric care devices or mental health, of course the four hospitals that have unity: Conxo's in Santiago, Piñor's in Ourense, Calde's in Lugo or Nicolás Peña in Vigo, residents have already been vaccinated. Also the psychiatric residential unit of Cee, the psychiatric residential unit of Cervo, the psychiatric residential unit of Troncoso in Ourense, the psychiatric residential unit of Lar in Vilagarcía, The Robleda in Pino, The Pinar in Vigo and the psychiatric sanatories of San José also in Vigo. All of these residents are vaccinated. I don't know if there's any more, I don't think, but if there was any more, of course, our intention is to vaccinate them, as it couldn't be any other way. Regarding the topic of Conxo that you were also commenting on, we are talking about a hospital where patients are cared for by healthcare professionals specialists; we will start from this point: doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, nursery, assistants, in addition to a shift of presence and illness 24 hours every 365 days a year. Food supply is done just as in the rest of the hospital complex. Pharmacological treatments are always prescribed by a doctor, by a specialist, and supervised, like any other pharmacological procedure, by the Pharmacy Service of the University Complex of Santiago. The centre also has a school floor, a day centre, and an attached day hospital where day programs are developed. We're talking about an open door center, with the exception of those units where patients of special severity are found, and on which sometimes there are measures to replace condemnation. Keep a volunteering program active and work with staff from different entities and in patients and families. The management procedures of the situation are recorded in clinical history, in IANUS or GACELA and therefore are available to anyone who wants to see them, to consult for professional reasons and, of course, to audit. And they're also in favor of auditing them, and they're going to be implemented in Vigía, a computer system that we have in the Galician Health Service, a form for their compliance. All professionals working in this field are committed to improving the mental health of patients and promoting their rehabilitation and the improvement of their autonomy so that, if possible, they can be attended to standard community resources, which is the ideal that is always sought, or on floors protected or resources attended by care teams. So, obviously, there's always an area of improvement, and it's a point that we're especially concerned about, not the conxo psychiatric, but generally all the psychiatric. It's not the only center where we've required requests for information that have always been provided with maximum speed and maximum rigour. And I repeat, the example of the prosecutor's file, but, of course, he's always willing to collaborate and favor any kind of guy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u75	...requirement of information to be made in this respect. I'm done, keeping and insisting on our commitment, the commitment of the Galician Union to the improvement of mental health. Obviously, everything is better -- it said -- ; I think this commitment to this budgetary effort in structural resources, or in human resources above all, and above all, especially in projects that I've been doing here, are more than obvious, is a reality and, as I say, you can ask us for accounts in a few months when April comes and these resources are not running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u76	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the people who are in an unwilling state of loneliness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u77	Mrs Ortega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u78	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. Sodity, that word that denotes an objective state as is the fact that a person lives alone, but also the subjective feeling of the perception of feeling alone. Target loneliness doesn't have to be negative, there are even people who feel it as the most similar to freedom. But in other cases, perception is significantly negative, affecting the physical and mental health itself. Over the years in Galicia, and even more in rural areas, the people who lived alone did not in any case renounce social relations through the community itself. However, in recent times migration processes, rural depopulation, individualism, which even the technological advance itself can promote, and now more than ever the pandemic have caused many people to suffer the negative effects of the negative perception of loneliness. So from the Socialist Group we consider it urgent to bring this reality to the Galician Parliament, that of unwanted loneliness, after a pandemic that has seen this problem even further, and with a precedent agreed in this Parliament in 2019 the initiative of our parliamentary group on this problem and with the announcement of the advice, more than a year ago, committed to drawing up a plan for unwanted loneliness that has not yet arrived and with the absence of silent measures. More than ever, it's urgent right now. Over the last few years we have worked hard from all administrations to encourage physical exercise, cognitive stimulation, understanding how healthy habits to improve health and good aging, which are so. But let's forget to have an impact on a fundamental issue, which is to take care of our own social relationships and community ties, because it's one of the cornerstones of healthy habits that will not only affect emotional well-being, but also physical. The negative perception of loneliness has multiple faces, from an older woman who lives alone, who by the way most of the people who live alone have this profile, even a young man who suffers from the digital crack in the middle of this pandemic and therefore has been isolated from his group of equals in a fundamental age. And if not, we also need to take into account the increase in single-parent and single-manent homes that form the new structure of family unity, among others. As for older people, we wonder what consequences they have and will have the case of aging on the edge of the community, but also about the negative perception of loneliness there are also young and young people who have this feeling that in the pandemic crisis they have been aggravated, especially by the digital divide and in other cases related to other factors such as bullying, among others. Another face of unwanted loneliness is occupied by a large number of people with disabilities or dependence, who perceive social isolation. From the Red Cross they indicate that even this feeling can be perceived still living with more than 60%. I remember a young man's words in a report on unintended loneliness that after a disease he had been five years in a wheelchair and that he was slowly reporting the core of friends would disappear, with obvious social isolation, especially very hard, very hard to assume at those ages. He lived with his family, yes, but without his group of equals he felt alone. Or also the ones of an older man who reported his experience as a caretaker of his diagnosed woman from alzeimer there was more than a decade ago and who said he felt very lonely. The promotion of social ties within the community makes a society more inclusive. We must therefore include in these habits established for years as healthy this new joke as an immediate challenge. The tsunami of the pandemic changed a lot of things, habits, habits, but it also made visible hidden problems for our society, like this one. But already before the vault there were studies and evidence of the effects that unwanted loneliness causes on our society. One of the central axes addressed at the Fourth National Congress of Psychology was that of loneliness. In addition, on September 30 last year, the Official College of Psychology in Madrid signed, along with other entities, a manifesto against unwanted loneliness, which is certainly shared by the Official College of Psychology in Galicia. It becomes clear that it is necessary to reflect on the changes and transformations that are structurally occurring in our own society. Galicia is one of the territories most affected by population aging, as well as by demographic backwardness motivated among other issues by migratory movements that have led to the loss of much of the population weight especially in the age ranges corresponding to youth and early adulthood. The family unit model is changing. In Galicia nearly 280,000 people live alone according to the INE. This figure means that just over 10% of the population in Greece live alone. The problems arising from this matter were triggered when loneliness was not desired by the person in question. The problem is not only a matter that affects older people, but, as I said before, it is true that 128,800 of these single-person homes correspond to people over 65 and most of them correspond to women. And in addition, something that must turn on all alerts, since, according to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, worrying percentages of poverty risk rates are shown in people over 65 who live alone in Galicia. In particular, the data should be of great concern to a German Government that in the last legislation sold as the highest attention to older people and that the risk rate of poverty for older than 65 years had an increase in that last 11-point legislation in Galicia. This is a very hard data. [[Applause]] It's a very hard data, it's official data, data before the pandemic, so now, ladies, it can be even worse; we have to act now, from the entity Friends of the Majors, they make clear what it's important to take into account when we talk about loneliness: 1. Unwanted loneliness has an impact on all vital stages, but it sharpens exponentially during aging. 2. It is a complex, diverse and plural phenomenon. 3. It has a direct impact on people's quality of life, health and well-being. 4. They're not the same social exclusion, social isolation and unwanted loneliness. It is necessary to clarify the concepts in order to plan well for intervention or measures. 5. It's not an individual phenomenon, it's no longer a thing of one to become one thing of all. Today it's a social phenomenon. 6. When we approach unwanted loneliness, it's important to take a gender perspective into account. As a result of population aging itself, the increase of people with dementia is increasing and with worrying prospects for the next decades. There are investigations into the identification of risks in dementia and, as studies have indicated, one of the causal factors of dementia might be unwanted loneliness. The Department of Psychiatry Group of the Autonomous University of Madrid carried out a review of published studies on the long-term association between unwanted loneliness and dementia. Even the research itself statistically compares the effect of unwanted loneliness on dementia, with the risk of diabetes or physical inactivity, immersed in an unprecedented pandemic. Undesired loneliness problems have joined the proceeds of the restrictions motivated by cowardice. This fact has made a taboo reality transparent until recently, which we need to talk about, study, approach from a cross-sectional and coordinated perspective. From the Socialist Government, however, today we propose to the Greek Government that a specific Greek observatory be promoted on unwanted loneliness and an immediate Greek plan adapted to the results of that observatory. This plan should be managed through multidisciplinary teams, and local administrations should play a key role in starting Community plans. This Welsh observatory will be coordinated with the university research field, as well as social agents involved in detecting how many people are affected by this problem, which are the profiles, characteristics, differences between urban, rural, housing, etc., and thus being able to have an X-ray of what is happening in this context. Local administrations, as I said, should play a key role in initiating community plans adapted to each territory that dynamics socialization and link the roots of close social contacts, with specific and common resources supported by technological advances, in which the multidisciplinary team itself shares this information in order to avoid the most extreme outcome of this reality, as is that of people who die days in their homes without anyone being missed. Finally, run the power of prevention through alert and follow-up levels. We know that over a year ago, the General Directorate of Majors has focused attention on unwanted loneliness, especially older people. That the councillor proposed to the second German Government several initiatives in the struggle of unwanted loneliness within the thirty projects that the Central Government presented to capture the European funds from the recovery, transformation and resilience plan, unfortunately without passing through the Welsh House before to explain to the Greeks and the Greeks and collect the arrivals of the social agents involved and the rest of the groups. At this point, you can say that loneliness is an epidemic within a pandemic, as experts point out in this matter. Let's not let this to-do delay any longer, let's make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u79	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u80	Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega, good morning. In one of the most discouraging studies, the National Institute of Statistics reveals that in Spain there are over 2 million people over 65 who live alone; of these, 126,000 live in Galicia. All of them are a matter of concern to the Galician society and, by extension, to the Galician Union. Paraphrasing the great Russian novelist, it could be said that all the people who live with them look alike, but those who live alone do it each in their own way. We can't lose sight that a percentage of these people have chosen, precisely, that way of life and for them to live alone is not the same as feeling alone. But there are many others that, for some causes, most of the time the death of the person with whom they shared their lives, all these people live alone without wishing. The situation of all these larger ones has become even more important during this pandemic. Even though technology has been put more than ever before next to it to give them a service and to ensure that they also felt the affection of their relatives. Because spending all these months without someone physically with them has been very hard, and it makes us, really, to think more deeply about the aging model that we all want. The self-government is clear: the challenge is that every Welshman can become more as freely as he wishes, and that he has the specialized support to face this new stage of his life. In these circumstances, the alternatives to active aging in which we have been working for many years: the senior volunteering, for people over 55 years old, who can continue to work in a totally selfless way; or the wellness programs in balnearies and cliffs; or the Christmas program, which logically we had to suspend because of Covid-19, but which we trust we can resume when all this happens. There are also specific programmes for older people who live alone and need support. Programs like dinner in the house, where the elders count every day with healthy food and balanced food on their own table. In this way, more than 45,000 monthly menus are served to more than 1,600 people. Home Help Service, a program where we are a national reference, and where Galician Union invests more than 83.6 million euros each year, 10% more than in 2020. The Teleassistance Service, which manages the Red Cross and serves over 7,000 people in Galicia. Or also the set-up of the new homes of the major, small day centers in the Italian countryside, 100% free of charge for all the older people who attend them. To persist in this line of work, I tell you that in the next few days, we will present the Undesired Soy Care Strategy, a national and absolutely unique pioneering roadmap throughout Spain. This project was not undertaken by the Galician Union alone, but by the support of the Fegamp, with the support of the most representative social entities in Galicia and who work daily without rest in the area of older people. To get here, the first step was to make a diagnosis of unwanted loneliness in Galicia to know its causes and consequences, as well as the various initiatives launched elsewhere or elsewhere in the European Union. The next step was to get to know the profile of people living in unwanted solitude, both at the national level and in our community. The result of these studies allowed us to get a first approach to this phenomenon, and so we know that there is a greater presence of unwanted loneliness among older people, mainly women with health problems and lower income levels. Ladies and gentlemen, minimizing the effects of this phenomenon on our elders requires the design of specific actions. Therefore, the Galician Union Plan is oriented into five strategic lines of action: First - and as you said, Mrs Ortega - it is necessary to work on prevention, it is important to act before the phenomenon appears, and we will do so by promoting activities that favor social relationships, such as volunteering, social participation or cultural participation; or even promoting new forms of housing, such as cohousing or intergenerational housing. Secondly, there is the detection: detecting cases of unwanted loneliness among older people means the involvement of all of us as society. That person who is suffering may be our neighbor, a friend or even a relative. Detecting these situations is crucial for all of these people to be immediately derived from programs designed to mitigate their effects. Thirdly, there is the intervention: persisting in actions that I have already mentioned; or also through actions such as the continuing training of primary care professionals and social services to know how to intervene at every moment; or as the new residential model, focused on the person and its surroundings; or also through the realization of a resource map at their disposal and which responds perfectly to their needs. Fourthly, there is the visibility of the phenomenon so that we all know the problem and can act. And fifthly, there is cooperation between the public, private and social sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, this strategy is born in order to be participatory and always have a broad social consensus. A strategy that will respond to the demands that arise in the society in which we are living and that will allow us to live the greatest Greeks, as they live, feel stronger or stronger than ever, the support and affection of society, and that we will always be with them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u82	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u83	Thank you, President. Counsellor, she says, "I announce to you the Galician Strategy of Attention to Undesirable Soy" as if it were an exclusive one, this has already announced it more than a year ago, and the social agents involved have no further knowledge of the matter, and as a result of this questioning I am glad to know that right now for the end of the decision to act, it is good news. [[Applause]] He also commented on services that have been operating for many years, such as Wellness, Balnearios, Christmas dinners, dinners at home, and the SAF, teleassisted, which are also part of the service program for dependent people. And, well, what we're talking about here is the specific cases of unwanted loneliness, and a specific plan for it, of a specific observatory to be able to study more thoroughly this issue so that we can support people who are suffering in this case -- and today more than ever after this pandemic -- which is unwanted loneliness and which, as we know, has proven effects on the few studies that exist in this regard. The Greek Government owes a detailed explanation, however, to all the Greeks and Greeks and the social agents involved, who await information on the alleged 33 projects to raise European funds that it presented in Madrid, without passing through this House representative of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is urgent to respond immediately, Counselor, to the challenge of unwanted loneliness, but not a blind but data-based response, in studies supported by experts on the subject. In Galicia we have a high-level university with a lot of experience, with researchers and researchers on level, very well-prepared Greeks and Greeks who can provide a lot of knowledge in this matter. That's why from our group we see it important to create a specific observatory on unwanted loneliness for a clear diagnosis of this reality and an ambitious plan for unwanted loneliness that puts this issue at the heart of one of the communities most affected by aging and depopulation. In addition, the measures must go from the local administration, the one who knows in the first place the circumstances of unwanted loneliness adapted, of course, to the territory. The administration which can best develop in particular the very important detection strategy, and which can put names and names to this harsh reality, which is more and more concerned with our society, that is, not in any way, but with coordinated strategy and accompanied by economic departures at the time of the problem. The report by the Galego Observatory for Demographic Dynamics indicates that there is an increase of more than 25 years in life expectancy, from 47 in 1950 to 72 in 2018; the provisional estimate for 2020 was 75 years. Since every newborn child lived from an average of about 30 years, as happened during most of human history, this increase of more than 25 years, cited an average that exceeds 9 hours of life expectancy per day for 65 years. It's a truly amazing human achievement that hasn't yet come to an end. People living in Galicia enjoy one of life's hopes at the highest birth on the planet. It is a tremendously positive thing, but we are therefore faced with the triumph of society questioned by the lack of links, as Dolores Puga was entitled in the report of the Higher Council of Scientific Research, of the Foesa Report. The increase in life expectancy is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of our society. In our hand is acting so that we can optimize this fact to the fullest. For that, the goal must be to live more years, but with the highest quality of life possible. So today we see as urgent a plan for the unwanted loneliness that starts from a specific observatory for that. It's not the first time he comes to this House, and I hope the replica doesn't do the same thing as other times, that he waits for the replica, when I don't have the counter-reply shift to charge against the central government on competencies that are from this government, I hope he doesn't. [[Applause]] Oh, okay. The only thing you can do with this, Counselor, with all due respect, is to transfer to the public an insecurity on its part, and the lack of support from a Greek Government that has to be up to it more than ever in its functions, so it is important that we courageously assume our competences and work with rigour and resolve, Counselor. Let's make it possible, that one's demand becomes the demand of society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u84	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ortega, in my first intervention I had the opportunity to list some of the resources that the German Government makes available to older people to mitigate the negative effects of loneliness. And in the next few days -- as I also told you -- we will call the most important entities in the area of Galician seniors to present the draft of the Welsh Strategy against unwanted loneliness. And this does not mean, of course, that everything is already done, that everything is finished, but, as I told you, that we are faced with a new reality, the fruit of a changing society. And it always requires a joint response from all administrations and, of course, also an answer from all society. Because the commitment of the Galician Union to older people is not limited to ensuring their physical well-being, which is essential but not enough, but also to seek their emotional well-being. You told me I announced it more than a year ago; that's why we've been working this whole year, but you're supposed to live, actually, we've been working a lot for older people, both in residential and out of it. We've been living this whole year with a health pandemic and I suppose you're sharing with me that the priority was to face Covid-19 and bring the older people forward. You also talk about what we have to do with the local administration's hand, but what is Fegamp? We've precisely made this strategy of the hand of Fegamp. Because we understand and share with you that the municipalities are the gateway to social services and that we have to work together with them to detect all the people who live alone and do not want to live alone. Look, I never charge the Central Government, I do what I do in this House when I talk about the Central Government is to say what Galicia owes us. I suppose, as a social policy advisor, it's my responsibility to demand more and more intensively than the central government does. I'm not talking about skills, I'm talking about funding. [[Applause]] And when I talk about the central government, I say that the central government is tough; if my duty is not to sue 200 million euros that the central government owes to the Greeks every year, you tell me what to do. I'm actually asking you, Mrs Ortega -- as I always do -- to help us with your Central Government of the Socialist Party and to pay the part that corresponds to your dependency bill. Because the attention of older people is not only in the residential sector, but also all these older people who live alone and don't want it. All these older people who live alone and are dependent also need the funds of the dependency that their central government doesn't send us to Galicia. But ultimately, we will always continue to take steps to improve and to reach a better society where our older ones can grow old, they can pass this new stage of their life freely, actively and fully integrated into our society. Steps on how to move forward in the Home Dining Service, steps on how to move forward with advanced teleassistion, steps on such as continuous reinforcement in the Home Help Service so that older people can continue living in their own homes. Or steps -- as I said -- like the launch of the Houses of the Major, a pioneering initiative in Galicia that is already studying and copying other autonomous communities at the national level, which are very grateful to the older people, a free service alongside their homes and families. But for that it is necessary for all of us to work together, the People's Party, the Socialist Party or the Galician Nationalist Block, to achieve a common goal. I can assure you that the Council of Galicia and the Council of Social Policy, within its competences, will always continue to develop actions for the welfare of our elders. I really trust that all the parliamentary groups in this House share the challenges we face, because the well-being of the older people depends on each and every one of us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u86	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Ana Pontón Mondelo's inquiry and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the economic and social crisis that enlivens Ferrol's region.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u87	Mr. Fernández Alfonzo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u88	Good morning to all and to all. As is known to all of us, today in Ferrol's territory there is developing a day of general strike fruit of a call made by the IGC, UGT and Commissions, such as the majority trade unions in the district of Ferrol. A general comarcal strike certainly strange, not because it's comarcal scope, which, being unusual in the district of Ferrol, is not a novelty either, we have some experience in this. It's very strange obviously because of the pandemic, because the call was made right in the middle of the third strike in a context of strong restrictions that suffer mainly from housing and trade, which are causing tremendous economic effects in these sectors and which could have encouraged a strong questioning of the strike call, of the opportunity of the moment rather than of necessity. But, in any case, it could have caused a social debate on this issue which has not occurred. Interestingly, he has only collected support, from employers to all political parties, including the People's Party, that they have ratified on several occasions despite not being very well received by the summoners. Such is the situation of Ferrol County, such as the emergency situation that no one wants to portray in front of the banner, in this case even the People's Party wanted to put itself behind one of those banners that are so boring. This, without a doubt, has already been the first success of the strike, to place the focus on the situation of a much-needed region of urgent solutions, in the midst of a generalized pandemic crisis, in the midst of totally triggered media debates, has succeeded in attracting the focus to a very specific region of the country and denouncing an emergency situation such that no one has ever dared to deny or nude. It is worth pointing out today that Ferrol is leading the unemployment rates of the seven cities of Greece, which has an active population under 50%, which is absolutely unsustainable. But above all that the comarcas of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal together lose four times more population than the half-Greek, an unusual fact that expresses better than any other the situation of decline that the comarca lives, in the particular case of the city of Ferrol has lost one third of its population in the last 25 years. And all because of political decisions, you can share the blame because you've been altering the Spanish government ever since. It is not so, however, in the case of the German Government, where, less the period of the bipartisan and other small exception, the PP governs Galicia practically alone. It's no wonder the announcement of your strike support had been received poorly, although I suppose you wouldn't expect anything else either. The abandonment of the Ferrol River, which today produces 10 percent of what it produced 10 years ago, is driving out of the sector slowly but uninterruptedly the staff who have been working in that stream for years. The situation of the bank of the Pyas, which was the most productive seafood bank in the Welsh rivers, is today of absolute collapse with the negative consequences that this has in the rest of the banks of the river, a laugh which accumulates so much mud that in certain areas it can already wander from one river to the other with low tide. You're letting a creek die, an incomparable source of wealth, a natural, landscaped and sentimental heritage for all the Greeks and Greeks; ultimately, one of Galicia's national emblems. A fact that in any country in the world would mean the fulminating resignation or termination of the corresponding political officer, in this case that responsible is the Fisheries Adviser. In the Ferrol naval sector they've lost their jobs over the past few months, 2,000 people. However, it was still this same week that the first ERE in the sector was announced, specifically for 36 people in Gabadi. How do you explain this? Due to the precariousness of the naval sector, the brutal and illegal percentages of potential personnel. So in recent months 2,000 people have ceased to work, without needing to carry out any ERE. That's how they passed more unnoticed, for example, than Siemens Gamesa's ERE, which affected less than 300 people. This is the result of the imposition of severe productive restrictions on Navantia Ferrol's River, as well as a model of a company designed to transfer personnel from auxiliary workers to instability in the occupation of the yard, a chronic, structural and assumed instability to the detriment of working conditions, a product of restrictions to the military market. In fact, the decline in the region begins on the same day that the so-called conversion began, the day that in Madrid they cut off the map of the naval construction the center of Fene, so that where they got to work 15,000 people today do not reach 3,000. And he goes on, the last episode of these restrictions is still running with Navantia's resignation in the Ferrol River to the marine wind market in favor of the private company Winder, delivering nothing less than Fene's facilities to execute the contracts. In fact, in case someone had doubts about who is now sent to Fene, they have just painted the portic crane of the old Iberdrola Green Tin. As for the announcement made by Endesa over 12 months ago about the closure of the bridge thermal, we're still waiting for the Board to quantify the biofuel project I said to support. We don't know how many groups or how much time they would work, we don't know what price/quilovatio calculate to enter the system; we don't know how they plan to feed the plant or what price, or where the waste will come from. Nor do the rural or environmental advisories think about it, which there is little chance of having a recovery plan for these wastes which is incompatible with the bridge project. All we know is that Endesa is not interested in this project, and that Joine does -- when we ask her -- as if this didn't matter. We fear that this can be in nothing or, at best, that it is a partial and insufficient solution. And you will be complicit in feeding false expectations, a curtain of smoke that is serving as an alibi not to push, for example, the fair transition agreement. But above all to avoid the debate that should be given priority at this time: what energy model do we want for Galicia and how do we make the most of our energy resources? The general strike in the district of Ferrol is a cry of dignity, a sufficient one has arrived; we will be full of unfulfilled promises. They exercise their powers, govern, take the initiative and assume their responsibilities. A cry that demands solutions: for Navantia, new infrastructures, diversification and recovery of activities; for The Bridges, real reactivation and reindustrialization plans, don't cast them in the air; and, for Ferrol's laugh, a serious project for its integral regeneration. Three areas, three sectors where collaboration between the German and Spanish governments is required because both governments have the capacity to act and compete in these sectors, both of them. So stop sterile accusations and rule, agree and govern. The convening unions also demand the derogation from the labour reform of the People's Party that PSOE and We can remain vigilant against all their own electoral promises. The cases of Poligal, of New Madeira, of Siemens Gamesa, of Galicia Textile show that the lack of control by governments of business decisions that have such profound social impact is against any principle of prudence, the protection of employment and social cohesion, and that in no case are used to reactivate the economy, but on the contrary, to leave workers and workers at the feet of horses. If this is necessary for the good movement of the economy, it is clear that in this system the economy and social welfare are different and contrary things. In short, we suffer in the district of Ferrol varied and deep problems, all of them derived from political decisions that must be urgent and radically modified if we want -- as we say now -- to bend the curve, if we want to modify a trend that has been constant for years and that deepens in the social and demographic decline of the region. We urge you, Mr. Vice-President, to put your hands on the work without delay and without any excuse. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u89	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, indeed, the Galician People's Party is supporting today's strike in Ferrolterra, just as the Galician Union continues to assume its position of defence of the local workers and workers. And we've been doing this because we've been claiming to the Socialist Government for almost three years a solution for the region, a solution that gives work to the shipyards of the Navantia River, that avoids the closure of the bridge power station without an alternative industrial plan, and that boosts the development of the wind sector and renewable energies and its chain of value in the territory. Finally, Your Honor, we advocate that the Socialist Party put aside the policy of abandoning Galicia since it arrived in Moncloa in June 2018, a situation that unfortunately is only using it to act against Galicia. A policy that, by the way, the Galician Nationalist Block has been advancing from the very first moment. That is why, Mr Fernández, coming to this Parliament to demand what you are unable to demand from your government partners does not seem to be too coherent. It is surprising that now the Galician Nationalist Block is ashamed to support the Government of the Socialist Party as if it were not with you this inaction we are suffering. You know perfectly well that the Galego Nationalist Block is supporting the Government in the Ferrol Town Hall on the side of Socialists and Podemos. He knows perfectly well that the Galego Nationalist Block is ruling in the Crown Deputation on the side of Socialists and Podemos. He knows that the Galego Nationalist Block rules in Spain on the side of Socialists and Podemos. Finally, Mr Fernández, they are ruling alongside socialists and Podemos whenever it suits them. So you're not spectators of what happens, you're an active part of the bad politics that today are performing socialists, populists and independenceists, all sadly against Galicia. So, if Galicia today has 16,500 industrial jobs at risk, many in Ferrolterra, it's because today's Galician Nationalist Block is the most radical of all, and unfortunately it precedes its political interest in the general interests of Galicia. The interests of the Galician Nationalist Block are not industry, they're not interested. All we need to do is take a look at the plan they presented to the Next Generation Funds. You devote three paragraphs to saying that they will develop, and I quote textually: "A set of public policies" -- public policies -- "concerted in the Plan for the Promotion of Technological and Industrial Activity for the Promotion of Industrial Fabrics oriented to the creation of value added and quality employment in the long term." The question all the Greeks ask is what are those policies?, what are the strategic tractor projects proposed by the Nationalist Block Galego?, where will there be public-private collaboration in that plan that you are proposing? That's right, 47 of the 65 proposals match exactly the electoral programme of the Galician Nationalist Block of the year 2020. And besides, Mr. Fernández -- and I recommend a thorough reading of your proposal -- they copy initiatives from the Greek Government, some even not supported by you in this Parliament. And I'm specifically referring to the Glaga Strategy of Genomics and Personal Medicine, the Plan of Transport to Demand for Rural and Periurban Areas, the Centre for Energy Storage, or even the River Plan as well. Even though copying is not right, they know that perfectly, especially when they don't want to recognize the audit of what they're copying, we thank them for doing so, because it proves that somehow in their subconscious the Nationalist Block Galego realizes that the Council of Galicia is working in the right direction. In this sense, Your Honor, I remind you that the German Government is on the side of the workers and workers of Ferrolterra without making any distinctions. We defend their demands, those of all employees and today logically we are also supporting that general strike, and we will continue to support the workers and workers of Ferrolterra. But we're at the end of an abyss and they still don't appear the protagonists, you didn't name them in your intervention. I'm talking about the President of the Government, I'm talking about Vice President Churches, and I'm talking about his Minister of Labour, Yolanda Díaz. The Galego Nationalist Block continues to support Madrid, continues to support Galicia and unfortunately continues to support all those who are currently acting against Galicia. So stop confusing. They know it's not industrial policy here. A very important part of our industry remains strong and resists the crisis. Look at the automotive sector, the conservation sector, the slate sector and even the naval sector. Galicia closed 2020 with more than 20 billion euros in exports and places itself as the fifth community in sales, the second community by positive commercial balance. And also the industrial production index falls less than in the rest of the state. This is, Mr. Fernández, an unfair policy of ecological transition which the Government is currently imposing. An unfair ecological policy that closes the thermal power plants without alternatives, which ignores the demand for a competitive electric price by the hyper-electrointensive industry, which risks the industry of the Greek coast, also of Ence and associated forest chain in Galicia, which does not have a credible plan for renewable energies and is a policy, Mr. Fernández, which forgets that it is the responsibility of the Government to guarantee the workload for all the shipyards of which it holds, whether in shipbuilding, civil and military construction, whether in repair work or in the construction of marine wind equipment. So if Navantia Ferrol and the auxiliary industry in Ferrolterra today have no workload, they have only one responsibility: the socialist government. A Government that was unable to execute the 250 million euros left by the Rajoy Government for the F-110 frigates in 2018, nor was it that in 2019 nor in 2020 that followed with the extended montor budgets. And if they had planned again the 250 million euros, we would be talking, ladies and gentlemen, that by this year 2021 they would have executed EUR 1 billion in the development of the frigates. Nor has the Socialist Government been able to secure new orders nor to charge the logistic storage vessel that we have repeatedly requested from Galicia with the budgets they have left unimplemented. Nor was it able to maintain the commitment to build the dry dyke covered and they are not being able to take forward the only investment they have planned, the subblock workshop. They are all decisions, Mr Fernández, which have the support of the Galego Nationalist Block because the only thing they ask in their agreement with the government is to convert Navantia into an integral complex that supports civil naval construction. However, paradoxes of life, they haven't noticed questioning the performance of the Board despite the fact that we were the ones at the time of pushing the activity back to the yard steps. We did it with the fleet of Pemex, with the marine supply ship, the first Navy contract with Navantia since 2006 and both contracts were just the beginning of a large portfolio of projects for nearly 1,600 million euros. Also with the reopening of the ancient Astano through the marine wind. As for the bridge power station, more than that; for the third time, I think I remember, consecutively, they still do not support the maintenance of the bridge's industrial activity from the Galician Nationalist Block. They didn't admit in the previous plenary that the Nationalist Galego Block is not in favor of its continuity, on the contrary, you want it to be closed as soon as the bridge power station. Well, it's your responsibility, we're certainly not going to accept it. They should probably, instead of telling you here, go to the Bridge and tell the workers themselves. The Union, ladies and gentlemen, is behind the evidence that the use of fuels in that facility is a technically and environmentally viable option, and we will continue to defend that situation. Finally, and finally, it follows the Galego Nationalist Block by acting against Galicia's industrial interests; with its attitude the only thing they defend is that industrial employment in Galicia and the future of thousands of Galician families are spoiled. That will be, Your Honor, your responsibility. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u91	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u92	Very good again. Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr Vice-President, three consecutive times. As always, your answers are delirious, authentic delusions. What a government we have, the truth is that you produce shame outside. A real government, an institution with a real commitment to govern, to lead a country, to make it ever prosper, would never allow the situation of a whole region to reach these extremes. Production sectors with so much marked potential and so important to our country, our strategic productive sectors: the river, the naval, the energy, ruined, reduced to the minimal expression and to the service of foreign interests. This is not the result of the last few years of the PSOE government. When you blame the State Government, bear in mind that you spit up. Did you keep in mind that the previous governments were from the People's Party, or was Mr. Rajoy not from the People's Party? [[Applause]] In any case, in this session of the Greek Parliament, it is up to the German Government to account for what it does and why. It's up to you to account for your government action. It's up to you to explain to the county of Ferrol why the Government of the People's Party has no concern about promising work for Navantia in the election campaign, but as soon as Navantia takes possession, it ceases to be his competition. Let him explain what role the People's Party's Government plays in Navantia's resignation to the marine windman in favor of a friendly company of the People's Party. A friendship which has already been believed on two occasions in this Parliament with the negatives of its party, first in committee and then in full, to stand against this operation. You should explain to him that the company model that you defend for Navantia is different from what the Government of the Spanish State defends if you can explain it. It's up to you to explain your plans for The Bridges, quantify the biofuel project; how many people will occupy this project according to the calculations of the Government of Greece. Why is a technology centre for energy storage, which would be a very important qualitative change for the bridges that BNG proposes, not worth anything, but to set up an office that you propose in your budgets is a wonderful solution for the bridges? Why does the German Government escape the debate about how to put our country's energy resources to the service of the generation of wealth and employment in our country? Why can public companies come from Italy or Norway exploit our resources and we can't have a public energy company that handles the energy transition in this country? [[Applause]] How is it possible for the Fisheries Council to say in this Parliament that it has been waiting for the Government of the State to study the situation of the river without promoting any kind of claim or claim? How can the person responsible for fishing and shellfishing in this country spend 2 years contemplating the impassable death of Ferrol's creek by justifying himself without more than 2 years waiting? [[Applause]] The grave situation in the district of Ferrol, this ruin of our main productive sectors, those sectors that determine the life of so many Greeks and Greeks has only one explanation, a common denominator, which is its renunciation manifests ruling in favour of the people, are other interests that prevail in all their policies and actions. Listening to him causes shame to you, because your speech is the realization that you are a government that denies your country, that denies your people. [[Applause]] And Ferrol's district is one of the best examples. What are the solutions to Ferrol's board? Say it. Getting behind the strike sign won't hide the evidence that you are the main responsible for the emergency situation in Ferrol County. The People's Party and the German Government have a debt that can't be owed to the county of Ferrol. They are committed to the different needs of the region. They are trying to promote solutions, drive real reindustrialization and recovery of our productive sectors. Take account of the country that governs, leads and especially sets aside economic resources. The rest are stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u93	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, unfortunately the Galego Nationalist Block follows in its permanent incoherence in industrial matters. That the Galego Nationalist Block criticises the modification of the alliance between Navantia and Windar to reinforce the burdens of the marine wind is, at least, surprising. Look at your benchmates, maybe you didn't have a chance to see the video you circulated on the networks. I will only read two headlines of the year 2007, government bipartisan, Party Socialist-Nationalist Block Galego: "The Galician Union is taking advantage of a plan of Barreras to buy Navantia-Fene". "The Galego Nationalist Block -- I quote -- calls for Congress's support to privatize Astano." Mr. Fernández, with this curriculum it's very difficult for you now to point out any action and initiative that can give Navantia jobs to its workers. The problem is that Ferrol's laugh, Mr. Fernández, is not dedicated exclusively to civil construction, because for the Galician Nationalist Block is the only activity valid for Navantia; surprising, too. They know that building structures for marine windmills supports about a thousand jobs in Navantia Fene and does nothing to defend them, and they know that forecast is that it will continue to grow, because we're facing a rising market that you're not defending in Galicia. And, Mr. Fernández, we will let you continue in your incoherence, we will continue to work to promote new projects. You tell me about Navantia's address, amazing. It seems that Navantia is a company in Galicia. I remind you that it's a company in the Government of Spain, a public company, and you probably don't want to recognize that, in fact, there are representatives on the Board of Directors who will have something to say. It's surprising that you don't name, for example, the Minister of Labour. A Minister of Ferrol Work who visits Galicia to collect prizes and give interviews, instead of meeting with workers from Navantia, the Bridges and Siemens to support their demands. Surprising, surprising. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Fernández, stop diverting your attention and concentrate at once on what really matters in Navantia, which is a burden of work and investments to keep employment in Ferrolterra. In this sense, I must also acknowledge my surprise at the allusion to the marshmallow of the river. Surprisingly once again as the Galician Nationalist Block aims to invent a new obstacle to the industrial development of Ferrolterra, when it is just what is being demanded. He knows that the Council of the Sea has been driving more than 45 re-engineering projects in the Ferrol River since 2010, investment in addition to 3 million euros. Since 2019 it has been promoting measures to improve seafood banks in a plan that takes account of technical criteria and confrries, about a million euros. Moreover, he is controlling and analysing the river conditions to determine the possibilities for action and the lines of support and in the budgets of 2021 Galician Union ratified his commitment to the Ferrol River with an investment of one and a half million euros to continue working for the seafood of the river. And while we're still waiting, ladies and gentlemen, since September 2018 for the report on the follow-up that the Government delegation announced to the confrereries but which, according to the responses offered at the Senate, still, gentlemen, has not begun. I regret that the Galego Nationalist Block continues to support its government partner and does not give joint solutions either the Socialist Party or the Galician Nationalist Block to the needs of the Marishe in the Ferrol River. We will follow, you continue with your arbitrariness and continue to seek political opportunism when it comes to industrial politics. Unfortunately, you just see the irrelevance in which the Galician Nationalist Block is falling, which can't do anything but put itself behind the banner and not support any kind of initiative. The last example we saw yesterday at the Congress of Deputies, where, I remind you, the Nationalist Block Galego voted for the closure of Ence. That, ladies and gentlemen, will go on your resume for the future. We will continue to defend the position and jobs of Ence. I hope they stop supporting the Socialist Party, which in its vote also voted for the closure of Ence. The Galician Union will continue to defend industrial employment, despite the position of both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u95	Thank you, Vice President. We suspended the session until 4 p.m., 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u96	Good afternoon. If it looks like -- and if it doesn't, if it doesn't -- we're restarting the afternoon session with questions to the Government. Question by Da María González Albert and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances carried out and planned by the Government of Galicia to prevent the relocation of Iberdrola jobs from the district of Valdeorras to Salamanca. To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I could try to explain in this short time that I have what I assumed the mid-century hydraulic boom for Valdeorras, how the construction of hydraulic jumps brought employment and brought instant wealth and brought a conjunctural economic development to the region. You could also try to explain in this time that I've had how this industrial development swept out the best agricultural land, drowned entire populations and forever changed the landscape, climate and resources of our region and conditioned their potential for future development. You could try to explain how those hydraulic constructions led lives with you and also brought a class separation between the people who worked for Salts of the Sil, for their subcontracts and the rest of the citizenship of municipalities like the Street or Petin. And he could also try to explain at this time how the absorption of Saltos del Sil by Iberduero first and by Iberdrola later was assuming a gradual abandonment of the comarca by a company that, for good and for bad, before it was fixed in the territory and little by little was moving away from Valdeorras its decision centres to a moment at the moment when our region is only a number within the management of a multinational that has neither their attention nor their interest fixed in Galicia. But, of course, if I try to contextualize all of this, you might lose the focus of the current serious problem: the imminent closure of the Sil Cunca Operations Control Center, which will soon take effect and which is the last blow from Iberdrola to Valdeorras. You know very well that two years ago the BNG brought an initiative to this Parliament, which was adopted at its moment unanimously by the groups, and that among its points of agreement it demanded that the Board go to the Iberdrola Directorate to demand the maintenance of the jobs and the brake on the progressive dismantling of the services in the Greek territory. Since then, the South Korean society has repeatedly manifested itself against this relocation which the company aims to call reorganization and which means to our region the loss of a total of 20 jobs in the street. But I'm telling you more: beyond that, this relocation has the symbolic weight of the ultimate loss of what was a factor of wealth and well-being for most of the city's citizenship. Iberdrola, as you know, is currently exploding a total of nearly 2,500 megawatts of power in Galicia, between hydraulics, pumping and wind, and it continues to process new hydroelectric and wind installations in the country as well. They just announced a record profit of 3,600 million euros in 2020, 4.2% more than in 2019, and we believe it's not admissible. It's not acceptable and it turns out, in addition, an obscenity that Galliza continues to feed his business in an extraordinary way, and this company pays by eliminating jobs to take him to the land of his president. I wonder if you, as the highest industrial authority in our country, have done any performances, what actions you've done so far before the company and what you're going to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u99	...this time to avoid this relocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. González Albert. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. González Albert, I thank you for your concern -- which is also our concern -- for the workers who work at the center of street operations and also for the set of workers who develop their activity at Iberdrola's own office on the street, and logically I don't think it's a reason, in any case, to generate controversy between the Nationalist Block of Wales and this Government, nor is it a reason, in any case, for political confrontation. I think the goal is that we can make a common defense of the situation of the workers and work together, logically as well, not only for finding a solution to the workers, but also for working for the future and, therefore, for opening new opportunities in both the Comarca de Valdeorras and concretely also in the Street. You were referring to the agreement approved two years ago in this Parliament, and you know perfectly well that we have complied with that agreement, and today we are keeping that commitment, of course, with employment in the villages of Sil, and that's why Iberdrola's office in the Street hasn't closed in 2019, and it's not going to close now either. And that's why for a few months now this office has been coordinating all the operations and maintenance of ground wind and photovoltaics in Galicia and seven other autonomous communities: Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, La Rioxa, Navarra, Aragon and Catalonia, and, as you know, it's an office that employs 40 workers in the locality. However, I clearly tell you that the Galician Council does not agree with the Treaty of the Operations Centre, that the Government, of course, is advocating that Iberdrola can give a concrete solution to the eight workers who are currently being affected by Iberdrola's decision and, therefore, we will continue to demand that solution by Iberdrola. We will defend the situation of the eight workers who currently have no solution, we will defend the jobs of the 40 workers who keep their jobs in the Iberdrola office on the street, just as we will defend the employment of the 214 people who make up the Iberdrola staff in Galicia, of which about 1,000 are working in Ferrolterra thanks to the company's last two marine wind projects. So we'll keep working -- as I said -- also in the future. I believe that this is our responsibility, that we will continue to work and, of course, we will seek concrete solutions for these eight workers and we will continue to open these new opportunities through the development of the energy transition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u103	Well, I appreciate your tone, Counselor, and we would ask you to look up on this subject and not just act like territorial delegates from the company in our country. I tell you if you want to finish this session, because in two minutes it won't give me time, which is not eight jobs that are lost on the street, it's 20; it's true that there are people who are going to retire, they're going to retire, they're going to lose the category of work to stay on the street, but the fact is that they lose a total of 20 jobs that are qualified in our region that they're not going to return. There are options; besides, there are the shadow control centers, why can't the current COC-Sil control center the shadow control center of the new center in Salamanca? This morning my colleague Luís Bará was talking about the importance of the symbols, I told him before, Iberdrola is a symbol for The Street, the closing of the COC is important, first for the irreparable loss of jobs, it is true, but, far beyond that, it is supposed to sink Valdeorras a little more at the well of abandonment to which he is being subjected by the two governments that rule it, the national government and the state government. They keep us away from the new main channels of communication, they close our train stations, they're dismantling our health, we're suffering from a very serious deindustrialization process that aggravates the chronic depopulation that is suffering from comarcism because of the lack of alternatives to the future. I, as a matter of fact, tell you that in the last 40 years Valdeorras has lost 26.33% of the population, this is a real barbarity; that today there are only 252 high-powered industries in Valdeorras and only 12 of them have more than 50 employees, so that you can do a mental framework than the loss of these 20 jobs. I repeat to you that, if you like, I'll give you the real data beyond the company speech that talks about this relocation as if it had nothing to do with it, but for Valdeorras, of course, it's a real disgrace. I ask you to bet on an energy and economic policy that does not condemn death to the progress of the district of Valdeorras, that they work for the COC-Sil to continue active, and that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u105	...and that, ultimately, they exercise their powers. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. González Albert. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president, Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry that the Galego Nationalist Block again insists on a speech in which they try to defend workers and others not, and I think in that speech, of course, we're not going to agree anymore. We will agree in the defense of the eight workers who are affected by the reorganization of the Street Operations Centre and, therefore, the Galician Union will continue to demand Iberdrola a commitment to find a consensus solution with those workers who are not in line with the transfer, that is our goal, that is our demand for Iberdrola, and we will continue to demand that the company be able to establish a solution for these eight workers. But what is not acceptable is that you tell me about the situation of the district of Valdeorras and, therefore, the Nationalist Block Galego, on the one hand, intends to find opportunities and solutions and on the other, if you are denying the industrial development of the district of Valdeorras. I am very sorry that the Galego Nationalist Block, in that speech that has a double reading, is putting obstacles to the development of the wind sector and the mining sector in Valdeorras. You know perfectly well that the Galego Nationalist Block is what you're asking the Galician Union to refuse the processing of all wind projects, that's the position of the Galego Nationalist Block in the field of renewables development. Projects, Your Honor, which, in the case of fulfilling all environmental, urban and technical guarantees, may assume jobs and wealth for this area. So once again the Galician Nationalist Block defends some workers and not others. But we pass, if you like, the mining, and we meet again with that double speech of the Galician Nationalist Block that applies to this sector. He knows that 26% of Valdeorras' economy depends on the slate and that it is an essential source of employment in this region. He knows perfectly well about the Galician Nationalist Block and yet the Block continues to put obstacles to the development of this sector, constantly questioning the development of this activity. And therefore, in this context, Your Honor, it's very difficult to speak seriously to the Galician Nationalist Block on Industrial Policy. When you clarify yourself and have a specific country proposal to develop the strategic and priority sectors that you want to limit your development, because we can certainly have a debate on content, and in the meantime the Nationalist Block of Wales continues to defend workers yes and no. I'm sorry that's your position on industrial policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on delays in the adoption of grants granted under the Economic Reactivation Plan programmes To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u109	Good afternoon. In the Dog of June 18, 2020, the resolution establishing the bases for access to help and digitisation projects to deal with the situation generated by the coward-19, the so-called Cheques Digitization program, was published. This text proposes a set of subsidisable, simple, fast-resolution projects by means of non-competitive competition, immediate execution and adaptation oriented to covid-19, according to the text itself. A programme which subsidizes 80% of the expenditure on digitisation projects ranging from EUR 1,500 to EUR 12,000, directed at microenterprises that develop their activity in the hospitality, tourism, retail trade, hairdressing, aesthetics and others; sectors especially affected by the consequences of the cap 19 that need this digital adaptation in order to continue to develop their activity in these pandemic times; sectors that, due to the necessary restrictive measures of movement and openness, have been drastically reduced to invoicing, which since the first months of the alarm state has caused one of the main problems they have endured and they have been suffering to be the lack of liquidity. Even so, these sectors have made an important economic effort to create digital structures that allow them to continue working in this typical situation, and many have embraced the Cheques Digitization Programme. Despite the prior disbursement of project costs, they applied for this grant, waiting for an early arrival of the aid, since Article 17 of the bases established that the 50% increase in the aid amount would be made in advance once granted and the remaining amount would be paid once the Igape considered the project to be justified. Requests that recipients hastened to carry out in many cases already in August, for it is a call in a non-competitive competition regime, i.e. by order of entry, and to avoid the possible exhaustion of credit. Problem: that those who applied for aid in July and August, presenting in most cases complete and justified projects, did not receive from the Igape resolution granting the grant until the month of November. And then they still had to wait until the last days of December so that the Igape would pay 50 percent of the grant. That is, regardless of the time they asked for the aid, they did not receive any amount until the end of December, and the remaining amount, another 50%, still today and today, was not received by their recipients, so in most cases the aid applicants granted took four months to receive the 50% advance of the grant and all of them today are waiting to be able to collect the remaining 50%. With which Igape, Junta, it takes at least seven months to get to the pocket of micro-enterprises, tourism, retail trade and you'd furthest the aid recognized in many cases in the summer of last year. And, given the dramatic situation in these sectors asphyxiated by the lack of liquidity, lack of direct assistance for 9 months, that delay of the Igape, should be insatiable by a German Government to which his mouth is filled talking about his agility and good management. That is why we are asking the question to the Government of Greece: are these aids articulated within the framework of the programmes of the Reactivation Plan coming to their recipients with the speed they must and within the time limits set in their bases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president, Economics Advisor, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u111	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Pérez, I would like to thank you for your interest in the Galego Nationalist Block for the actions that Vice President Second launched in 2020 under the Reactivation Plan. Indeed, EUR 350 million, to bring up funding of EUR 180 million to the Italian production fabric and also to provide direct aid for more than EUR 170 million, an important effort of the board as a whole, which led it to receive about 35,000 requests for support. And in this context also of the Reactivation Plan, Igape's efforts were made to develop a new program, the Igape Response Program, which allowed 943 self-employed, micro- and small and medium-sized enterprises to be accompanied by various measures to adapt to the covid. So let me use this forum to thank the commitment and professionalism of our staff, the staff of the Second Vice President and the Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Council, for trying to provide the best possible answer, an answer that was exceptional, logically to meet an equally exceptional situation. You're telling me about the Igape; indeed, of this total of applications, Your Honor, nearly 21,900 requests for help and payment were processed by the Igape. This data in 2019 was 3,877 files. Igape increased by more than 400% the entire activity in 2020 compared to 2019, which was logically an important effort to solve all these aids, which is logically solving. And you talk to me in that context of the Digital Check. In fact, Digital Check carries with it a 50% advance at the time of resolution, without requiring, lordship, guarantees to facilitate investment in digitisation projects. And that advance, Mr. Pérez, paid the 2,393 beneficiaries of this aid. And now Igape is working to complete the payments for, once all the documentation is reviewed, because we're talking about an investment and therefore we have to check the justification for those investments. We will continue to develop, work intensively, because the aim of the Galician Union is to give that answer both to the autonomous and to small and medium-sized enterprises, and, together with the rescue plan, we will continue to develop these aids, but I think the clear effort to be able to respond to these requests and that they have arrived is very evident on the part of the Igape in this case. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the reply, Mr. Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u113	Mr. Conde, self-criticism and humility of Mr. Feijóo's government, I already see that absolute zero. In the aid regulatory bases, in the introduction of the articulation it is said that "for the health emergency situation -- and I read textually -- economic agents will have new needs and priorities, they will have to adapt to the new reality with the objective of continuing to operate, and one of the main pathways will be digitization, which in many cases acquires an emergency character", text that literally proposes "a set of subsidisable projects typified, simple, quick resolution through non-competitive competition, immediate execution and oriented to adaptation to covid-19. Non-competitive competition is the mechanism that allows subsidisable projects to be dealt with quickly." -- that's all textual --. And the fourth point of the resolution states that "the maximum time limit for resolving and notifying the resolution will be 30 working days from the date of submission of the aid application." A program that is born, taking care of its literal, to articulate urgent and agile aids so that it can continue to work, and those aids were neither urgent nor skillful. Eight months to collect them can't be considered urgent or agile. And Igape's positive resolution deadlines have been breached and the aid's perception has been delayed. Urgency and agility which you had the Board to approve of Galicia's project of administrative simplification and economic reactivation, which create an abusive legal framework that favours large investment funds and large oligopolies to promote genuine pelts going over the interests of local communities and neighbourhood. Do you know what will be the duration of administrative processing for a wind project in Galicia in the wake of the law of depredation bis? 12 months, in the words of the spokesperson for the PP Parliamentary Group at Commission 3rd on 5 February. How long will it take the owner of a retail store to have the scan aid in his pocket? minimum, minimum, at least 8 months, which shows to the clarity that the Union is agile to favour large business projects, in many cases with negative effects and impact on the territory, but is not as agile to support the sectors most affected by the pandemic. Given the recipient's situation, it took eight months or more to collect the total grant, when they had to delay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u115	... project cost, clearly shows the lack of sensitivity and commitment of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pérez, allow me to move an absolute zero into your objectivity. [[Laughter]] I am sorry that you come here to this Parliament to try to transfer concerns, concerns about the productive fabric, rather than, indeed, transfer that confidence that we are trying to bring. I think, when you tell me that this government has no self-criticism, this government doesn't... I haven't done any evaluation, I'll transfer data, I'll transfer data. You immediately started talking about oligopolies, that's the sectarian discourse of the Galego Nationalist Block, which immediately starts talking about large oligopolies and black hands, and so on. No, look, I give you the data, and the data, Mr. Pérez, are that in 2019 4,000 aids were processed in the Igape, which is about half the files that are processed in the Igape. In 2020 -- I repeat the data --, 21,800 files. So there's an effort there that I understand that you don't know how to value, just as you don't know how to value that, in fact, the order of help of the Digital Check had an absolute success, directly proportional to your absolute zero in your objectivity, because it was 2,393 files that, in fact, all of them received 50% of the advance, which is enabling them to develop this investment, and logically we're going to solve the file by file, because you know that these files are investments and therefore we have to check that it has been done, that it has been developed as it marks the order. So, Mr. Pérez, the Igape is giving that answer, the advances have been paid in full and therefore the Igape is where it has to be: next to the productive tissue, developing new aids and, above all, in this pandemic context. Just as we are now attending, in this case, the hostel, with the order of terraces, and we will continue to develop new aids. So I think in that context, these worries that you want to move, because they actually don't help. I think the Galego Nationalist Block should certainly focus a little bit on the goals that we have moved as a country, to meet the needs of the productive tissue, and surely that way you would be adding what you are asking the Greeks, which is working together to deal with this pandemic not only health, but also economic. Unfortunately, the Galician Nationalist Block is looking back, in this case, at the needs of the Greeks and our productive tissue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Juan Carlos Francis Rivera and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures and actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to develop the sectoral project of the Tamagos Business Park in Verín To put the question, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u119	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counsellor, and good afternoon to all and to all Members. Indeed, from 2005 to 2008, it was developed in the County of Monterrey, in the Town Hall of Verín, an idea, which is to provide that comarca with a quality industrial ground equipment, well connected, with the A-52 highway, with the highway connecting Verín with Keys, the A-75, an area, finally, of good location and therefore good connection with both Madrid and Vigo as well as Portugal. In 2009 the People's Party wins -- it's obvious -- and in 2011 the Council of Government of Galicia approves a sectoral project to develop this industrial polygon, a polygon that contemplated its development in several phases: In the first phase, the development is approximately 290,000 metres away, devoting itself to the clearly industrial soil about 170,000 meters, a total surface area of 127 hectares, 127 hectares occupied by the entire industrial polygon, but today only 75% of that area is still in the hands of the Union as a result of the agreement, of mutual agreement with the owners, pending even expropriation of 25% of that surface. And today, 2021, 10 years ago, after the Board of Trustees approved the development of this basic and fundamental equipment for the development of a region like Monterrey, the Council of Galicia has done absolutely nothing. Today it is evident that the Tamagos polygon is nothing more than an abandoned mountain, full of woods, full of slaughter, and, at the moment, without any prospect of its development, except that you here today have some beginning to do so. For Monterrey district -- you know it -- it's an absolutely strategic, fundamental, developmental action, since, despite the fact that there's another industrial polygon, this region today lacks industrial soil, industrial soil, according to which I have just commented. There has been an initiative from the Town Hall to develop, according to agreements with the Galician Union, this polygon. As of today, since the year 2016 when the talks started, no initiative in that regard has yet failed at all. And we understand that in a situation like this, Junta has to act, so we ask through this question to tell us what measures it is going to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u121	...take Join to resolve the Tamagos polygon. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u122	Thank you very much. You have the word Environmental Counsellor, Territory and Housing, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I thank Mr Rivera for asking me this question and, above all, if I can be useful for the answer to be clear. This is the same question and it will be the same answer that was formulated just three weeks ago, in particular I think it was on February 15 in the 3rd Commission, in which I hope the Director General of the Galego da Vivenda Institute and Solo had clarified certain situations, because he also tells me that, apart from giving an answer, he also had an opportunity to exchange impressions. I arrived on February 22nd to Verín to announce a polygon in Paz, the future composting plant of Sogama. From Junta we know the importance and strategic position of Verín, and that's why we chose it for the development of this great project, vital for the municipality, but especially vital for the comarca itself. This will entail an investment of 5.5 million euros, the creation of 10 direct jobs and places Verín as an epicenter of the province in the composting by producing 1,500 tons of composting and certificates of quality. In that act I was with the mayor and, of course, we talked about the situation of the business ground and also about his future. And yet, and since it can't be otherwise, I have to tell you that if there is business soil available in Verín and therefore for its region and that Verín has two business areas perfectly delimited through the Sectoral Plan for Management of Business Areas in Galicia. One is Peace, the place we're going to drive, and one of the impulses is through the positioning of this plant of last generation bioresidues; and that of Tamagos, to which you refer. In the case of peace it has two phases. The first phase is an area of 70,000 square meters, of which 10,000 square meters are available. And you're saying no, because I already tell you yes. This phase has all the services and can cover the existing demand, I hope there will be more demand and I hope that the momentum it is receiving through the Environmental Council is a tractor project so that waste is not a problem, but an opportunity and, therefore, more companies in this polygon. Together with this, we have to tell you that we made an important bet with a bonus of up to 50%, and this means that right now the square meter in this polygon is going to be 34 euros, compared to the 68 initials. But in peace there is a second phase, a second phase with 81,000 square meters, of which profitable are 55,000, an extension that, if there is demand, believes that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u124	Thank you very much... thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u125	...we'd react quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u126	Thank you. Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u127	Yes, thank you. I very much appreciate that, indeed, the composting plant has installed in Verín and, of course, it is to thank you; it creates jobs that are needed in that region, but I was asking you another absolutely different question. The policy of peace -- and you know it, because they explained it to you and also because you've been there -- doesn't meet the conditions right now so that no company in the future will settle there. You're talking about an unoccupied 10,000 yards left and I have here the plan, it would actually be 3 plots of 2,000 meters each. Well, let's suppose it's 9,000. I think the dimension of what we're talking about has nothing to do with the peace polygon, we're talking about developing a comarca and equipping it with well located ground equipment at the foot of A-52, at the foot of A-75. Because the polygon of Peace, Counselor, and you know it's a flood zone and I think that no one today would build your house in a flood zone and less a businessman who bets your money I suppose he won't make that kind of investment. You were talking about the soil being bountiful. It's relatively fine, because, indeed, you're talking about 34 euros/m2, but as you well know, as a result of the flood rate of the plots, you have to raise it to the side of the vial and, therefore, demand additional fillings and spending by all the entrepreneurs, which prevents any development of a company in that polygon. In view of this situation, we invite the Galician Union and do so honestly to consider what citizens are looking at, the municipalities, especially those of Verín, but also the entrepreneurs, who develop the Tamagos Polygon as a real opportunity to develop a region that is missing from it, a region that is perfectly located and needs soil...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u129	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u131	Thank you, President. Well, tell him, since Galician Union we've had the hand held to all the municipalities that want to develop business alone. But the conditions that we have to put on the table are that we can't invest if there's no demand, and we have perfectly qualified the ground, and we have two perfectly defined business areas. We have availability at this time of parcels that are urbanized. If you are going to settle through Sogama a company, what is the difficulty that may have the settlement of other types of companies? But apart from that, we can extend in the same area to 81,000 square meters. What we can't do, Mr. Rivera, is what was done during the bipartite, which is that you bought yourself the scratch, in an uncontinuous way, which ends up being a brew at times, in the best of cases, with total and absolute abandonment, because there is no demand and because there is not a single service. So we'll expand where there's demand and put the services on the table. On the other hand, we've been talking to the Town Hall. At no time did we transfer any analysis of the demand nor execution deadlines nor do we believe the budgetary availability, because you know that the City Council's claim was to develop it, to which we would tend our hand, of course, to be able to do it, but we have to sign an agreement and every time we take a step forward the mayor takes a step back. So without certainty it's impossible to keep moving on in this field. On the other hand, you call my attention to the following, because the mayor is right that he told me he wanted to talk about the polygon but specifically about the pole of Peace not the polygon of Tamagos. And so there's a meeting that moved us on March 5, which is with an end, and that end is the construction of a circle for the polygon of peace that improves its communication, which, in fact, has a communication problem with A-52, and avoids the passage of heavy vehicles through the center of the village, which, if I can, I will assist, of course, but, if not, will be the director of the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo. That's why there's a demand from the mayor, demand that we study, that we start up, and there's an agreement on the table; the moment he gives us the necessary justification, we'll act like we're doing in the rest of Galicia, but to do so so that after he's abandoned doesn't make sense and what if I can tell him is that there's space enabled and, if not, you can urbanize with all the guarantees and in a very small period of time to settle down the industries that so they want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u132	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u134	Thank you very much. Question by Da María Sol Díaz Mouteira and six other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the tools made available to public administrations and citizens in the Galician Landscape Guidelines to facilitate the use and use of the territory and preservation of the Greek landscape To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u135	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counsellor, thank you for accompanying us this afternoon in the plenary session to answer or answer this question from the People's Parliamentary Group. Two weeks ago, the landscape guidelines came into force, the first guidelines of the Galician landscape, specifically last February 20, after a long and comprehensive processing that began there by 2016, guidelines that have just become a more protection tool of the landscape, one of the most important things we have in our community and which certainly distinguishes us most. To highlight the framework of the broad consensus in which they were born, thanks to a process in which both society and the agents involved participated, it becomes clear that landscapes are part of what we are as a society of the present and also of the future, because the quality of the landscape is a perfect indicator of the degree of social development, and its good management and management contribute to improving the competitiveness of the territory. In the last few years, months and even days, Galicia and its landscape are in a state of bliss. We've reached milestones of those we hope you'll find out, Counselor. Milestones from the Galician Union and from the council office you represent, have come to form the appropriate framework for the protection, management and management of landscapes throughout the territory of Galicia, making it compatible with the use and use of the territory with the preservation and improvement of the landscape. Galicia thus consolidates its position as one of the reference regions and the vanguard in matter thanks to the work initiated by the self-government, the last decade in which the protection of the landscape is becoming an essential and central issue in its action. We therefore have a complete, consistent document that includes mandatory rules for the new planning instruments and a series of generic recommendations that will be guidance and that will in no case cost the citizen economically. Counsellor, the best way to understand these rules and recommendations, the best way that the Greeks and the Greeks can or can understand the benefit that these new landscape guidelines will add to those projects and initiatives that develop around them with that added landscape value is by answering this question that since the Popular Parliamentary Group step to formulate it. Could you, Counsellor, quote examples of how these guidelines will affect the practice, day by day, in our landscape? Will they somehow affect infrastructures, natural spaces and channels of communication? Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u137	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you, Mrs. Díaz, for also giving me the opportunity to value what we all know, which is our landscape. It's an issue of identity, but it's something we assume where we live, where we are, and that we've also reached a very important degree; there's no more to see the statistics when they visit us or visit us all those who wanted it and the landscape was there as primal, apart from gastronomy. But we must achieve the degree of excellence and, in order to achieve that degree of excellence, we must continue to contribute to its protection, which is an essential, central and also cross-cutting issue by the Government of the Union. We've been working for over a decade now, we've acquired commitments and the result is in sight. We've just approved the Landscape Guidelines, which came into force last month, in February, which assume one before and one after in the protection of the landscape and which make Galicia unique. And indeed, there was a very important degree of consensus, there was a lot of contribution, we spent a lot of time on it, and the results are a number of rules and a number of recommendations. It was a decade of great milestones the Landscape Catalogue, the Galician Landscape Guide, the Landscape Law Regulations and we launched the first pacts through the landscape. The landscape doesn't have ideology, the landscape has yellow and yellow. And they were the first pacts of the landscape, for example, in Sardinia-Cotobade and so we kept expanding. What do we want? To support the protection of the landscape with economic development. We can't understand the landscape if there's a abandonment; in the end it would also be a abandonment of the landscape. We are visiting the various municipalities to talk about the application of guidelines and the implications that the municipalities have to have as well; by the director of the Institute of Territorial Studies has already met with 32 municipalities, also with their technicians, and it must be said that the application of these guidelines, apart from this collaboration, requires an understanding and makes people understand that the guidelines of the landscape is not a cost for citizenship, but it is a benefit for citizenship. Right now and from the entry into force, the guidelines must be integrated into any plan, program or project that takes place in the territory of our community. So territorial planning instruments must always take into account landscape values in all their phases: in design, development and also in their execution. Examples we could put many and put 3 examples. Energy infrastructures, stretched and networks. They must be buried in new developments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u138	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u139	...for example. And we could...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u140	In the second round you can continue. [[Applause]] For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u141	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. I hope that this second part will have the opportunity to come up with more of these examples which are very significant to understand how these guidelines will influence us in our day to day. What is clear and made clear also in your answer is that Galicia advances that step further on the road started by Junta a decade ago to protect the landscape. An important step is taken with these guidelines, it is founded and complements the landscape catalogue and its scope, of course, to the whole territory of Galicia. From his words it is deduced that it is a work of all, of all, not only of public administrations, but of that necessary implication and role that the councils will play in the application of the guidelines as well. From the Galician Junta, from the Environmental Council, it works to put in place the right framework for the protection and quality of the landscape, characterized above all by the amount of variety of values and singularities. An orderly and quality landscape directly affects a community, from an economic, tourist, environmental, cultural point of view, and, as it does not, it also defines us as a territory. We must continue to move forward along this path, both through modern, effective and efficient regulations, and to deepen our awareness. So, Counselor, I'd like you to continue to comment on one more example, as well as you'll allow us this new tool. And, to finish, there's a time when I said these are good moments for the landscape. At the last board of assembly, held last Thursday, the strategic plan of the Greek landscape has just been approved, which will guide the action of the landscape of Galicia over the next four years, with an investment of 40 million. The year 2021 will be a year marked by landscape and its protection. Counsellor, in time you could also answer us as to what this strategic landscape plan consists of and what its general objectives are. Thank you for your answer, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. For the Government's reply, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u143	Thank you, President. I started with an example, and I can say something else; for example, from the entry into force of the Landscape Guidelines, only the opening of canisters, mines, if it is justified and has no impact on areas of special landscape interest, setting limits, such as eucalyptus planting in these areas. On the other hand, the obligation to withdraw the posters and the completion of public works or performances is established to prevent their deterioration within what is the landscape itself. Other examples of protected spaces: because regeneration is prioritized in those areas that have suffered some aggression, such as fires or greenery as well. On the other hand, the elimination of invasive species is another objective that is determined by the landscape guidelines. What does this tool allow? On the one hand integrate, preserve, protect, but also improve. We need to continue to improve and, in order to further improve, apart from that normative corpus that we have already finished, we have a strategy, the landscape strategy for the next four years, which was adopted at the Board last week and which is going to involve an investment of 40 million euros, 40 million euros in action, measures and programmes. What we want to do is focus on the quality of the landscapes, on those most inhabited places, such as the residential contours, where most of the Greeks live, also in natural spaces, the most comprehensive, passing through the agrarian landscapes, and also in the coastal areas. Pursuing five fundamental goals, which is to establish and execute a working methodology where we qualify ourselves. On the other hand, develop, and update the instruments for protection the management and management of the landscape. Perform concrete actions in the territory, measures to protect, enhance and improve landscapes, and advance in inter-administrative consultation and collaboration, which is fundamental in the area of landscape. And with whom? With the municipalities, also with the deputies, which is fundamental. And to train, raise awareness, and educate in the field of landscape. To that end, we put 40 million euros on the table, and among them we put in place a plan to control the feism and eliminate it in Galicia with the proposal of assistance to individuals, but you also help local entities to eliminate and correct landscape impacts whose first call we will make this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u144	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the knowledge by the Government of Greece of the acquisition by the Central Government of a new commitment to economic support for the celebration of the biennium Xacobeo 2021-2022 To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Verea Fraiz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u145	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, this parliamentary group was aware that last week, Thursday, there was a meeting between the General Administration of the State and the representatives of tourism in the autonomous communities, a meeting which was in principle for the Government of Pedro Sánchez to present his plan for Xacobeo, a meeting that left this parliamentary group terribly concerned, we imagine that also the Government of the Union of Galicia, a meeting that was convened in haste, without preparation, that the development of the meeting itself was, at least, strange or curious, because there was no need for reply or opportunity to speak to the autonomous communities. And, as I said before, with disappointing or again disappointing conclusions without any concrete commitment to support Xacobeo. The Galician Union has also declared, this parliamentary group, its political support for the biennium Xacobeo 21-22, political support which, in addition, translates or reflects on budgetary support, those more than 80 million euros that are already in force in the general budgets of the autonomous community. And, therefore, a political commitment, an institutional commitment which, as it must be, has its consequence in concrete economic measures. A Jacobabeo who is being difficult, which is being different, a Jacobabeo who will remain uncertain and will undoubtedly need all of our flexibility, all of our ability to adapt to the health measures at every moment, but that we will all undoubtedly agree that we all want the best Xacobeo possible within the situation in which we find ourselves. And for that, the commitment not only to the Galician Union, but also to the rest of the administrations, to the local administration and, of course, to the general government of the state. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, the question of this parliamentary group is whether the Government of Galicia has any concrete commitment, a new budget departure or a specific economic line for the support of the Holy Year Compostelán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. Mr. Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism, Mr. Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Verea, we all want the best Xacobeo possible. I am convinced that also the Central Government, and not just because it will start from the basis that what is good for Galicia is good also for the rest of Spain, but because in the case of Xacobeo this is true, because fortunately, with the development it has had in recent years, the Xacobeo transcends Galicia, it is clear that where it most affects our autonomous community, but transcends from our territory and from then on reaches the rest of autonomous communities, and surely to many other countries which also benefit directly or indirectly from what Xacobeo is supposed to mean. So he was called to be, and he has to remain -- we're working for that -- one of the engines of Galicia's post-covid reactivation and, I insist, many other territories. We speak of this Jacobean decade, so long waiting, eleven years that there was new Xacobeo, now we have the opportunity of an extended Jacobean one more year and therefore we have to take advantage of it. I think we've made the necessary forecasts since the Galician Union and we're doing them. There are 85, almost 86 million euros recorded in the budgets if we add the 62 that are directly in the Vice-Presidentship First plus the appropriations that have other councils also directly linked to the Jacobean. And we're doing what I think is right now. The most important thing is that it's the possibility that pilgrims arrive while mobility is restricted, while all the restrictions deriving from the pandemic, but you can earn a lot of time, first of all by trying to -- I think we're getting it all ready; I'm talking about physical installations, shelters, the state of the roads, setting up many points that were in need of intervention and, at the same time, in the formation of all those who are going to accommodate the pilgrims when they start arriving, I'm talking about training related to the new health situation, i.e. they're absolutely ready to know what they have to do in case some covid related incidence has occurred and also in promotion, of course, there's all a plan designed to promote the Jacobbeo which is logically at the expense of when it's more convenient to put it in place that they can start to enter the pilgrims and, therefore, there must be involved in that moment further promotion. The insurance related to the coward, the insurance of the coronavirus that we set in motion pioneering at the moment has a lot to do with that, and its dissemination to get to know and be a more attractive one. Finally, we have everything prepared and what we need is the support of the State. Now I will try to speak in the reply to this question, of which it was that meeting, which we hope will be the support of the State and which we hope will be the implication that without any doubt it will have to produce the Central Government not only for Galicia's interest, but for the interest of all Spain as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u149	Thank you, Vice President. There are already many debates in this House and also in committee about the lack of real commitment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to Jacob. We can remember the House's request for the reduction of the tourist VAT, we can also remember the request for specific departures in the general state budget. Proposals that have gone forward without the support of the PSdeG Parliamentary Group and, of course, a conclusion to which this parliamentary group has already been able to explain here is that, if there is no rational explanation why Xacobeo is not supported when it is the largest national tourist event by the General Government of the State, because we conclude that it is a political decision, because this event is developing in Galicia, which is an autonomous community governed by the PPdeG. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for your commitment to Xacobeo, which is ultimately the commitment to the interests of Galicia and also of the city of Santiago, and as you said or anticipated, these days, I think it was exciting, you could have a specific meeting with the Secretary of State to examine often the achievements, if any, of aid or timelines for this state aid to Jamesbeo and the minutes you have so we would like to know the conclusions of those meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs Verea. The President-in-Office, Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor for the Government's replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 2018, the current president, Pedro Sánchez, recently appointed the current president of the Government, publicly expressed his commitment already to Xacobeo and were still missing two years, and that made us think a lot of hope and thank him and we welcome him and make ourselves available for any realization, any data or collaboration that the Central Government wanted to support the Xacobeo, which we knew would take place only two years later. But the fact is that two years have passed and there has been absolutely nothing of it, it would not be for not insisting on it, it would not really be because in this House many initiatives have been brought, inexplicably not supported by the Socialist Party, which seems to have no interest in Galicia and which seems to him the central government is more interested in supporting the Xacobeo than the Socialist Group of this House. We have to keep working to make that support come true and keep insisting. I believe that my success of this insistence was called upon by the call-; the truth is that we have said it directly directly, I have sent a letter to the Secretary of State Secretary of Tourism, who was the summonitant, difficult to understand that, after so long time waiting for that express commitment from the central government, if they take off last week, on Tuesday, it is that we have said it directly, I sent a letter to the Secretary of State Secretary of Tourism, which was the caller, difficult to understand that, after so long long waiting for that express commitment from the central government, if they took off last week, Tuesday, with a call to explain to us the Xacobeo National Tourism Plan -- this was called -- this was -- without any advance notice, without any prior notice, without any knowledge, a call of Tuesday's to Thursday, the Thursday in addition to the Central Government of Central Government, in addition to Thursday, in addition to Thursday, the Thursday, the Thursday Thursday of Thursday, the Thursday, Thursday of Tuesday, the Thursday of Thursday, the Thursday, the Thursday in addition to the Thursday, the Thursday of the Thursday, the Thursday of 14 Sheets, I told us were called 14 sheet, I could not concrete reply, I could not specifically, but yesterday, I could not specifically the President, but the President of the President, but the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the central government, all, all, all, but the day, all, all, all, all, but all, but all, but all, but all, but all, but the Gal was explained to the Gal was not only, but not only, but not only, but not only, but not only, but not only, but the entire Gal was made, but the entire audience of the entire Gal was not to the entire audience of the entire, but to the entire audience of the entire audience of the entire audience of the rest of the rest of all, but to the entire of all, to the rest of the communities of the entire communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of the communities of communities of the communities of communities of communities of communities of the entire, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond, and beyond has has has has has has has has I had occasion, as you recall, to have a meeting that was already scheduled earlier with the Secretary of State of Tourism this week, and logically the first thing I asked you was that it was necessary to make this happen as soon as possible. What he told us is that actually before summer, and therefore we have to trust this, and we have to take the floor and give him again, despite his background, a vote of confidence to the central government before summer, and before summer there will be an exact realization of budget splits and commitments to which the central government is contributing to the celebration of the Xacobeo. I don't want to think that the extension of Xacobeo didn't happen, because if we weren't talking about the June coup of the Year of Xacobeo, the Central Government still thinks about how it has to compromise with a tourist event that recognises not only in Galicia, but in the rest of Spain. We wait for this realization, we're going to give you a vote of confidence, the background isn't good, but what we're interested in is that there's a commitment. In three months, we'll talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question to the Government, which is a change in the agenda. Question by da Paula Prado del Río and nine other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the balance made by the Government of Greece of its offer to local authorities for the assumption of the management of municipal aid to housing, micro-enterprises and self-government in order to achieve greater simplification and agility To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Paz Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, we are in a week marked, in which two significant ephemerals will be held within a few hours, one year from that 12 March when President Feijóo announced the health alert and the suspension of school activity in Galicia, and 24 hours later the announcement by President Sánchez announcing the state of alarm that would enter into force on 15 March. It's the right time to evaluate what happened during these 12 months, to do an analysis of the performance of each one to try to correct possible errors, which I'm sure we all do, and also to deepen on the facts, that in the case of the Galician Board, I must say to the trial of this group, there were many, judgments that shared the Greeks. A year of pandemic that took a very high price on lives, both outside our borders and in our country, where, to the shame of all, we still don't know what the real number of women and men victims of the pandemic, the 70,000 who recognize the Government, the 83,000 of the Momo reports prepared by the Government, or the more than 100,000 who estimate the INE, dependent on the Government. One year from the beginning of a confinement that would last 98 days, in which the closure of any economic activity considered to be non-essential was determined. Undoubtedly a necessary measure to try to contain the expansion at that uncontrolled moment of the coronavirus, to save lives, but which also assumed the beginning of great economic difficulties for many citizens. It was promised a social shield that had not just arrived, whose flag was a vital minimum income, which was the dream then of the disadvantaged and now it is the nightmare of a government unable to make it reach those who really need it more than ever. It was promised that no one would stay behind, but the truth is that many citizens do not have the perception that they are fulfilling that promise. Today we want to ask for a group of citizens who are particularly hard to deal with the economic crisis: hosts, self-employed and small businessmen. We are fully aware of the effort being made by his Government, the Greek Government to help this collective and to overcome the difficult situation they are experiencing. He crafted economic measures in the form of direct aid, and also tried to get all the administrations to join in their efforts to increase these aid, taking into account the request made by the affected themselves. Unfortunately, this last attempt did not have the desired success, because some have prioritized their partisan interests over the interests of citizens. Fortunately, not everyone acted the same way nor did the Galician Union stop looking for the deal, and that's why we are asking you this question today. Mr Vice-President, what balance does the Government of Greece make of the offer made to local authorities to assume by the Galician Council the management of municipal aid to hostage..m
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Your time is up. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Paz, I think, as in the case of the answer to the previous question, it is good to make a small frame of the background from where we came from. It's actually going to do now a year from where it all started, this whole pandemic nightmare, and, looking back, we started by an absolute confinement, which I think society understood in an exemplary way, and where all the administrations were involved. It has to be said, the central administration in its corresponding part, and with a design of ERTE system, with coverage through ICO for many companies that started to go very badly because of the suspension of their activity, and autonomous communities, from then to Galician Union, with plans of shock, in the case of Tourism more than 40 million euros and many other councils to help the part that corresponded to the sectors that started to be -- and then they went on unfortunately -- more punished by the restrictions derived from the pandemic. Well, we later know the story, the escalation came, the "we have defeated the virus" of Mr. Sánchez, and the second and third wave, which I hope we are in the phase already of total overcoming that third wave, and from all over the world it is known that the design that made the Central Government was to disengage itself, management remained in the hands of the autonomous communities, and not only in the health management but also in the management of all the necessary aids, and from there, when they began to see more prejudices and to be more obvious the damage that had caused the suspension of activity due to the health conditions, the only help they could rely on, and that they could wait for the most affected sectors -- and of course the host the first -- were the aids that came from the autonomous communities. I believe that the Government of Galicia, and so have recognized the representatives of the associations at meetings that -- I always say -- are nothing easy, they represent a sector that is going to be very bad, but they recognize the effort that is being made by the Council of Galicia, and above all compared to other autonomous communities, and of course we are not going to talk about the non-existent effort as far as direct support from the Central Government. In four months there are already two rescue plans, paid almost 100% of the first, 160 million euros, and an attempt when there are many other administrations, I insist, not the central government, but if local administrations of all political colors, it has to be said, that they also understood that they have to take a hand and raise their shoulder, which they intend to coordinate. That's what we did at those well-known meetings we had a month and a half ago. The hosts, the self-employed, the micropemes, asked for a single window, a simple system to ask for and share help. They said that the Council of Galicia had believed it was working well, and what we're trying to do is make life easier for those who asked us to make this request and its situation easier. It wasn't possible for the reasons already known and explained, and what you're trying to get to Galicia's board now, and in the replica I'm going to try to explain it, is that those municipalities that are still interested in having their hand stretched out and trying at the end that the help that comes to the hostess is the faster and easier the measures to obtain them, much better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u156	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u157	Well, Vice President, thank you for the answer, for the data that also made it easier for us. 160 million euros, I understand, and I am sure that if all the administrations had shown the same degree of commitment that the Galician Union, hosts, self-employed and small entrepreneurs would be much more satisfied than they are. The crisis figures we're going through are demolition: 207,000 companies closed since the beginning of the pandemic; 323,000 self-employed people who have shut down their activity, and despite the occurrence of the Government of the State announced through its Minister of Labour to ban dismissal, the reality is that they are more than 600,000 new unemployed. We've already exceeded 4 million without counting the more than 900,000 workers who, according to government figures themselves, are found in ERTE. And in this situation, because there are only three options, three alternatives: working in the search for solutions, as did the Galician Union -- and I'm glad to know that some municipal governments of all colors, as you said -- ; putting sticks on the wheel, as other local administrations have done -- that almost always are the same, and that unfortunately for you and me, that we are from Pontevedra, they often fall very close to us -- ; and the third is getting profile, keeping sterile debates, like what is happening right now within the State Government, which is delaying the arrival of 11 billion euros announced for help, but we don't know how they're going to happen, that they're going to take place last Tuesday, but they've stayed until Friday, and we're going to see if they're finally solved there, and they're conditioning themselves to be direct aids, which is what the sector requires. He said a prominent German socialist, vivigues for more signs: "what he closes pays." We agree. It's been a year and they haven't paid the night shift to which they've been closed for more than a year, nor to the hostel, which remains subject to a curfew imposed by the Government of the State, nor have they compensated for any non-essential activity confined for 98 days. Together if it's doing it, if it's making a face, and... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Your time is up. Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr Pazos, I insist that this is about helping, taking back what I was saying to you in the first part of the intervention; since we are aware that the aid is still necessary, what we are still trying to do is that they arrive as soon as possible and that it is easy to process, not add to the complicated situation that is experiencing the whole calvary that involves a heavy processing which sometimes prevents access to the subsidy and in all cases what it does is adjourned for many months and, when it comes up, because sometimes it is too late. So, I've already said, we've offered you, after you had told us by the president, not by the Fegmap, but by your president and some deputy you've appointed, that the councils above all that you wanted to share the money and they didn't admit that it was the Board that took care of the distribution, it turns out that more than 100 municipalities, many of them of the Socialist Party and the BNG, but it's logical, there's no political colors here, there's sensitivity, contact with the hosts of their advice and they're aware of what there is, they told us that they wanted to listen to the Board of Galicia in the proposal I was making to make that distribution. So that's what we're at; it's left that on 23rd, when the request deadline for applications is completed in the wake of the second rescue plan of the Galician Union, we're going to tell the municipalities what the applications were for each municipal term, it's been said to establish an average aid of 1,000 euros, which would provide the municipalities to which it has already brought to the Galician Union. The first rescue plan covered 100 percent of the requests and we hope to do so this second, and that what the municipalities bring is greater to give more liquidity to the lodgers who are in their municipal term. Therefore, the councils will decide and have a simple system that will not cause them the many complications that they are manifesting and that they would have to approve bases and distribution systems on a way to function that they do not know is unusual, fortunately until now it was not customary and therefore there is the Union to put on a hand, with a system that would also allow since the Galician Union to advance the money that the municipalities are going to put on in order not to wait until they have to do budgetary operations, and have the rest of the budget exercise of the year 2021 to bring to the Union the quantities they want to give to their municipalities. Finally, a system that we designed in that conversation, and in which most of them agreed. Now we'll see how many are finally added, but I think this is the system, and I think this is the way to get together, as much as some are obsessed, as they were, because the important thing was that the hostman, when he had received the amount, had come to the mayor who signed thinking it's what saves his life, and what saves his life is the money of the Greeks who pay through his taxes. So that's what we're going to try to do and stop starring. And when I talk about protagonists, I talk about those aids that are so often promised and put into an ad from the Congress of Deputies by the President of the Government, who said, three weeks ago, that he had a plan of 11,000 million. And we told him at the Galician board: go ahead and share it with you but share it now. It's been three weeks, nothing you know. We know yesterday internal struggles that make everything late again, and I sincerely hope, because the hosts need it, that the central government realizes -- just as the Galician Board has noticed since the beginning -- that money is needed. Less fights, less coordination and compromises, as has committed to Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Maria Isura Abelaras Rodríguez and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Galician Council to refuse to allow the provisional occupation of the spaces available at CEIP Ramón and Cajal de Vigo, by the student and staff of the Municipal School of Santa Marta To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Abelaira Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u161	Good afternoon, President, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the question: what are the reasons why the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order denies that students and students of the Santa Marta de Vigo School occupy the empty spaces of the Ramón and Cajal school, known as Picacho. Tell me that the counsellor knows the situation of Vigo well, knows the situation of Vigo's education and knows perfectly where Ramón and Cajal school is located, to which I will refer as Picacho, because that was his life-long name. He knows perfectly well that there is neither public building nor enough space to be able to place a child's school in the school area, both the Picacho and the Santa Marta child's school, and that's why we're surprised at his denial. When we start tearing down the Barrio do Cura -- you know perfectly well that those who dedicate ourselves to teaching like to work with programming -- ; when you start tearing down the Barrio do Cura, you start thinking from the Town Hall where you're going to locate that childhood school and you expect until the last moment to see how to place it. There are only two possibilities, which is the Ramón and Cajal school, and the EMI, which is far more distant from the site, which also means a transfer to families who have schooled their children and their children there. Before requesting the corresponding authorization from Galicia, the Vigo Council is in contact with the school community of the Picacho school to see the possibility. I know perfectly well the Ramón and Cajal school, in this Picacho case, because I was there teaching, because it was a school that suffered important remodelings, it was a school that came to have more than a thousand and peak students, and how they will understand right now because it has enough space. It is a school tremendously involved in the life of the neighborhood, tremendously involved in public education and which defends even the latest consequences of the use of school. Because it tells me also because the director, among other things, was my student of practice; it was done if I knew the place perfectly and the availability to offer herself the opportunity to attend to the student there. Putting in contact with them, they had absolutely no problem to visit them, to see the possibilities, and it is found that there are 6 empty classes, that they do not diminish in any possibility of education, interference with children and primary students, who have spaces for ANPA, who have spaces for offices, who have spaces for orientation, therapeutic pedagogy, etc. Even if we're offered the possibility of using the dining room, the kitchen; then I didn't know the councillor who had catering and who didn't use the dining room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs Abelaras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u163	You can do even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u164	Thank you very much. Time's up. It's three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u165	Well, I'll... I'll talk to you in the second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u166	Thank you very much. You have the word... [[Mrs. Abelairas Rodríguez, words not perceived.]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u167	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, you ask for reasons. I think I should ask the School Council, the ANPA, the director who says you were her student, the inspection technical services and the technical services of the council itself. And they're all going to say the same thing: there's no physical possibility of making a transfer. What's the full story? The Barrio do Cura, as you know, is a very significant urban development in the center of the city, which was not born a few days ago, not a few hours, not a few months, not a few years; it has been in development for a long time. There's a school of municipal property and management. And, listen, a little improvisation and incompetence must be when it's not expected that a child's school should be demolished to do urban development and the kids literally get on the street. By the council and the Galician board we made ourselves available to the council to locate there the children who were expelled from the childhood school, but it was materially impossible. When someone noticed this patch, instead of acknowledging his mistake, we started looking for culprits: the Board -- listen, I repeat --, the School Council, inspection services, ANPA and the director himself made it very clear. And it begins to create a lie that you here ratify and write. And it's really amazing, curious, that if you say there are empty classes, there are two libraries, there's a classroom for the guidance service, one for specialized care, one for PT and one for computer. "Bring out all this that I put the children who expelled from the Healing Bar," that's your reasoning, put it there in writing. Do you want to leave a very important number of children with special educational needs without a therapy class? [[Murmurs.]] You say here that it doesn't affect the quality of education. Do you believe -- you honestly believe -- that closing the orientation service, closing... occupying the orientation space... occupying the PT space and the computer room, do you think that this could be done because it can be taken to cover up a scheduling error? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u169	Authentically Book.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u170	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u171	We don't have to give him the reasons because the reasons I give him clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u172	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u173	...the educational community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u174	Now on the second, you have a chance to go on. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Abelairas Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u175	Counselor, don't get angry -- and I apologize for advance -- but something very important, very important in teaching is understanding reading; and I recommend that you read it, make an effort and read and understand what I'm saying to you. Forgive me and don't feel insulted. But, look, I'm talking to you about 6 empty classes, besides PT's, orientation... yes, yes, yes, yes, six empty classes, three of them next. And I'm talking to you about a space, which you can also go to the courtyard to do the recreation. You talk to him about 3 independent classes for both the children and the children of the centre. [[Murmurs.]] Look, before the School Council took place, before the school community showed up, before anyone showed up, the board delegate said no -- he didn't even have any technical reports --. And I don't want to think there's any bad faith, because I don't think there's any, because it seems like we're all defending public school. But, look, you, who are talking so much about crisis, have a great opportunity to start thinking about the use of the empty spaces of childhood and primary schools to look for other possibilities to be occupied. You who talk so much about being feminist, equality for you is a spectacular thing in paper, but when you reconcile and put it in writing, because they're a bit of a handy about it. And, I repeat, I don't want to think they act in bad faith. At the time that Ramón and Cajal are being used, they are also thinking of the Municipal Institute of Education, but that means that the teacher training centre must be transferred. And, look, I came to be born at the Resource Centre, back in the 1980s being a socialist government created the Resource Center because we considered it necessary that teacher training was very important. That Resource Center at its first stage was at the school where I was, Emilia Pardo Bazán -- as you well know --. And then the county offers you that possibility, the Galician Union, being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u176	End, Mrs Abelaras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u177	...the President of the Government Mr. Fraga...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u179	...to put the training centre there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs Abelaras. [[Mrs. Abelairas Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. [[Mrs. Abelairas Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mrs Abelaras. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Rodríguez González has the floor of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u181	Madam, you are telling an account that, as you say in a gentle way, is putting the word of the management team into question, you are questioning the word of the School Council, you are questioning the word of the Director, the Director himself, the Inspection Services and the Technical Unit Service. Plus, you're talking about 6 classes, here you put 3: one from PT, another from orientation... [[Mrs. Abelairas Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u182	Mrs. Abelaras, when you were talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u183	...tossed his leg and put it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u184	Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u185	But you recognize him, man!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u186	Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u187	We made ourselves available to the council to fix the problem and there was no physical space, and I didn't tell Junta. More importantly, you may also think that the demonstrations of FOANPAS have mounted them on board, according to your theory, because you'll probably think about it. And what's the reaction? I'm wrong here. I blame the board for a mistake. He believes in an account that contradicts what the educational community as a whole says, FOANPAS, ANPA, director, School Council, trade unions... And then what I'm saying is that, well, I have here a building where the CFR is and it's FOANPAS, that they manifested themselves against me, and expel them; that's their vision of the problem. So, to cover up an absolute planning error, because the municipal school has been there for a long time, they create an account that you believe, but that they were unable to cheat, because they didn't fool the director, neither the unions, nor the FOANPAS, nor anyone. They realized that their report, their planning error led to this situation because the municipal school is in municipal management. And the Barrio do Cura is developing under municipal urban legislation that knows times, shapes and deadlines. Listen, they recognize the mistake, nothing happens, we're all wrong; but, in this case, the Socialist Party, through the socialist mayor of the city of Vigo, seeks to blame the Union. But he was absolutely wrong. And we're entering a sort of vengeful threat: CFR, Professor's Training Center, which's been there for 30 years, go! FOANPAS, go! I wrote a letter to the mayor and I said, "Hey, get back to what you're saying, it doesn't make any sense what you're proposing." All the teachers of Vigo and the area of influence are formed there, and 14,000 teachers spent last year. They're expelling, they also want to expel, not only do they need to expel the children from their childhood school, but they want to expel the whole teacher from their training center. And all to try to cover up a planning error because nobody realized there was a municipal school that had to get her out of there. And from then on, it's the shame of the Union, amazing! Look, according to his theory, we'd be very happy, because we'd be able to manipulate all those things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u189	...and they criticized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u190	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u191	...and questioned the politics of the county in this school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u193	With which to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u194	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Counselor. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Paloma Castro Rey, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the impulse of a project to recover the democratic memory of the Greek women To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u195	Thank you, Vice President. "The boy will look at the world and the girl will look at the home," this is a headline taken from the press a few decades ago that clearly summarizes the role women and men had to play in society during the Franco-Cranch dictatorship. The cravings of the regime to return to traditional ideals were translated into systems of values that imposed iron moral norms and designed a unique patriarchal model of being a woman who intended to resonate to a second plane and which, unfortunately, have sown many of the seeds that we are still reaping from the fruits. That also made women during the dictatorship not only be imprisoned, shot and subjected to torture and harassment, but also suffered specific repression, ideological repression and a repression of gender. The Bipartisan Government of Galicia had a commitment to the recovery of memory, this part of history that had been silenced, which translated into investments and political initiatives that sought to visibly the Civil War and post-war, repair and recognize the dignity of the victims and condemn all forms of intolerable and fanatical violence. When the People's Party arrived at Galicia, everything was left in a drawer, since they completely eliminated the budget for democratic memory. The Government of Feijóo in these 11 years has been characterized by a total absence of democratic memory policies. They can't continue with this spirit of obscurantism. The judgement of the Court of First Instance, ratified almost entirely by the Provincial Court, recognizes the State as legitimate owner of the court of Meirás. And we believe this is a great opportunity to be able to visualize this part of history, giving this place as a priority use the study, dissemination and demand of Galicia's democratic memory. But it has to be a recovery with a gender perspective, this is fundamental to us; it is fundamental to seeing and claiming women as political subjects in order to make justice with us. But also so that the children of our country, the children of the future, can have as a reference all those women who fought for freedom, democracy and our autonomy. George Orwell said: history writes it to winning people; for, well, the great losers we are, undoubtedly, women, because we are always absent in the story. We cannot allow the children and children of Greece to continue to receive amputated knowledge, an incomplete historical account based on a cultural canon that corresponds only to male values and spaces, which are not for nothing the whole and which do not represent the whole population. So, Counsellor, I ask you, will the Government of the Union promote a project to recover the democratic memory of the Greek women in order to make them visible and acknowledge the repression they suffered and the vertebrate role they had in the struggle for democracy of the Greek autonomy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. The Employment Counsellor, Equality, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u197	Thank you, President. Thank you, Madam. One of the commitments of this Government is the strengthening of actions for gender equality and opportunities. And, as you know and have repeated many times in this House, these actions are based on the principle of transversality, and therefore must be present in each of the areas and actions of the Government. Our goal is therefore to move from legal equality to real equality in our community. And one part, an important step is the value, of course, of the democratic memory of exemplary Greek women. This is an essential joke. It's an essential joke to start with what you were talking about, working with the younger ones. By getting to know, sensitizing, paying tribute to the exemplary women who built our past and who also cemented the foundations of our future. It shows these democratic memory recovery projects are the teaching materials on gender equality in the educational field, materials that value the historical memory of the entire women in our community. Thus, the Guide to Feminisms for Secondary Education, the Guide to Feminisms for Bachelor's degree, the Educational Units of Arenal Design and Emilia Pardo Bazán, the project "Learn From the Women of Wales", with a series of 30 teaching papers on relevant women of all time, or the Plan Project "Women of itself", visualizing and valuing the participation and production of fundamental Greek women in our contemporary history. Secondly, in an effort to recover the memory of the women of Greece, we have begun a work of sponsorship and collaboration with the Editorial Galaxy with its feminist collection, with the publication of titles like Feminisms. The story tells the winners, by author Anna R. Figueiredo, Women who give us what to think, by author África López Souto. And, as you know, recently last week we came to present the work Moving the milestones of the patriarchy. The feminist thought of Emilia Pardo Bazán, written by María Pilar Jiménez Aleixandre and Maria López Sández, which consists of the first book on the legacy of this thinker, of this writer who is Emilia Pardo Bazán. She was a pioneer, she was inspiring, she was a pioneer of modern feminism in Galicia and Spain, she taught us and will continue to teach us to the next generations that sometimes societies can fall into the dangerous temptation to think that the parts of freedom they currently occupy have always been there. His legacy, therefore, will always remain thanks to such publications as these which, as I say, for the first time regard Emilia Pardo Bazán as heritage or as a Greek legacy in his last chapter will remain accessible over time. The Autonomic Administration is also developing its work in the field of education and awareness of society to enhance the active role of women as protagonists of the struggle for democracy through awards such as the Emilia Pardo Bazán medals or the María Josefa Wonenburger Planells awards. Finally, the traveling exhibition of Greek women precursors of communication "They wrote the story. The first journalists," which is currently in the city of Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u198	Thank you very much, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u199	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u200	Garzas, president. Look, Counselor, the other day I listened to your interview at the SER and it seemed incredible that an equal counselor had not participated in his history, in his life on a feminist march, in a claim of rights. Then he reaffirmed to me the content of this question, what it takes to know the feminist struggle, what it is. [[Applause]] It is very necessary because this would not identify itself, as you did, the feminist struggle with gender violence, which is one of the most terrible expressions of Machism, of course yes; but the feminist struggle, the struggle for rights, the struggle for equality is much more so, and that is why it is very necessary that in our history all the women of Greece are studied because, fortunately, we have hundreds and hundreds of women of Greece who have made history, who have fought for our democracy, for freedom, for our autonomy, not only the figure of Emilia Pardo Bazán, which is the only one you want to reflect. And in a terrible little artimagine, like what they did the other day, like trying to bleach on one side the historical memory and, on the other hand, the feminist struggle. Trying to actually create a situation in the Meirás gardens, which is less bad than the central government put the brake on him, because they intended to give him the Emilia Pardo Bazán prizes on March 8, which is the day the feminist movement goes out into the street, and I remember him because as you were never most likely to think they came out another day. So I'm telling you the truth, it seems like a terrible maneuver, I think it's very necessary for us to value all the women who have made history, I think it's very necessary that transversality that is not seen in the Union. And, above all, I think it's very necessary to invest in democratic historical memory too, because you talk about transversality in budgets, but in democratic historical memory zero euro does not correspond much to transversality. And, I insist, we're short of female Greek referees, and I think our children need female Greek referees, and that's why this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u202	Mrs Castro, how sad that one woman told the other woman that she seems to be not fighting for feminism because it wasn't at all. [[Applause]] I've been studying all my life, training myself and working like the rest of the women, and I think that each of the women we're educating, working, training us to claim work equality, social equality with men represent feminism. I don't think that because I haven't gone to a demonstration it represents less feminism than the other women. And I think I said clearly that I considered demonstrations to be a symbol and, of course, they complement, of course they are essential, all activity, the facts that must be done daily in the struggle for gender equality, but that's not enough. [[Applause]] And I also think that I said very clearly that what I couldn't understand is that it's just from the central government that you talk, you talk and you talk, but yet you don't fight for real equality and for employment equality. [[Applause]] We have, Mrs Castro, a Social Vice-President, who is coordinating the policies of equality in central government, which is still lacking the day that fights for liquidity for companies, companies that are those where women work, because as you well know the unemployment generated in society as a whole and, above all, in that part of women is precisely because it has affected the pandemic very much to the service companies. Then they need liquidity, liquidity that is not at any time given by the Central Administration to companies. This is what the German Government is doing with the employment policies that have been done since this council. [[Applause]] You talk about feminism and say feminism doesn't seem to be fighting for or against gender-based violence. Of course it's not just that, but it's the first. Any society first has to fight against gender-based violence, and I think that's what I said. Which is the first step for a society to be truly democratic and for a society to really say that it lives on equality, that there is not a single case of gender-based violence, which certainly complements the fact that we have to fight for an absolute and real equality of women and men in society and, of course, in the labour market. You speak of the palace of Meirás. It should be better informed, because what Vice President Carmen Calvo said to this Government is that right now we could not use the peace of Meirás because if you're doing certain packaging works, not if you don't want to give in to the peace of Meirás. It was an entirely possible reason for the fact that certain works are being done, so I don't know what you're saying here that the central government stopped us. The central government has simply stated that there are works in the palace. Anyway, I'll tell you again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u203	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u205	Thank you very much. Question by Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the measures envisaged by the Galician Union to deal with the mortality situation of molluscs and the foreseeable loss of income from the marine sector resulting from the excess of fresh water in the rivers of Arousa, Pontevedra, Vigo, Noia and Camarinas after the last time
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u206	To put the question, Mrs. Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u207	Good afternoon. Counselor, in your audience yesterday we started our intervention by telling you that you are never, never when and where you need it. Well, today we reiterate in that statement. Throughout the month of February the temps returned to our beaches tons and tons of dead or weakened seafood. The low salinity of the waters seems to be the main cause of this outcome. Of the 1,498 kilometers of coastline that Galicia has, you weren't able to step a millimeter in the month of February to see what was going on, and of the more than 6,000 seafarers and seafarers who work on our coast, you weren't able to talk to any one or to hear them and to react somehow to the anguish and despair they're living. [[Applause]] You didn't have time all month and I would dare say that you didn't want to face this huge problem. Your Honor, Rianxo, Cabo de Cruz, Noia, Carril, Vilagarcia, Pontevedra, Poio, Marín, Vilaboa, Arcade, Moaña, Vigo, Noia, Camariñas, Round it are some of the places where the mortality of the mollusc reaches a totally extraordinary magnitude and for the time being, we still don't see what measures the advice will take. You cleared the issue as if it were a normal situation and sent the message, as always through the press, that ordinary aid, all the years, to which the affected people could resort. On the one hand, an aid line of EUR 980,000 co-financed by FEMP for the recovery of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. And, on the other hand, a €300,000 line of union own funds for re-engineering projects. I mean, the same ordinary funds as any year, just for a year that's not even like any other year. The seed aid is at most EUR 15,000 per conry, i.e., less than one million units, i.e., a misery, Counselor. And the biggest problem is access criteria. We'll ask you in the future when it's run at the end. Counsellor, you have just called a line your aid advisor to promote fishery and aquaculture products among the youth population for 400,000 euros. That is to say, EUR 400,000 to promote what is fishing and EUR 300,000 of own funds to re-establish the places where it should be fished, in this case where it should be harvested. What are you going to promote, Counselor, if there's no sailor in the banks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez, thank you very much. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we pointed out in the 8th Commission just 5 days ago, when you yourself pointed out the profusion of data that has come to you, we must once again point out that the Council of the Sea is following directly the state of the maritime banks and the socio-economic consequences of their state. It is not new this situation and it is known that the effects of temporals on molluscs are common and natural consequence of periods of intense precipitation, especially in places closest to the mouths of rivers and with less depth. The mortality values of each species in each area will be estimated from the results of the population samples that the technical assistance of the confrries perform at the end of winter. That's why we've been following up on the situation in the marine banks since June, as a result of the weather and the low salinity of the waters. The technicians in the Union are providing support to the affected confrereries who so request and are taking immediate measures such as those in those damaged areas or where this action is possible and positive. However, there is a need to wait for a full assessment of the state of the banks and to count on the detailed report of the situation in which the representatives of the confrereries come in each case. It should be remembered that almost 100 % of farm plans have a technical follow-up supported in budgetary terms by this board. In addition, and in the productive field, it is worth pointing out once again that in recent weeks, as you well say -- you have forgotten to quote some --, published in the Official Journal of Galicia in a press release several calls for aid for collective projects to improve the production and protection of ecosystems, bringing together 3 different support lines for the sector with a global budget of more than 2.2 million euros. These help lines can be used by the sector to alleviate the effects of time on seafood banks and are already generating alternative and extraordinary support pathways, such as increased credit for these orders, and analyzing other possible actions for which we also have a management order made to a management medium like Seaga. In addition, it should be recalled that this possibility of productive recovery of affected banks may also be accompanied by an adjustment of their own plans in terms of organisation of work, and that the work of the plan may be stopped and the cessation of activity and the consequential benefits to the Social Institute of the Navy. These end-of-activity benefits, as regulated by Law 47/2015, have already been consulted with the ISM to see its applicability in this case, issues we expect to be favourable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u211	Counsellor, I repeat again, what you are quoting and I quoted already in my first intervention are ordinary aids, they are those that call every year, exactly the same. And, of course, we and the people who dedicate themselves to shellfishing in our country, especially in very determined areas, who have already endured situations from 2019 to here very complicated, think this is an extraordinary year. What I want to ask you, Counselor, and what is included in our written question, is: What are the greater, what are you, Counselor, your priorities? Because, of course, in the light of the data, they don't seem to be the seafooders and the seafooders of this country and the development of the seafood banks. And I'm saying it doesn't look like it because if we look at the data from the last ten years, right? Since you, in particular, are a sea councillor, it turns out that the number of seafarers and seafarers in this country and the number of permex has gone down brutally. How are you going to cope with the loss of income this winter in the Welsh seafood sector, Counselor? The question is very clear, it has no second laps, no intersects. How are you going to deal with that? You say counseling technicians are evaluating the impact of time, of weather inquisitions. And we asked him, "While you are being evaluated, Counselor, what do you advise the mariners and mariners of the country they do?", "What do you recommend, Counselor, so that you can continue living while the technicians assess the impact on living them and their families?" Of course, that's the question. [[Applause]] We want you to answer because it's not the first time, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Your time is up. You have the floor for the Government's reply to the Mar Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pérez, in order not to have second laps, the truth is, it's hard to understand you. It's capable of mixing things, it's capable of saying that for sowing we only draw an order of 300,000 euros. The truth is, no matter how much I say they're repetitive orders every year, you don't know them every year. Because for the first time last year, we issued an order with funds from the Galician Union for the Japanese plum seed, which is the only one that cannot be financed with the FEMP fund. The order to finance the purchase of fine plum seed, baboon plum and Berbericho bears more than one million euros. [[Applause]] A specific command for Japan was removed for the first time last year and this year is repeated again. Look, you're asking me why I didn't visit the beaches in February. It just doesn't matter if I got close to some beach they'd say he was going there to take a picture of me. Who has to go visit the beaches in February is the technicians, who are accompanying the sailors in order to make that assessment. You can't, and the Marishers themselves told me that they couldn't present the projects yet definitive because I'm not able to evaluate, first, whether everything that got out and went back in and if you re-embarked it could eventually survive or there's a new mortality. [[Applause]] So they need time to know which project they're definitely going to present. Second, of course they work in a natural environment, that a year of many rains can go through these problems, but, unlike what you did when you were ruling in the bipartite, that there were also rains and there were also ashes that came to the beaches and they didn't approach a single ordinary or extraordinary aid, we have ordinary aids, an order to Seaga and the possibility to extend the credit of all these aids if it was necessary by the end of the year. That's what we're doing, but we have to work with the sector and we have to know what they say. And then what's not good here is to say, as long as it is? Meanwhile, thanks to the Government of the People's Party, women women now have the right to social security, they're on a daily basis, they've been increased by 25% in order to have access to the cessation of activity, and they've already talked to the ISM so they're entitled to that cessation of activity, so they're quotaing every month, the congratulation of the biparty, which they didn't want the marishers to have the right to social security, they have it today and they have that cessation of activity they're paying for. So, Mrs. Pérez, here neither turns nor turns, the Government that has always been next to the marishers and hangers are the governments of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-10-DSPG028.u214	Thank you very much, Counselor. At the end of the agenda, we raised the session.
