ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u1	The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified the inattentiveness of this plenary by Mrs Isura Abelairas Rodríguez. And we're just on the agenda. First point. Debate of the draft law on recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u2	This law has been amended to the whole of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González, speaks for the presentation of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. In 1989 the Galician Parliament approved the Law on the Management of the Galician University System, which completely transformed the panorama of higher education in our community. More than three decades later, this House faces a new challenge, since it has to deal with and must decide on the bill of recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. For the first time, the Greek legislature must -- we must -- evaluate and make decisions on a bill for the creation of a private university in Galicia. A university that must complement the three public universities of SUG, which, on the other hand, other autonomous communities have already faced earlier. In fact, the first private university not linked to the Church was approved by the Courts in 1993, specifically Alfonso X El Sabio. We must not forget what is the policy framework for the existence of universities in Spain. These are public or private entities with legal personality of theirs, endowed with autonomy, by article 27.10 of the Spanish Constitution. Specific legislation, both at the state level and at the autonomous level, enables private universities to open up. In the state sphere, references to the regulatory framework were laid down in 1983, with the University Reform Act, approved in this case by the Socialist Party. In 2001, the LOU, the Law of Universities, approved by the PP, maintains the possibility of having private universities, and the subsequent decree -- the modification, in this case, of the Government of the Socialist Party -- does not alter the conditions set out in the LOU itself for the creation of private universities. In the area of Greek, in Galicia, the publication of the law of 2013 of Law 6/2013, of SUG, which was agreed with the three public universities in Galicia, regulated by the child the possible appearance in Galicia of private universities. It's a necessary law, it demanded more than the vigilante at the state level, and of course it was and is a reference piece in Spain in the field of regulating private universities. Today, and until the publication of the future state decree announced by Minister Castells, in Galicia, is demanding, for the creation of a private university, two branches of knowledge, experience in university management, research and doctoral programs, creation of scholarships for students or also the accredited financial viability, among other things. The result of this German legislation, which is more stringent in general than the autonomous legislation, has, over the past few years, been around a dozen initial projects of private universities, but none of them have formally submitted the request when they knew the minimum requirements they were asking for. The processing of this bill originates in 2018, when Afoundation formally submits the application, following, of course, all pre-emptive procedures established by the current legal framework. In this context, the Union starts the procedure, because, if it didn't, it would be violating the law. Another point of interest is that, in the state as a whole, in the last three years, 17 requests for reports have been submitted to the Ministry of Universities for private universities. Once analyzed, they got favorable balance three, among them the one from Afundation. All legal requirements are met in the preparation of this request. The proposal submitted was submitted to the previous public consultation and public information the preliminary draft law. He was exposed to the open-ended portal of transparency and Government of Galicia and all the necessary reports were requested from the General Secretariat of Universities, the Technical-Juridic Service, the Legal Counsel, a lot of reports. And it is significant the positive report of the General University Policy Conference of the Ministry of Universities, which was delivered in 2020. Also, of course, the legal report by the General Technical Secretariat of Universities and the dictatement of the Economic and Social Council. Once the suggestions, reservations and requirements of the various agents acting have been met and shaped in the preliminary draft, the text for the future law was adopted at the Council of the Galician Council of 18 March. This text is forwarded to Parliament for its processing, since the application complies with all the relevant legislation. In view of the legal procedure, I shall then explain the bill. On 31 March, the draft law for its processing by parliamentary groups enters this chamber, beginning with the amendments to the whole tabled by the Socialist Party of Galicia and the BNG, which give rise precisely to this debate. The project is part of the Institute of Intercontinental Higher Education of the Company, the IESIDE, a centre affiliated to the University of Vigo, where the official degree studies are given in Administration and Business Management, and also a master with the same name, in addition to own titles. The establishment of the Intercontinental University of the Company as a private university of public service and social responsibility is specialized in the company's eidus and will have international character. He plans to focus his academic activity on two areas of knowledge: social and legal sciences and engineering and architecture. Regarding the structure and relevant aspects of the normative text, we have to say that this bill is structured into eight articles: the first, recognition of the Intercontinental University of the Company; the second, structure and academic organization; the third, beginning and cessation of activity; the fourth, access requirements; the fifth, ensuring activity; the sixth, inspection and control; the seventh, transmission or transfer of ownership; and the eighth, the budgetary incidence. It has two transitional provisions, referring to the process of integration of the Institute of Intercontinental Higher Education of the Company and the expiry of recognition, and two other last provisions, on normative development and its own entry into force. It also includes an annex to the text citing centres as well as the initially planned teaching offer. We are faced with a brief normative text which has complied with the procedure, including the favourable report of the Ministry of Universities, agreed at the end of November 2020, i.e. that this private university has the positive support of the current Government of Spain and respects the prevailing legality. It will teach in face-to-face and semi-presenceal terms for official titles. If this project is approved, it will provide a system of scholarships and aids to the study in consideration of the student's academic record and his personal and family circumstances. It shall allocate 15 % of the total revenue obtained annually to this end. The headquarters were established in Santiago de Compostela, with two academic campuses, in Coruña and in Vigo, operating with a networked intercampus system. The classes were given in the following teaching structures: the Faculty of Business and Law Administration, the Faculty of Engineering and Business Technology and the Faculty of Research. It will initially provide four degrees, four university masters and two doctoral programs. All of this is listed in the annex to the bill. In the field of titrations, it is in line with current legislation, in addition to taking into account the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and the set of jurisprudence of reference. It is worth noting that the SUG Act, which literally tells us: "The catalogue of titles offered must be complementary and non-repetitive with regard to pre-existing or consolidated titles in SUG. And his connection with new branches in the scientific field and with new professional needs will be particularly appreciated." The activity is organized into academic fields of knowledge; each will take over a structured teaching offer in programs and promote research activity, through grade studies, university teachers and doctoral programs. In accordance with the autonomous legislation, the commencement of their activities shall be authorised by decree of the Board of Trustees, once the legal requirements required by the applicable state and autonomous legislation have been verified. In addition, I want to make it very clear that the execution and development of this law will have no impact on the budget allocation provided for in the Greek University Financing Plan. This new university will be self-financed in an absolutely private way, not interfering with public funding lines. So you shouldn't transfer the false idea that this project is going against U.S. support for public university. In many communities in Spain, in the vast majority of Spanish communities, private universities have been created in recent decades, with autonomous and state governments of different political colors. Finally, we are faced with a university project funded by a private institution, a non-profit foundation, which is set up by higher education and which has a vocation to be useful and to diversify Galicia's educational supply, without prejudice, of course, to the good doing of the three current Greek universities, and being, in addition, fully compatible, increasing the offer in a complementary way. Ladies and gentlemen, this House has to decide, as it did in 1989, on the evolution of the university system, and must do so from the point of view of the rules, of course, in particular the Constitution and the state and autonomous university legislation. And also in the exercise of freedom, so that people have options to choose their higher education training, and not only at other points in Spain, where private universities are -- we can say so -- normal, not only in other places in Spain, in other autonomous communities in Spain, but also within our own community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u4	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of defence of amendments to the whole, of restitution, and of positioning with respect to the bill. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Noa Susana Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We want to start this debate as we begin our amendment to the whole, which I think is very clear. [[Interruptions.]] In our understanding, the need for a law that recognizes Galicia's first private university is not recognized. He likes this government always to speak of the first, to host the first, we are the first, and to compare ourselves, in addition, to other territories! Of course, the need for this university is not recognized, since the three public universities that make up the Greek university system already cover the demand for higher education in our country, and in addition to standards of duly evaluated quality and certificates. It's not true, nor correct, that with the recognition of this university, the offer of training is extended, since most of the projected titles already exist in Galicia as such, already exist, you tell what you want, but already there, and then we'll explain that in some cases on several campuses. No, PP ladies and gentlemen, no, counsellor, we're not against the private initiative, the PSdEG is not against it, they don't use that argument. But it's just that, in addition, I'm telling you, let's do it, even if we were against the private initiative, which is not the case, but even if we were against it, we wouldn't have to use this discursive line, because the project -- I repeat -- that we are discussing here today and that we will now explain well is that of a university that presents the minimum titles required by law to be a university, that most of them, in addition, already exist in our public system. So, Mr. Puy and Mr. Tellado, who were the ones who made statements to the media on this issue, stop appealing uncertain arguments to justify our opposition to a project that brings nothing new, absolutely nothing new. You could be justified if you come to meet needs demanded by the market or by the student, but that's not the case. Because, as we say, the three public universities in Wales already cover all the demand. And it's just, they cover that demand and they do it with excellence recognized and accredited, and with budgetary needs -- and this is not very important -- that they go far beyond the approach of the Greek Government. Support the private initiatives you want, we have no problem. But first take care of what's all of them. They increase funding for the period 2022-2026 of the SUG, especially structural, as requested by the universities themselves. [[Applause]] They also make, they also favor, stable contracts for teachers and research staff, as well as administrative staff and services, to reinvigorate a staff of universities that is absolutely old. They increase the scholarships, improve the recruitment and stabilization possibilities and conditions of the investigator's staff, and they also meet the successive infrastructure demands that the public university requests. We do not share, either in any way, the way in which this law is dealt with, because it would violate all transparency standards and transparency obligations. But no, no, we think that this has been a disease of absolute obscurantism, of lack of transparency, of opacity, and that it has even been denounced, in addition, by all the persons or entities who have wanted to amend or make allegations. To ourselves, this group has been very complicated, very, very complicated, we had to present here several initiatives to finally have in our hands the self-justifiable memory of this project. On the contrary, in order to assess its relevance, we had to make the various official preceptive reports, rather than in any case simply to ensure compliance with the legality and relevance of this project, as was its obligation, for the time being they seemed to become promoters of the initiative. And this is the case with successive reports from the General Secretariat of Universities, which look more like advertising pamphlets or sponsorship brochures than neutral and objective reports, which is what they should be. A real purpose. Reports from the General Secretariat of Universities are a real disincentive. And that General Secretariat insists on its reports, on successive reports, on three reasons that justify the opportunity of the new university. And listen carefully: one is the mixed, face-to-face and interactive teaching, and specialization in the company, technology and enterprise -- the counsellor also spoke of this today --, the improvement of student employability, based on which the project implies, and quote textually, "an international reference model in innovation, technology, business focus, academic surplus, interactional character." I'm running out of fire by just naming all these excellences. And the third argument is a strong economic impact, since it says "it will attract students from other places, and increase the rate of entrepreneurial activity in Galicia." Of course!, in the view of this parliamentary group, of the PSdeG, none of the three alleged reasons -- by the way, brought up but not argued -- in those reports are based on reality, while the public universities in Greece have just demonstrated their extraordinary resilience to the ability to impart non-presental teaching in these past times of the pandemic. We don't understand, nor do we admit, that the training that the new university is going to provide tells you that it will improve employability. You look at those same employability indices that handle the occupational observatories of the Greek universities and you'll see how surprised they are. And even less we're going to agree that it is in doubt that excellence, internationalisation, innovation or business approach are not keys to the current SUG model. Defend the public, please! Finally, we do not know the indicators used to claim that new studies will favour an increase in the rate of entrepreneurial activity. Based on what they make this statement? Based on what? Let's hope I can tell you later. It is amazing, of all things, that the Council of Galicia, with competences in this matter and that it leads public universities to a budget suffocation, in spite of which they maintain their recognition of excellence, assumes that the improvement of employability and the entrepreneurial rate in our country will come from the hands of the existence of a private university. Absolutely amazing! Our parliamentary group wants to make our arguments from the three public universities in Wales, and also from the union forces, when they talk -- we repeat again, but this is the main argument -- that with their offer they perfectly cover the demand for higher education studies in our country. In fact, the study squares offered at the beginning of the past course exceeded the number of students who approved the university access tests. Isn't it covered? Aren't the squares covered? Isn't the demand covered? From there, of course, we imagine that, with this data, of these thousand, the Counsellor's light years arguing that the squares are sufficient and that that's why we have to close the coupon, even sometimes also forcing those squares to be reduced. Of course, but now it turns out that it's a good idea that a new private university, which would increase those squares that up to now were not necessary, and we repeat, in studies that already exist, now this seems like a good idea. Well, if anyone understands it, explain it to us, please, because we still don't understand it. Because SUG universities have long claimed the possibility of increasing the squares in some of their most demanding titles, without this request being accepted at any time. Yes, as we say, the Council justifies how reasonable it is to create a new university, which, of course, will increase these squares. Yesterday we even watched with stupor... we knew that for the next course, and because of one -- and I quote it textually, because this is a press release from the Galician board, the Council communication office -- "to a structural over-offering," if you reduce places in the title of Administration and Business Management, the same thing that this private university is going to offer, and you reduce places. We don't know if this title is reduced to cover the others who are going to enter private university. We don't understand. We really don't understand it, and more when those plates are €7,500 per course, by the way, the cheapest, the cheapest. I repeat, if anyone understands that he explains it to us, because it seems to us to be harmful. Having said all this, the fundamental argument and, in our understanding, irrefutable -- of what we are already talking about from the beginning -- to request the return of this project is that the Intercontinental University of the Company -- or the Company -- does not meet many of the general requirements required in Decree 222/2011, so the official university teachings in Galicia are regulated -- by the fact, a decree only mentioned in the brief report of the ACSUG, there is no other mention in all that memory -- nor is there any other reference to the requirements of Article 13(g) of Law 6/2013 of the SUG, which says, as the counsellor has already stated, but perhaps will read it again: "The catalogue of titles offered should be complementary and non-repetitive to the pre-existing and consolidated titles in the SUG." Well, that's what we're saying, too, was said by the Galician Economic and Social Council in its report -- by the way, negative, but it's the same, which will do! -- by referring to the report itself also of the Agency for the Quality of the Galician University System -- the ACSUG --, which indicated that, "the content of the documentation submitted, would not comply with the provisions of the above-mentioned law." Which, incredibly, contradicted what was stated in the bill and in the reports, as I say, in those publicity reports of the General Secretary of Universities, which speak of whether the offer was extended. What are we left with? It expands, doesn't it expand? ACSUG itself says that the law is not complied with. What are we left with? What we want here is objective data, and you will say whether or not there is duality. The degree in Administration and Business Management, which is also part of the offer of this new private university, is in Galicia at the three Greek universities in the three. But it is also on five campuses: Ourense, Vigo, Santiago, Lugo and La Coruña. At Lugo's place, in addition, the degree in Enterprise and Technology. The three universities also have several degree studies in Information Systems and ICT. But it's that they also exist on four campuses -- Vigo, La Coruña, Santiago and Lugo -- masters in Business Management and Administration, exactly the same ones that this new private university proposes. Also in Data Engineering, as well as in addition, there are also PhDs in Economics and Business. Exactly the same title as it offers to private university. And it happens exactly the same -- and I'm not going to extend here -- with the programs of the alleged proposed research lines. That is, the three public universities are already considering some studies of the new that they intend to create, they are already adapted to new needs. They also talk about digital economy, and also about entrepreneurship. That's why it seems to us not only unacceptable but unheard of that they deny the greatest and speak of the fact that with the new university there will be complementarity, there is no such thing! If this obvious failure to comply with the legislation could be the only argument to ask for the project's return, there are many more issues than today will not give me time to talk, but good... In relation to the research and accreditation of the research experience of the staff who will be part of the UIE, the state's public university system knows that it has a widely recognized system, such as gender, to believe the research experience. This is the unequivocal instrument and indicator that defines the investigative qualification of any IDP. Well, the proposal for the creation of the EIU does not clarify whether the staff meets that requirement of having a minimum research experience and, in fact, we find it quite complicated that they can fulfill it. There is no provision for expected revenue to be made in detail for the promotion of research. I'm going to the budget, because you talked about budget here. It is ensured that the EIU will have no impact on the budget allocation provided for in the Greek financing plan. But from the ethereal drafting of the project we are not able to discard the possibility that there will be some other additions to resources on the part of the Greek Government. Because not in the allocation, but what about the distribution?, not at the bottom of the General R & D Transfer Financing Plan, which in the current plan is between 12 and 15 of the current plan, which amounts to about 60 million euros?, is it not there? We, I'm sorry that we mistrust, but we're concerned that the Government of Greece doesn't amend what the promoter company brings, without any repair, into the memory presented, as the new university -- says textually -- "will be beneficial to Galicia for its economic impact, since attention is meant to save public spending on education, especially in postgraduate terms.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I'm saving no public spending on education! We do not know whether this statement is good for the Council of Galicia, which would, in fact, be the beginning of the dismantling of public higher education in Galicia. It's also worrying about the indefinition of what is also alerted to in some of the reports about educational methodology, or the hiring of teachers, which refers to the strong interactional orientation, and of course we feel very insufficient about scholarships. Finally, we appreciate a certain laxity -- and this concerns us very much -- within the starting and cessation times of activity. And there's a total lack of interest in evaluation, inspection and control tasks. No mention is made of sanctions in case of non-compliance, which is to be said that their application lacks legal effectiveness. In addition to the absence of any mention of the use of the Greek language or the fulfilment of equality between men and women, as established by the prevailing legality. For all this, which, as you will understand, was a synthetic summary of the many reasons we found to not recognize the creation of this new university, we are not going to support this project. We have a public university system of accredited excellence that covers all the demand in our country, with a professor also accredited under the highest standards of quality. With a leading research in the state as a whole in many areas, specifically in those of the new university, as it is collected in the successive rankings that are developed each year. And all of this with an absolutely insufficient funding plan, the data is tem wet. Of course, in the hands of the Greek Government it remains or commits itself to strengthening our public university system -- which, as we say, is more than enough to meet our country's demand -- or to continue with the strategy that has been followed until now to suffocate our public universities. And nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Antonio Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u7	Thank you very much, President. Allow me, before I begin, to transfer a reminder to the family of Jose Represas, mayor of Ponteareas, who just left us on yesterday, and who spent so much time of his life working for his county and his country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Pepe Repras, always with us! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In these days, he reflected on a director of a university in Greece -- he also did so in similar terms a professor of the USC -- in an act of defense of the public university, about an idea that I think somehow consists of the center, the million, of the debate that opens with this bill for the privatization of the university in Greece. And that statement revolved around the idea that it did more to the public university than it did to its three universities, with its seven campuses spread across the country, by social cohesion, by democratizing access to higher education for the children of workers and workers than any ambitious policy of scholarships or university funding, which, on the other hand, has never occurred in this country. And we say that this is in some way the focus of the debate because it was the public character of the university of Galicia that allowed so many sons and daughters of workers to have gone to university. It was the public character of the university of Galicia that allowed the social majority of this country to have access to higher education. It was the public character of the university of Galicia that contributed intensely to the social cohesion of so many poor families. And it's also this public character of the university of Galicia that attracts those who conceive the education of our daughters and children merely as a business with which to cash. Which attracts those who intend to convert rights into speculative capital and do so, in addition, at absolutely obscene prices. And that's why it's because of this unbalanced greed of Abanca and that alignment of the People's Party with the interests of Mr. Escotet that we are today debating in this Parliament about this bill for the creation of a private university. A private university that -- as has already been said -- is absolutely unnecessary in our country. A private university consisting of the negative report of the Economic and Social Council. A private university that consists of the opposite position of the University of Vigo, the University of Santiago de Compostela, the University of Coruña; the opposite position of trade union and student organizations. And that reflects, in a nidio and crystalline way, a clear dialectic: on the one hand, the People's Party, aligned with the interests of the Abanca Foundation; and on the other hand, the public university of Galicia, which stands in defense of a socially cohesive public model and guarantees equal opportunities. Because this is what we're talking about, Counselor. We thank him for coming here to read the legislation and explain to us an administrative procedure that, sadly, we know. In addition to explaining this legislation to us, it would be all right, and to explain that administrative procedure to us, because they had also fulfilled it. Because what we're talking about here is whether for the first time in this country we're going to establish that criteria for access to the quality of the university system or research are at the service of the general interest of this society or the service of the interests of Abanca. We are faced with a model change from the University of Galicia where we had for the first time and we were faced with an intrinsically public model, and that model is going to be broken for the benefit of private university. He said Boaventura de Sousa Santos, sociologist portuguese, honours cause by the University of Coruña, in a prologue -- that will be the book of Xosé Luís Armesto, rector of the University of Coruña, always public Welsh university -- that neoliberalism has always used three factors to establish and implement market values at the university. And these three elements come to be financing, unfair competition and ranking and scientific quantification. Three elements that are absolutely transparent across the whole procedure that we saw for the implementation of a private university in our country. Financing. Since the People's Party's ruling, the 2009 funding data has never been reached in the university teaching program. The difference accumulated in this period 2010-2021 over these EUR 385 million in 2009 exceeds EUR 440 million. EUR 440 million which have their links in the precariousization of teaching staff and researchers; in the lack of staff stability, in particular research, as well as teachers; precarious contracts; in the precariousization of SBPs; etc. etc. And this was the crop broth needed to open the way for this new model change from the University of Galicia, to open the way for a private university in our country. That, as you well say, is done in so many other places in the state. But the question seems obvious: is it necessary in Galicia a private university? Is it necessary when you yourself bring here examples, such as that of the University Alfonso X the Wise, who knows perfectly that it was sold last year to CVC Capital Partners for 1,100 million euros? Why do voitre funds speculate about the future and our children's education? For example, what about the European University of Madrid, sold to the Permira Fund for 770 million euros? And today they have 300 workers at ERTE and students at the stake. Is that the model, the examples you want to implement in our country? So, Counsellor, People's Party gentlemen, SUG doesn't need a private university. SUG needs public sector financing, public university funding. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we moved here, simply, what moves someone so unsuspecting of wanting to take the winter palace as can be the Economic and Social Council, as can be the social councils of the Greek universities -- by the way, the role of the presidents of the social councils of the universities at the Galego Council of Universities --. Or how they transfer it, for example, the principals of the public universities in Greece. The Greek university system can cover with quality, fairness, efficiency, all the training that Abanca is offering, because we are in all light before repetitive offers. We're faced with repetitive offers and with a public university -- as it was said before -- in which nearly a thousand students have been exceeded this year's access to the university. And that the same board of Galicia, which has a coupon closed for the Greek university system, gives free bar to the constitution of plazas in titrations that are being offered by the public university to a private university? And with this, Counselor and Lords of the People's Party, we go to what was all this model of procedure, which has to do with that unfair competition, which in the case of the Greek goes much further. You can't qualify as unfair competition alone, we're talking about obscene immorality, Counselor, that the same entity that was rescued with 8,000 million euros public from the Greeks and Greeks now the People's Party wants to give it to the Greek university as well. That's Mr. Escotet's great contribution to our country and to the University of Galicia: to put $10,000 in tuition to access your private university. It's unfair competition, Counselor, because we are faced with an intrusion of a lack of transparency in which neither the most elementary forms have been kept. It's noted that I don't tell you and BNG don't tell you, it's the very report of the University of Vigo and the Coruña, which says, "the omission of reports and memories..." -- in all the procedure you explained to us -- "...it is a violation of the provisions of the Greek university legislation." But it's just that if we go through -- as mentioned earlier as well -- analyzing the report of socio-economic relevance of the General Secretariat of Universities, Counsellor, we're talking about a General Secretariat of Universities transformed into a marketing agency in Abanca. Assents as "a new innovative and vanguard model", "the high-priority specialization of postgraduate training", "vangardist virtual fields", "academic excellence"... All this, in the report of the body that should watch for compliance and which, far from this, is dedicated to making a panexy worthy of the medieval finders of a private university at prices of unaborbed registrations. [[Applause]] It's unfair competition because, ultimately -- you can repeat it as often as you think it necessary, People's Party gentlemen -- we're doubling existing titles in the SUG. The references to Article 13 of Law 6/2013 of the SUG, which provides that the catalogue of titles must be complementary and non-repetitive, is not complied with. And it is not done without even saving the shapes. But -- it's said before -- it's that we're perfectly aware that the EGADE degree in Business Administration and Management is being taught at the three universities, on the five campuses. How can it be justified, when not even in terms of the name of the title, the forms are kept, which we are not before a title of complementary character? Well, what's he doing? What's Mr. Escotet's dialectic balance? To say it doesn't have a repetitive character because it has a high degree of specialization... because the Greek public university system seems to have a low degree of specialization. That's what you're doing for the good, gentlemen of the People's Party, to privatize the university of Galicia. And the other one happens both to the doctoral programs -- here it was said too --. It is known that the requirements for establishing a doctoral and research programme are that 60 % of the teacher had an active sexism in recent years. And here two doctoral programs are granted without even knowing what teachers are going to give these doctoral programs. So the competition is no longer unfair, it's that you're putting sticks on the wheels to the public university in Galicia limiting doctoral programs for not meeting this requirement and this private university is offered, given, doctoral programs and allowed without even knowing what the teachers are going to be and what their curricula are going to be. And as far as it has to do with bringing us closer to scientific rankings and qualifications, Mr. Rodríguez, rankings offering production and social cohesion, do you think that you can call it the general interest that a worker's son, Mr. Rodríguez, should be required to access this university EUR 7,500 of the first year and 8.250 of the fifth year? Is this general interest? Is this encouraging social cohesion? Is it favourable that the tuition fees for a master's degree program, Counsellor, range between 10,500 and 11,800? Is this the proposal for social cohesion of the People's Party? This is Mr. Escotet and Mr. Abanca's general-interest proposal. Those low-resource families who, as a matter of fact, wanted access to this title, on the assumption that it was not repeated, would be on equal terms? Or is that equal opportunity determined exclusively by the number of zeros in the bank account? We are becoming criteria such as equality, merit and capacity for economic criteria, gentlemen of the People's Party, and it is certainly done -- I agree with you, Mr. Rodríguez -- with the Ministry's favorable report and the favourable report of what is called the most progressive government in history. And he drew attention because it would correspond to him, he also had in his hands to modify this legislation to avoid these kind of universities, where, on the other hand, research is absolutely gone. And she's gone, not because we say so, but through the reports of the University of Vigo. The only reference that the preliminary draft prays for research activity is inaccurate and incompatible with the legislation, which refers to grade studies, university professors, doctoral programs, and confuses inexplicably teaching with research. That's what the Welsh public universities are saying, Mr. Counsellor, doesn't even say BNG. We're in front of a university that has a level of attachment in the territory of such magnitude that it doesn't appear a single line to speak our country's own language. They are international except when it comes to establishing the language of our nation, of our country, that this is absolutely gone. Unfortunately, the productive sectors of a country can be developed. Otherwise, a university can develop all the potential that a country can have, our young people, our potential researcher, without even contemplating the place, the case studies, the culture, the language of the country in which it is intended...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u9	...to sit down. On the contrary, we're at a university that doubles existing titrations, it's only meant to create a looby for social elites that can actually pay these tuition fees and, therefore, from BNG -- it can't be otherwise -- we oppose ourselves and we demand the withdrawal of this bill. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u10	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderero Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Good day to all. The truth is, it gives the impression that from this university file some members of this House have only read part of it. And the truth is, I would recommend that they read the report of the General Conference on State University Policy in greater detail and deeper detail. The truth is that the Galician Union respects university autonomy and the responsibility for coordination with the Galician University System. And the German Government is betting on the public university, an absolute and total bet, because we have Spain's lowest university rates and we are Spain's third community that finances the public university most. Look, Galicia has given a law, Law 6/2013, of the Galician University System, and this regulation has more guarantees than the state, because it requires additional requirements for the implementation of private universities of quality. And the Government of the State, as I said at the beginning when I started, issues the favourable report on 25 November 2020 in the process of recognition of the Intercontinental University of the Company. And once we've done this full and comprehensive legal analysis -- and we're confident, Mr. Lourenzo, of the public officials of the General Secretariat of Universities -- once we've done that complete and comprehensive analysis, this entity meets all the requirements, and the Galician board respects the laws. And in order to comply with the legislation, it is now up to this House to continue its proceedings. The Galician board is betting on by the three public universities without any doubt, and it is not incompatible with the fact that Galicia has for the first time in its history a private public service university within the framework of a non-profit Greek foundation. Therefore, to say, as the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block does, that if this law goes forth it will harm the public universities of Galicia is an absolute lie, the fruit of an ideological stance anchored in the 19th century and the product of a classic populist posture of the 21st century. [[Applause]] It is appropriate to place this theme in the corresponding context, and it was said at the outset: the Italian Government has been working for years and maintaining good coordination with universities that integrate the university system. And, as the Rectors in the Reactivation Commission of this Parliament have stated, the policies developed by the Council through the multiannual funding plans -- by the way, multi-annual funding plans that have been launched with the PP governments -- have served to give stability to the Greek universities and to support their students, ensuring equal opportunities. Galicia bets on public university, which is believed in public investment by the Galician Union, which this year amounts to EUR 451 million, which is a historic record of investment and transfers to universities. In Galicia, university rates are kept frozen for the 10th consecutive year, which means saving families 21 million euros a year, which represents, from the freezing of fees, Mr. Lourenzo, 200 million euros of savings to the Greek families. Even if the Minister of Universities urged more than ten autonomous communities to lower the price of university enrolments as Galicia did! Expenditure on the German university system in relation to its gross domestic product is 0,78 %. I suppose this asphyxiation, which Mrs Díaz said, is budgeting to universities, 0.78% in Galicia, far above the Spanish average, which stands at 0.50%. And during the economic crisis, U.S. approaches to universities were guaranteed. Basque and Galicia were the only two autonomous communities to guarantee multi-year funding plans to guarantee universities. Other autonomous communities such as Catalonia or Valencia, where their governments have drastically lowered university funding. The average price for university credit in Catalonia is 22.69 euros. The average university credit price in Galicia is 11.78. I think this is the difference with the rest of Spain, Mr. Lourenzo. When you talk about the cuts, you'd almost have to quote the 2,000 million euros of bead that left the bipartite to pay for the next generations. So I think we have to be serious about defending the public university as the Galician Union is doing. And he's working on the new funding plan, Mrs. Díaz, for the period 2022-2026, and he's planning the incorporation of 15 new master's and 10 new degrees to adjust the supply of the titles to the new professional profiles of the next decade. The Galician Union respects both the State University Act and the Galician University Act. Not how political parties in this House do. At first he said: Galicia was given good regulation through its own university law, which is much stricter, stricter and more demanding than state law, because the goal is to guarantee quality projects, because the priority of the Galician board was always to have the best possible regulation than to bet on academic quality and excellence in teaching and research. In Spain there are about 40 private universities and Galicia, so far, none. We're the only community in Spain with more than one public university that doesn't have any private university yet. And there were many initiatives -- the advisor said here -- initiatives by private universities in Galicia that couldn't pass the rigorous process of the Greek legislation by not counting any project with all the necessary legal guarantees and solvency so far. The Council of Galicia receives, as stated here, the request of the Intercontinental University of the Company under the current legislation and proceeded to its long processing. This file was reviewed, evaluated and informed up to eleven times by eleven different bodies, which issued the corresponding dictates, including the favourable reports of the General Conference on University Policy of the State and the Galego Council of Universities. Well, having completed these procedures which provide for the regulations, as the advisor here put it, who has all the reports, it is up to this House to have the final decision to approve definitely the creation of the first private university of public service in our history. We're talking about a non-profit centre in the form of a foundation of Greek interest. An entity 100 percent Welsh that invests in higher education, which will create quality jobs and will expand the offer in the course of university education. That will not represent public expenditure and therefore will not subtract a single euro from the financing of public universities in Galicia. I repeat, it won't subtract a single euro from the public universities in Wales. An initiative that increases the freedom to choose Galicia for many students, since it is not to be forgotten that in Spain 1 out of 6 grade students choose private university, they freely choose private university. And where 1 out of every 3 master's students also choose private university. The truth is, opposition groups have spent many years criticizing the escape of talent, but when there's an opportunity to keep it here and generate synergies, they don't agree either. And more so, with this opportunity, not only Greek students can stay here, but we can also attract students from other latitudes. And I would like to value something that guarantees this law: that 15% of this university's income will be devoted to scholarships for students. And 3.5 % of income is going to be for university research. The truth is that it is surprising that there is opposition to an important, very important investment in higher education. The opposition makes this House amends this law by appearing in a supposed duality of titrations. They can't pretend to come here to confuse and manipulate because they know perfectly well that the Vigo Abanca Business School -- by the way, it's been doing important business work -- promoting and financing degree and master's degree in Business Management and Administration for years, as well as degree and master's degree at the University of Vigo. That same titration is also given directly by the University of Vigo itself, so nothing is doubled because there is now and for years now the two degrees and the two masters that are being taught in Abanca and also at the University of Vigo. But in any case, you say that article of the law says that you can't duplicate the titles, in the second round they say in which article of the law you can't duplicate the titles. Besides, I want to tell you that there's a judgment I recommend you read, because it's very important that you read it: Judgment 74/2019, of May 22, of the Constitutional Court. This judgment completely clarifies all the inaccuracies that you use to justify the amendment to the whole and throws down all its argumentaries. The judgment states that no law can be imposed on universities to provide existing qualifications, the recognition that we all have given ourselves, autonomy for public and private universities, cannot be prohibited the provision of a degree. I mean, ultimately, we could save this debate completely because the Constitutional Court ruling makes it very clear that what you are asking for here is totally illegal. So there's complementarity in the law, which is what we need to look for, and that's what the Galician Union is working on, as it's just done with the implementation of the degree of interuniversity master's degree in Artificial Intelligence, coordinating this work with the three public universities. But in any case, the Galician Nationalist Block rejects this proposal because it already openly acknowledges that it is against ideology. What the law says, what the judgments of the Constitutional Court say, what the report of the Council of Universities doesn't concern them too much. If I get this attention from the Socialist Group, because both at the autonomous and state level, they actually exercise or have exercised government responsibilities, and they have also faced a number of similar processes. Of course, you would have to ask them whether or not they share the decisions of the Socialist Party of Andalusia, which created three private universities, or what is possible in Andalusia and Galicia? I don't know if you respect the Constitution -- and here I leave it, Mrs. Otero -- I don't know if you agree with the stage of Rodríguez Zapatero, in which an avalanche of private universities was approved, or now with President Sánchez himself -- who is a doctor and teacher of one of them -- who has just validated the three universities, of 17 presented, including the Galician. And I don't know if they agree with the protests of the Minister of Universities himself. I don't know if they agree with him, where he says textually: "The Ministry's policy is favourable to the creation of private universities." Your government, Mr. Lourenzo, says a government that you have supported, a minister you have made a minister. So you here say one thing, the minister doesn't say anything, they're quiet in Madrid and here they release that speech. [[Applause]] I don't know what has changed since the last debate in the state of autonomy, where the previous spokesman for the Socialist Party said in this chamber, textually, that the private university is in the legislature, that there are private universities on many sides, nothing happens, that it must be guaranteed that this offer does not go against the public universities that exist today. And you, Mrs. Díaz, also said so, but you also said in this chamber that you are not against private universities but are in accordance with legality. Your text words from the 4th Commission a month ago. Because this law meets the legality they already give you reports from the General Conference on State University Policy. Or don't you trust your government now, don't you trust the state reports? But if it wasn't enough, the representatives of the Socialist Party in the Abanca patronage because they also voted, you voted in favour of setting up, within the framework of this non-profit foundation, a university. By the way, representatives of the Galician Union abstained. But I also tell you that the Vigo Town Hall, in that patronage, also voted in favour of constituting it. And, Mr. Lourenzo, the Deputation of Lugo and the Deputation of the Crown, where you cogobernan, have also voted in favour of forming that entity. I don't know what changed, but in any case, Mr. Lourenzo, you spoke here about the ruling of the Economic and Social Council, and indeed there are particular votes. And there are particular votes that say exactly the opposite of what you put here. So you can also talk about the other private votes, I know it's not appropriate, of course. And I also tell you more, Mr. Lourenzo: it's a lie in every rule to say that if you have money you already have access to private university. It's a lie in every rule because to get to private university, you must have passed ABAU and other complementary evidence. No, you can laugh, of course! [[Laughter]] They come here with the speech of confusion. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and they know they're lying on purpose, and they don't care. But, look, the big contribution the Nationalist Block makes, of course, to this debate is a call to break the law. I know you don't like this law, but, look, this doesn't depend on political tastes, nor does it depend on ideology, no, no, no. It's up to you. It's up to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'm done now, Mr. President. Galicia has armored the needs of all our children who access public university. And Galicia bets on the three public universities. In fact, studying at the public university in Galicia is much cheaper than anywhere else in Spain, and this parliamentary group will lend its support to this law, because we respect legislation, because it increases the educational supply and because we are with the educational freedom and the right of families to choose the educational model for their children. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u12	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, amending groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u13	Thank you, President. Mr. Roderio, we are very calm to know that in order to get to a public university, we must have the proofs of access to the university, which really reassures us very much. [[Applause]] Let's think there was a free bar there! What no longer reassures us is that you assume that with a private university we're going to attract talent. That's what we, of course, don't understand that reasoning. What indicators do you manage to ensure that the public doesn't attract you? Don't they realize that with their speeches what they're always doing, and that from their speeches they always subscribe once and for all to the public? And that's very worrying on the part of the party that supports the government, very worrying. [[Applause]] Look, if you see the creation... by the way, I have to tell you that I didn't talk about a private university in that commission, I was talking about the initiative. In Galicia we don't need a private university. We just exposed it. The opposition groups have just exposed it, you don't need a private university because it's absolutely complete all the demand you need. If the creation of a private university is well contemplated in the legal order and it is true that it regulates the university system of Galicia, as well as the general rules of the state, we thank you very much, Counsellor, who came here to remember it, we knew how to read it, we have read it, in addition to, many times, I assure you that this memory, this bill, along with the legal memory, is more than read by this parliamentary group and that there should be no inconvenience in creating a private university if it meets all the requirements of the law. It is surprising, however, that this new university is proposed because it violates, and we say again, the basic standards that we have already set out. We regret that you say that the article doesn't work because the advisor himself has already read it, I read it myself but I read it again, and says, "The catalogue of titles offered must be complementary and non-repetitive with regard to the pre-existing and consolidated titles in the SUG." You come here to give a 15-minute speech, but still, we don't know where you don't see that doubling that for us is the fundamental argument. We don't understand. We just gave, both the BNG Group and us, we just showed up here, a comparison of the titles offered. So we don't understand that evidence, how they can deny that evidence. We are surprised that access to public universities is limited and that it is justified to create a new university that increases the number of places offered -- we repeat -- in studies that already exist and, in addition, that exponentially duplicate the price of those fees. The repeated claim that the project comes to complete the normative and research offer does not deduce or conclude the information provided. Of course, it does not deduce, which makes the allegations of universities, trade unions and the Economic and Social Council itself, gentlemen, to be more than relevant, irrefutable, irrefutable. The project will comply with the laws, we believe it will not, but it will comply with the laws, regulations and legal provisions. But that shouldn't have given you a white letter, it meets the shape, according to you, it meets the shape, but it seems very doubtful that at some point it can comply with the background. And that's what we're worried about, and so, what we're doing today, or what you're going to do today, is open up to any project that appears. And they know there's a lot more to the queue. And unfortunately, we probably have to come here and discuss other projects. Now seeing what arguments, now seeing what arguments they say not to some projects they want to present. The reality is -- by the way, I also wanted to mention here -- I don't know if you know it, of course, I think it's not at all suspicious of progression, you know that the Forbes list has just included some of Spain's 20 public and private universities, some of which are at the top of it, not only at the top of it, they're on the podium, above many other private universities. Which means that our universities already have the standard of excellence needed to continue, to admit, so we can admit that there is no need for any other experiment here. The reality is, during the crisis and years after, the PP governments have lowered their education spending, which has not yet recovered. That's why I don't seem to receive approval from a private university when the Government of the United States disregards its obligations to the public university and to the Galician youth. It is warned that the proposed creation of this university does not provide new evidence that would allow us to conclude that it supplements the shortcomings that may occur in this public university system in Galicia. Faced with this evidence of a project that overlaps with what the public system already offers, that can put it at risk and weaken it, it is necessary to prioritize the three universities that today make up the Galician university system and that have demonstrated and highly accredited their excellence in teaching and research quality and their ability to meet the demands of the student and also of the productive tissue. For that -- we insist -- it is necessary and urgent to strengthen and expand the funding plan, that about which we are now working, and to give greater flexibility to public universities, to, as they demand, adapt to new social and economic needs. And now, President, reiterating our commitment, that of the entire PSdEG, with a public and quality university, with which, by the way, the German Government should count to get out of a crisis situation like the one we found. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u15	Thank you, President. Mr. Roder, it's recommended and necessary to have ABAU, the bachelor's degree too, the ESO... it's recommended to know how to read and write too, and if, in addition to that, Mr. Roder, you've changed 11,800 euros a year, you'll be able to access a master's degree of this PP and Escotet chiringuit. That's the difference with the public university. [[Applause]] But, of course!, I can defend social cohesion, equality of opportunity, equity in access to the university system is proper of the 19th century and, in addition, this seica privatization is also endorsed by the interpretation that the People's Party makes of the Constitutional Court itself. Ergo, the directors of the public universities in Greece, anti-constitutional.; the report of the University of Vigo, anti-constitutional; the report of the University of Coruña, of the 19th century; or the report of the University of Santiago, anti-constitutional; the particular vote of the trade union organizations, three quarters of it; the positioning of the student groups, exactly the same. Everything here is absolutely anti-constitutional, except for the Popular-Escott Party alignment to privatize the university. This is the debate and the framework in which they want to introduce us. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, we're talking about new professional profiles that university has, but it looks like amazing, gentlemen of the People's Party, that have just announced an expansion of professional profiles to which the public university is supposed to have no access. And, curiously, this private university is granted the exclusive of these professional profiles. And when you're talking about the Master's offer, Mr. Rodeiro, please do it by looking ahead to the hundreds of students from the Master's in Education, in Education, who have to go to Spanish private universities, why? Because the German public system expels them. Do it by looking into this university. [[Applause]] And what's the alternative they give them? Strengthening teachers in public education? No, no, no, no. Put private universities and put 11,800 euros ahead of anyone who wants to choose a place for these masters. And, really, then, when they say, of course!, that if the government in which we participate, we accompany -- you no longer know very well what this argument is --...it was indeed the government to whom we gave investment support, but, of course, Mr. Rodeiro and the lords of the People's Party, the alternative you give us is a People's Party giving Vox education counsellors. Therefore, we believe that we have not many doubts in that regard. [[Applause]] And here they come to talk about an administrative procedure, they come to speak of an administrative procedure when they interpret the law, I say it, Mr. Rodeiro, because it seems and has already been told by Mrs. Díaz, Article 13g of Law 6/2013, of the SUG, in which it states that the titrations must be complementary and not repetitive. And as far as I know, administration and business management at the private university and administration and business management at the public university, if it's not repetitive, it looks quite like, ladies of the People's Party. [[Applause]] They talk about administrative procedure when we're talking about 60 percent of doctors who have to have active sex to give doctoral programs at public university, and on the other hand, private university allows doctoral programs without any type of requirement. They're supposed, like the value in the Mili, to say the classics. And when you're talking about reports from the General Secretariat of University, with, let's say, a completely inappropriate terminology of an organism that has to watch for the rigor and solvency of a university system, you come to present a report from this General Secretariat of Universities -- not from the officials, gentlemen of the People's Party, is endorsed by the Secretary General of Universities -- who is dedicated to making a panellist of the private university. The same ones that, by the way, prevent the expansion of public university squares, the same ones that, by the way, prevent the extension of public university titles. And when you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, want to invest in general interest, not that you have a fee of 8,000 euros a year for any child of workers who wants to opt for these universities, equal opportunities? Equal opportunities when asked for 11,500 euros for a master's degree? But in addition, what is absolutely immoral and indecent, gentlemen of the People's Party, is that this is done by the same company that we give to 8,000 million euros from the Greeks and the Greeks, to which we give the German savings, to which, by the way, they are giving the management of the Next Generation, and to which, by the way, they intend to give to the private university. [[Applause]] Because education is a right and not a business, we oppose this bill, and we demand its withdrawal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Lourenzo Sobral. After we have finished the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to the whole and return tabled to this bill. Voting of amendments to the whole, devolution, submitted to the draft law on recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia First of all, we are voting on amendments to the return of the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of amendments to the whole, devolution, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, presented to the draft law of recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u17	We are now voting on the amendments to the return of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting amendments to the whole of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, tabled to the draft law on recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The voting was negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. As a result, amendments to the whole tabled are rejected, and this bill continues its parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u18	The vote is over here. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which is attendance. Mr Advocate of the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report on the progress of the negotiations and the attitude of Galicia towards the development of the future CAP 2023-2027
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u19	Mr. Rural Councilman, Mr. José González Vázquez, has the floor. Excuse me a moment. What happened there? What happened, please, is wrong? Are you dizzy? Well, then let's call the medical service. Oh, just blood. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can move the chair, move the chair out... the chair, the chair can move it. [[Extended break.]] Well, they tell us it looks better now and then we're going to resume the session. In any case, I keep insisting, the chair can move it, and you can take care of it better. Who doesn't want it? Well, she doesn't want it, but we convince her she's better off at best. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't want her, but let's convince her, it's okay. She's better taken care of in the medical services, man, I say. I'm for her's sake, let's convince her. We resumed the session at the meeting of the Middle Rural Counsellor. Mr. Rural Councilman, Mr. José González Vázquez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u20	President, ladies and gentlemen. Good day to all and all. I would like to begin this first intervention by fincapé in one of the most repeated wishes here, in the Galician Parliament, the desire to appear and inform, of course, but also to listen to the position of others, and, above all, to talk. I think it is important for all of us to be clear that in the negotiation of the next CAP, of Community agricultural policy, and of what is going to come to Galicia, we must all build on a consensus, or the possibility of obtaining that consensus. A consensus that is reflected in the joint position that we take the communities of the cantabria, Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country and Galicia -- today I will be again with the advisors -- and that should be reflected, also for the benefit of our farmers and livestock, in this Parliament. But a consensus that is also maintained with agricultural organizations, which are promptly informed of everything that is going on in the negotiation, and also with the Greek cooperatives. They have already heard me on other occasions alluding to the importance of parliamentaryism and today, of course, I want to reiterate myself, because I think that, as far as the CAP is concerned, we need to work together, every effort possible. I think, moreover, that we will all agree, and I'm sure the spokespersons that have to do with the rural environment, in which we are facing a transcendental issue. In fact, only in this year's campaign, which was officially beginning last January 29, the CAP budget is projected to rise to EUR 205 million, of which EUR 170 million corresponds to the direct payments of the CAP, to the first pillar of the CAP, and EUR 35 million to rural development measures. In this sense, and before I begin my presentation on the negotiating position and on what is the matter, I do not want to pass the opportunity, given this intention of being informative, of having an impact on the current campaign, whose figures are more than significant of the importance of these European incentives to maintain and improve agricultural activity in our community. And I would like, in the end of this, to highlight the introduction of a series of improvements this year, to ensure greater flexibility in the process of processing the CAP aid, improvements that we will also count on in the future. For the first time, we use electronic tools to conduct general and private consultations on requests for help. Secondly, we enable a new tool in the SIXPAC application to enable landowners resulting from concentration to share the location of their lands. And in addition, we're moving forward in controlling areas declared by satellite images, monitoring this year of 24 municipalities. Since June we have been working for the present of our farmers and farmers but, above all, for their future, and on this line, and focusing on the question that brings us here today to report on the negotiation of the CAP, on the CAP model for the next run-up period 2021-2027, it is necessary, before entering into the analysis of specific issues, to make a chronological report of what has happened to this day. Since the appearance of Ánxeles Vázquez's own request in April 2018, the will of the Union has not changed, it remains essential to achieve maximum consensus to strengthen as much as possible Galicia's position in the face of the reform of the CAP. Therefore, in the same year 2018 we signed a first document that was signed by representatives of Agricultural Unions, of the Galician Association of Dairy Cooperatives United Nations -- CLUN -- and also of the Glaga Agricultural Association of Agri-Food Cooperatives -- AGACA --. A consensus paper in which we propose at that time a decade of measures for a coherent and truly common CAP -- a good part of these measures continue to remain in Galicia's position -- but also a position from which we do not break ourselves. Therefore, at the end of 2018 the common position of the communities of the cantabrian cornice was already being outlined: Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country and Galicia. A position that over the next two years has only consolidated and to which we count, in addition, with the academic community. Because in 2019 we began to put more effort together with a collaboration agreement with the University of Santiago de Compostela to develop the Strategic Plan of the CAP for Galicia and make this an agricultural policy that really collects Galician peculiarities and defends the interests of our farmers and livestock. And I want to gather here, in this parliamentary headquarters, the satisfaction that the Government of Greece of the work is doing the team of the University of Santiago de Compostela in the defence of Galicia's interests and in the negotiation of the CAP. But it was also the position that the councillor held at the more than fifteen technical meetings in total held in Madrid -- and, in short, via telematics -- in the advance of negotiations on other issues between advisory councils and sectoral conferences. To highlight some of them, I want to refer to a bilateral meeting last April at which I had the opportunity to defend Galician interests in front of the minister. We demand, alongside the other communities in wet Spain, that we take into account our peculiarities in the design and application of the future CAP, further reaffirming the common position defended by the cantabrian cornice. This fair treatment, ladies and gentlemen, was also demanded last Thursday at the last Advisory Council, calling for equity in defining areas entitled to the CAP for review of these European policies. Then I'll explain these technical issues to you. I want to make it clear that throughout this negotiation Galicia is part of the institutional loyalty to the Government of Spain but with the utmost firmness in defending the interests of our farmers and livestock, who are for the Union -- for this advisor and I am sure of you all -- the most important. A position which, in addition to what I said earlier, is combined with the other communities in the cantabrian cornice and which represents our roadmap in the debate of the design and/or application of the next CAP. We continue and continue to make it clear that our territories -- those of wet Spain -- have in common particular and specific characteristics. And I highlight two: the small or medium size of most professional farms, but also eminently familiar. And, in addition, a clear productive orientation towards the livestock sectors, such as milk or extensive meat gain, which distinguishes us from other areas in Spain and points out to us that we have an agriculture and would gain on a territorial basis that also keeps the territory. Peculiarities that should be taken into account both in the design of the next CAP application and in its own application. This is, in short, our main demand from the position -- I repeat -- constructive and loyal that we have kept and will continue to maintain. And from this very position it is from where we call the attention of the central government to some issues that concern us especially and which I will now move to this appearance. Look, the funds -- as I said before, 205 million euros -- are coming each year about 26,000 farmers and yellow cattle. And I'm going to refer, firstly, to the aspects that hit the first pier, because the second pier -- that would be rural development -- it's not yet the subject of negotiation in Madrid. I mean, in June we're going to close the negotiation of the first piar. As far as direct aid is concerned, it is EUR 170 million each year, which is essential for the maintenance of essential sectors for our agriculture, such as meat or milk. I am going to give a note, ladies and gentlemen, that I think it is important for the subsequent debate and that it clearly reflects the profile of the European CAP perceivers. Around 26,000 perceivers, only 74 applications exceed the amount of EUR 60,000 per year of direct aid, which would be the limit of what we will then talk about capping, or of aid that can be received from each holding. Therefore, of 26,000, only 74 in Galicia are over 60,000 euros. And I'm going to talk about a number of technical issues. And by focusing, first of all, we'll talk about the EVO; the positioning of the area entitled to receive basic income support for farmers; the definition of genuine farmer; historical rights and the question of intra-regional convergence; associated aids; the capping or limitation of aid by exploitation; degressiveness and redistributive payment -- question this very important for Galicia, as we shall soon see -- and the echoes. And I'm starting by referring to the right to collect, who has the right or which area of Galicia has the right to obtain basic income support for farmers. As you all know, getting this basic aid is part of the allocation of payment entitlements to a certain area in each autonomous community. Well, until now in the negotiations that were before the CAP, it had not been proposed to extend this area in the whole of the national territory to new crops; something that is on the table now and, if it does not change, of course, it will produce. The collection rights will be extended to the areas of vineyards, fruit and vegetables, which are mainly located by the number of hectares in south-eastern Spain. For Galicia this question is an intolerable aggravation as we are at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous community which is less permissible for the collection of the CAP is one of Spain's main agricultural regions. We have a lot of netizens who don't charge CAP on the surface that is part of their territorial base, up to a lot of hectares that we're currently estimating with the collaboration of the university, but that, in any case -- I warn them -- is a very relevant amount of surface and money for our operators. So we want it to be borne in mind that Galicia -- like the rest of the communities in the northwest, to a lesser extent; Galicia is the mainly affected -- has an area with payment rights far below the Spanish average, a imbalance that must be corrected as a pre-transition step towards a surface payment system or the opening up of new crops. Therefore, for us, like Galicia, as the Autonomous Community of Wales, it is unacceptable -- and this has already made it clear to the Ministry -- that the proposed incorporation of vineyards, fruit and vegetables, zones or crops that have so far been excluded, and which clearly prejudices the surface, the north-west, making this CAP a Mediterranean-marked CAP. In any case, it is unthinkable that this opening should be made to new areas without first regularizing the situation in Galicia, which has -- as I said -- a computational surface deficit for the purposes of the CAP. On the other hand, it cannot be difficult for the entry of surfaces of other uses or productive systems such as, for example, shrub pastures, which are very important for Galicia and which we demand can be incorporated through the national reserve. In addition, what is needed and we demand on several occasions is to be aware of the Ministry's proposal on the delimitation of the so-called regions of the CAP, the agronomic regions, and in particular those where the Greek farms will be. I mean, we know, we have the idea that we're going to reduce the number of agronomic regions, but we don't have their composition. And without that information it is impossible to make any calculation or valuation on both this and other issues about the design of the future CAP; yet this is a request that is currently ignored. It is essential -- and this is evidenced -- that all over Spain reflect the different realities in the agronomic and socio-economic plane. At the very least, account must be taken of the differences between the economic dimensions of the different farms and the differences between the different productive orientations of the different territories. In addition, it is necessary -- as well as on surface -- to provide for other issues such as the staffing and functioning of the National Reserve when assigning rights to new surfaces. New areas where -- we just approved it -- we're going to try to develop agricultural activity with the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act. Ladies and gentlemen, if the CAP does not serve to recover agricultural activity on abandoned land, I understand little enough that it can serve the CAP. So we demand that we open CAP collection rights to new areas if we recover in Galicia abandoned area to do that agrarian activity and, ultimately, to increase the agricultural surface. The second of the relevant technical issues in this area is the definition of a genuine farmer, who in principle would be the beneficiary of aid from the CAP. Here we support the proposal, also defended by the Ministry, to define the figure of the Genuine farmer based on a percentage of agricultural income on total income; but including -- and this was a request from Galicia and is welcomed by the Ministry -- people affiliated to Social Security as self-employed in the agricultural sector. As for that percentage of agricultural income in respect of total income -- which is the people who are dedicated to agriculture and would earn more professionally -- we ask for a minimum of 30%, although in the negotiation with other autonomous communities it will remain at 25%, the position that we also understand is acceptable. But what is not acceptable to us is that, by establishing this definition as a genuine farmer, the Ministry proposes to exempt from this obligation to have a minimum percentage of agricultural income for those who cover less than 5,000 euros, or the amount that is determined -- even though it is talking about 5,000 euros of direct aid -- which will automatically be considered as genuine farmers -- I repeat -- even if they have no agricultural income. In Galicia's view, in the Council's view, this would completely denaturalize the definition of a genuine farmer and is not justified by any technical argument, but rather by the maintenance of an application of the CAP in Spain which is continuing the current status quo. Another important issue -- and that has to do with a topic, we say, of great importance to Galicia -- are historical rights and the issue of intra-regional convergence. I mean, we maintain the defense of our farmers and livestock by way of rights per hectare above other autonomous communities. It is true that from Europe we are being asked for intra-regional convergence, but in the initial position that intra-regional convergence would be 100%, even now the Ministry defends -- and we also agree -- a gradual and progressive convergence that reaches up to 85% in this executive period. But, in any case, we are fully positioned the communities of the cantabrian cornice against a flat rate per hectare, which was the claim of other autonomous communities in the center-sur-pensular. And I pointed out at a sectoral conference that can't be the same -- of course, it's not -- a hectare of pasture on the mountain is seen that on the Plateau of Castile-A Mancha, by setting an example. So we can't go at a flat rate per hectare. So here we continue to reaffirm the need to take account of all the co-existing realities so that this convergence adapts to them in such a way that it is not negligible in relation to the interests of our farmers and livestock. By the way, the minister has often said that the model that he likes agriculture and he would earn in Spain is precisely our own, small and medium-sized family farms and that they also have a territorial basis. Another point that I'm interested in today to deal with all of you and to inform you of how the associated help is. That is, beyond the basic payment, we have aid for certain types of orientations of both cultivation and livestock. For Galicia the associated aid is very important that they be kept at the present level because they are mainly intended for milk, meat and sheep and goats. Here too, we have the Ministry's commitment -- and we thank you -- to maintain the level of aid associated in 13% of the funds available for direct assistance from the first floor. Look, we don't agree -- and so we told the minister -- that a lot of the funds would be mined for a new sectoral programme for traditional olive oil. I have no inconvenience in defending the traditional olive tree, but in Galicia there is no such traditional olive tree. And what if we asked him is that, if there was the defense of the traditional olive tree, we wanted direct help here for the recovery of the traditional brown bouquets of Galicia. And we're going to continue doing that same defense because it's an important amount that's going to be destined for olive trees and a similar amount should be allocated to the recovery of an ecosystem as important to Galicia as traditional socks. Another question I'm referring to is capping, that is, the limitation of aid by exploitation. It seems logical that aid from a certain volume of activity should be limited by exploitation. Degressiveness, that is, money which does not correspond to that exploitation too large goes to where it belongs; and, in this sense, the redistributive payment, which would be that money was for small and medium-sized holdings. We understand that in this area of capping and the degressiveness of payment redistributive the formulations that the Ministry maintains -- together with the definition of the genuine farmer, as I told them earlier -- show the option for maintaining a continuous application of the CAP in Spain, which does not bet on a redistribution of aid to farmers and professionals, family agriculture, ultimately small and medium-sized farms. And here -- understand me, gentlemen -- this is a defense that we make in a light way because it's the Greek farms. And, in this sense, Galicia and all the communities in the cantabrian cornish reaffirm ourselves in the proposals already made on capping, the degressiveness of aid and the redistributive payment. We may give in part of these proposals, but we demand that the final agreement at least take up the following points: The application of capping and the degressive percentages of reduction of aid to the largest perceivers must be at the maximum level to allow the European Regulation to finally be adopted, although it seems that we are going to go to the minimum application. In order to implement these mechanisms, they must not be left out of the invoicing of those holdings, supposedly large, labour costs or payments to external companies, because if we are not making a little trapping on this application of capping. That is why we said that the position is now being taken by the Ministry of Labour to deduct labour costs as well as payments to external companies. We give of course, and we understand -- even if you haven't made it clear that it will be -- that the fate of the funds coming out of that cappping will apply at the national level and not within each agronomic region. This is a subject, ladies and gentlemen -- and I draw your attention to how important this is -- because if the redistributive payment goes through regions it won't benefit us anything. We benefit -- and this is another of the demands we make -- that the redistributive payment is made at national level, that is, depending on the average useful agrarian surface across Spain, because we're half of that useful agrarian area. This redistributive payment should therefore essentially favour the gainful holdings of the cantabrian cornice, notably Galicia, in that area. In any case, what we're asking is for the Ministry to tell us what your proposals are in a clear way before you can make a decision. But I'm telling you, and I'm telling you, at this point, we see that the Ministry has more than tangible disputes about the redistributive payment. He has a lot of pressure -- I understand it -- he said that this was a Sudoku, that it was difficult to combine everything and he has a lot of pressure from the autonomous communities, actually, in which there are preceptors of a lot of the CAP aid. I have to pretend that it is essential -- I said it before -- to know the delimitations that will be new regions of the CAP. I mean, if we used to have 51 and now we're going to go down the number, we have to know exactly what their composition is in order to make decisions. Because it's true that the central government tells us Galicia is not going to go wrong, it's going to be favored, but since June we understand that we have to have all the knowledge of the data in order to make our decisions, or at least you can transfer them clearly as well. I have already finished on the technical issues with eco-chemistry, which, as you know, is also a mechanism that aims to link the CAP with the European Union's green policy. Here too we have a certain concern. We agree that there is an important percentage of the money for direct payments to the eco-schemes, basically because our farmers and farmers are doing well with these sustainable practices, but we regret that these eco-schemes, so we are seeing up to now, address problems and productive realities that are mainly characteristic of the center and south peninsulas. I mean, if we go to the design of the ecosystems -- and then, if they want, we can get into this -- we clearly see that they reach more within the center and south peninsula than wet Spain. This is a common position of the entire Cantabrian cornice, not that of the councillor alone, but that of the four Cantabrian cornice councils. And what are we doing here? We ask -- I think we can all come to an agreement -- that we add echoes that contemplate our reality. A demand that, for now -- I have to say -- is totally obvious by the ministry. But in addition, we want all echoes to be introduced cross-sectionally. First of all, there are no limits on the areas that today have basic payment rights, if you can recover land from sustainable practices as well. That applies to all ecosystems, and this is a fundamental issue for Galicia too, a complement linked to the prevention of fires. That is, if our farmers and farmers with their jobs recover land land and in addition to that territorial base helps to prevent fires, there should also be a prize through the equations to pay those farmers and livestock. We also call for the planned complement for areas on the Natura Network to be extended to areas with natural limitations, which is an important part of Galicia. And we ask, we also demand, that there be a modulation of aid for large extracts, so that smaller ones cover more. And finally, I'm just making a mention to them on the second floor. You know, the first pier is the direct help, the second pier is rural development. Here we -- although this is going toward the end of the year and we could probably have new appearances to talk about the second pillar -- we, for the time being, demand an increase in the allocations of the EAFRD, of the European Rural Development Fund, of at least 5% for the communities of the Cantabrian Corn, taking into account the needs inherent to them. In addition, with regard to co-financing, we also demand that the balance be restored between the approaches of the central administration and the autonomous communities, which were broken in the previous executive period. And we also consider, and this is important for us, that the design of the interventions of this second piar should be carried out by each autonomous community according to the specific realities and needs of its rural environment; based on the establishment of common elements at national level it is necessary, and so we demand, an approach that takes account of, as with the CAP itself in general, each and every one of the autonomys. Finally, the strategic plans go from below, from autonomous communities to central government. I end up as I began, also focusing on that will of dialogue that I hope to see now in the debate, in a desire of the Union to reach a common point between us all, to a strategic position resulting from the sum of all efforts, which, without any doubt and towards the negotiation of a fundamental issue like the next CAP, is absolutely necessary. I think, moreover, that in negotiations of this style, not only at the Spanish level but also at the European level, it is essential to build consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, you already have the Rural Council, the Galician Council, the Cantabrian Corn with the agricultural organizations, which are, as I say, promptly informed of all the progress of the negotiations, and with the Galagas Cooperatives Association as both and as it represents an important part of the operators, the Greek farmers and livestock. And today I also make a request for consensus. After this appearance, having one or more necessary meetings with parliamentary groups, I propose that we be able to move forward together, leaving aside political colors or purely ideological issues, in order to establish a consensus also in the parliamentary field, which will be our strategy, a good starting point for our defence -- in capital -- of the interests of Greek farmers and livestock. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u21	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We turn around the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u22	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you really seem like a fit of hair that 15 days after the negotiation has been closed -- or that you're talking about 15 days to close the negotiation -- you say that from now on we open a negotiation here and that we're talking about here what, if you haven't even had the courage to present to us the document that was drafted at the Galician Council or what they agreed to with the communities of the Cantabrian Corn. We don't have any kind of information on the part of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] To assess the situation of Galicia since its entry into the European Union, which I believe is timely, and the management of successive governments of the People's Party of millionaires funds that arrived in Galicia compared to other territories, it is necessary to begin by saying that in the 1990s and 2000s the fall in agricultural income in Galicia was 25%; that since the entry into the European Union 9 out of 10 farms that existed in Galicia have disappeared; that in the next 10 years more than half of our farmers and farmers will retire and that our country has a remarkable imbalance, with 20 percent of the municipalities that have 80 percent of agricultural production in Galicia and only Mazarics have more milk cows than all Ourren and much of Pontevedra. And all this is responsible, Mr González Vázquez: you, the People's Party, who dismantled the agricultural productive sectors for 34 of the 40 years of government in Galicia. [[Applause]] We left two of the most important sectors in Galicia in this area: the forest, for example, which accounts for 50 % of wood production throughout Spain, but only provides 13 % of state income and a similar percentage of employment throughout Spain; or the dairy sector, which accounts for 40 % of state production but only provides 11.3% of state turnover and 7.2% of employment throughout Spain. That's the balance of the lack of guidance and the wager of your governments, Counselor. While in the 1990s and 2000s in Galicia, as I said earlier, 25 percent of agricultural income, Andalusia doubled that income. You don't represent anything new, you're the faithful representative of those who have the responsibility for this data. Another data to take into account. In the 1960s and 1970s the province of Almería had an agrarian situation like the one that had the worst in the Greek provinces. Today the value of agricultural production in Almería is EUR 3,000 million annually, while in Galicia forest owners receive around EUR 300 million a year. That is, 2/3 of the area of Galicia produces 10 times less than the province of Almería, some data that should be reflected. In 2015 Galicia was obliged to return to the Community budget EUR 55 million of RDP funds from 2007 to 2013, intended by Brussels for the Greek farmers and farmers, for it was not the Galician Union that managed them in time. Galicia has approved its rural development programme for the period 2014-2020 with more than one year's delay, in the queue truck not only of autonomous communities in Spain, but throughout Europe. The Government of the People's Party in Spain in 2009 -- you spoke before that -- inherited a PDR for Galicia with more than 1,500 million approved by a socialist Government, in which the General Government committed itself to reaching more than 320 million euros. In 2012, that contribution by the committed State was reduced to more than 134 million euros, with a spell that was still in place. In the next negotiation, in 2015, between the two governments of the People's Party approaching the state was reduced by around 100 million euros. And he did keep him quiet. It is paradoxical that now the Galician Union demands the state to recover the balance between the arrivals of the General Administration of the State and the Union of Galicia. Counsellor, could you tell me the sanctions imposed by Galicia for non-compliance in the proper execution of their CAP funds in Galicia? Can you be the advisor with the largest number of financial breaches and corrections in the history of the autonomous community? The management of CAP funds in Galicia -- more than 300 million euros a year -- has been characterized by continuing non-compliance. The Galician Union had to deal with the greatest financial corrections due to shortcomings in management that at no other time in the history of autonomy, for the undue delays in management and the diversion of funds from the Common Agricultural Policy in Galicia to managers and beneficiaries outside the Rural Council. In Galicia, we were pioneers in allocating CAP funds to actions that are financed by Feder funds or by autonomous funds, subtracting funds from the owners and the Greek farmers to take the broad band to industrial polygons, rural clues that do not lead to nowhere, children's parks financed by CAP funds in municipalities that do not have a single hectare of agricultural area, rehabilitation of public buildings, to the point that the main beneficiary of the CAP in Galicia is a transnational company based in Madrid. One of the main developments in the new CAP from 23 to 27 is the first-time obligation to draw up a national strategic plan in each Member State, which takes account of the interventions and all the actions launched at the Member State level in the two pillars of the CAP: direct aid and rural development. A new CAP is defined that feeds on unprecedented diagnostic and consultation work. In Spain, he took a look at the process of drawing up the Strategic Plan for Spain for the CAP post 2020, a process of participation that gave voice to civil society, structured debates, congresses, continued interaction with economic and social partners and bodies representing civil society; a specific website, a mailbox, etc. etc etc What was the trial in Galicia, Counsellor? We could see it reflected in the electronic headquarters of the Rural Media Council and the paying agency of the European Agricultural Funds in Galicia: mere links to Community legislation without any information or expectation of creating passive participation processes, and we no longer say active or collaborative, by the Greek rural environment in defining the position and country in relation to the CAP in Galicia. The definition of Galicia's position was based on minor contracts with private foundations, while a process of participation in Europe was under way. I'd like to know if you've ever spoken to the moneywinners and what they need. Mr. Counsellor, how is it explained that today Galicia is 10 points below the execution of the payments of the direct payments of the first stone that Castile-Leon, for example? Galician socialists believe in a model of deliberation, a strategic analysis of the past and the decisions that have been made in the past to minimize loss of non-compliance, maximizing the value of rights per hectare, and above all a model that is consistent with the rural sector itself. We are betting on a CAP that poses the DNA of Galician agriculture around the quality of the product, which has a cost and which must be paid fairly, consolidating the approach of the first piar of the CAP to agricultural income in Galicia. In this sense, we very much welcome the Ministry's achievement in the recent Luxembourg agreement, to ensure the social and environmental sustainability of the Greek rural environment, to transfer the unspent amounts of eco-systems to basic payments, so that 60% of direct aid could be added in 2023 and 2024 to 20% of the eco-systems. Strict and technical analyses are required on the effects of surface increases on basic means of payment and the effects of redistributive payments, beyond short-range press holders. What is Galicia's position in relation to the agro-ecological transition, Counselor? Integration of green payment requirements with conditionality How will Galicia be affected? Have you done studies on conditionality reductions in Galicia? We advocate a great deal of country agreement, beyond the headlines you like so much, Counselor. Could you show me the studies carried out by the research centres of the council for the CAP 2023-2027? We believe in the role of defining the genuine farmer, in the redistributive payment for the first hectares as a measure of protection for small and medium-sized farms, with strengthening the weight of agricultural income in the calculation, in the maintenance of the level of aid coupled to the Greek gain, in compensatory payments for natural disadvantages, especially in the mountainous areas of Galicia. We create simple and accessible eco schemes for everyone, for certifications in ecological agriculture and high environmental value that serve as a foundation for agriculture to serve for the future of Galicia. We believe in the essential character of counseling, knowledge, innovation and digitization and the importance of strengthening the counselling system in Galicia, which accumulated years of delay in the application of the ecosystems, seeking to take advantage of synergies with the agro-environmental and climate measures of the second pillar. In this advisory scheme, we would like to -- and I'm telling you from the heart -- to count on the public research centres in Galicia, such as the ICAM or the CIF of Lourizán, which we just saw published yesterday as it continues to precaution its situation. Counsellor, your model goes through the precariousness of the labor relations of public researchers in Galicia, in the face of stable contracts of investigator staff and a personal scale of investigators as had been done in 2008. [[Applause]] They opt for temporary recruitment lists of investigator staff, of use and removal, and on that path, Counselor, they won't find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Aira Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u24	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. I must begin by saying that it was a long time ago to talk about the CAP in this Parliament, which is also the chamber of representation of our peasants and peasants. It's nice to appeal to the consensus when this is almost over, and we have to sharpen the lack of information about this particular that has so far been in this Chamber, because it is the common agricultural policy fundamental to the survival of rural Galician, but also because it is fundamental to us, so that we can guarantee our food supply. The uncertainty of the agricultural sector is more than justified. There are a number of aspects within this new period that change with respect to the previous CAP and can be vital to ensure, at least, the conditions we have now. Allow us, Counselor, that from the BNG we doubt that this new period will meet the peculiarities of Greek, as much as it tells us of its struggle. This will not only be the responsibility of the Government of Spain, which too, but will be, above all, its counsellor. He says he's very active in the defense of a CAP suitable for Galicia, but I'm very afraid he won't be able to blend in with the cantabria horn, although we won't deny that he's well advised. The CAP is far from being simple or anxious for simplifications. The demands are very high and for Galicia very difficult to comply in many cases, and no doubt many of them little enough to the Greek case, as the Counsellor also reported. With regard to this, there is no uncertainty. He says they're going to speed up and make things simpler, but there's too much digitization in that simplicity for our German countryside and our Internet connections. I'm starting with the basic payment to go grazing a little bit because I said all of this. Galicia has been historically discriminated against by this aid because we received less than 3 % of the funds from the current basic payment, and before the single payment. To govern the PP or the PSOE in Madrid, this has not changed, is it going to improve this situation in the new period, really? Galicia is one of the autonomous communities of the state which has a smaller agricultural area covered by direct aid from the CAP despite having a relatively low useful agricultural area. Are the proposed measures really going to fix this? Another matter of concern is the definition of a genuine farmer. It is up to the Spanish State to define the requirements, already said that they had taken into account the Council's proposal, but did they at some point value that more demanding positions could be compatible with the definition, such as those of the Galician Labour Union or FUGA, which exclude more non-professional farmers from receiving the aid of the CAP but which could be perfectly compensated with other aid from the Galician Union, since their contribution to rural areas is undeniable? We have just been told that concrete proposals have been put forward to improve the Ministry's echoes, because, as you know, it focuses a lot on agriculture and little on livestock, which is a harmful issue for Galicia. We don't know whether they're going to be compensatory or both; if you can, tell us later. Speaking of the schematics, I take advantage to say now that I would have, or had, an unprecedented opportunity to compensate for the extensive Galician gain in his cohabitation with the great carnivores, the wolf and the bear, fundamentally, and to protect a sustainable model of coexistence by means of a specific ecosystem for this purpose. In the current PDR, no amount has been allocated and the discomfort caused by the loss of support is public. The Miteco, by the way, is exploring new lines of compensatory aid but, of course, it doesn't seem to do so at the instances of his advice. The few schemes that are of application to us, such as the pastor's, can count on investments and demands for their justification that make them useless: see the ebook or the expense to have the geolocalized cattle on this land with the illusion of 5.G. By the way, I understand that you know the claim of extensive gain so that the same surface can benefit from more than one ecosystem when it receives different uses. [[Applause]] I wonder if he did use it somehow. In addition, it is imperative that the eligibility coefficient for shrubs and tree underage be improved, because it is the key piece that regulates the final net surface by which it can be collected and its improvement implies a good incentive for extensive gain and, by extension, as you said at some point, to prevent fires, which would finally be some money to ban fires invested with sense. [[Applause]] The capping that Galicia defended already seemed quite permissive, but it was something that could be inferior, for example, I don't know if they valued that inferiority -- he said it affected 74 farms nothing else, which we didn't arrange much -- to have money for other things, with the surplus. It is essential that you seriously bet on this redistributive payment. Maybe if you cheat on them like you give them little money or apply it inappropriately, we hope you don't. As far as I know, up to those historic heights neither the PSOE nor the PP focused their efforts on this redistributive payment, let's hope that it will now change, as it says. And it doesn't seem to be able to specify what the basic payment regions are going to look like. We know from the press that might be 18, much more than originally planned, but we don't know how they're going to be built, nor will there be a single specific for the cantabrian cornice. A very important question would be to assess the consequences of the internal convergence of the CAP regions by the Ministry, its allocation to farms, and this has not been done. Nor is it known from the Board of Directors of the impact it may have on Greek agriculture, nor is it known from an assessment of the Counsellor for Prejudice that causes convergence in this transitional period 2o21-2022. Producer organisations agree that prejudice is clear to our agriculture. However, we are not aware that the Rural Council has taken measures to correct it. Plant production, on farms that in Galicia have little area -- wine, garden -- -- it doesn't seem like they're going to be able to count on help that considers their weight in employment. That's right. Maybe the surface aids are introduced that once again deepen the discrimination of the Galician agriturismo. Let's ask what's been done about it. Because so far wine aid programmes have not been satisfactory for Galicia, as we see, because last year we received 2.05 % of the PASVE funds. We have to fix it, of course. I believe that consensus is shown to be walking. This is ending but you have the opportunity to speak in time for the second piar of the CAP. If we're talking about this, we need to talk about Council decisions, and what measures Galicia is going to use to fund the EAFRD, if it's going to explain it in detail. As you won't give me time I'll go ahead. We are concerned that these funds, which should be used for rural development, are for the financing of a law -- the Land Recovery Act -- and the interests of certain business groups. You said the minister praised our model and we're changing the model to that of latifondium, because it says the land recovery law itself that we aspire to the average measure of Spain's farms. [[Applause]] So it's also alarming that GDRs are intended to be used to execute some aspects of this rule, a procedure that increases the workload of the staff of these groups and completely violates the spirit of the Leader strategy. You claim, from the bottom to the top, to the Ministry of Madrid and here you apply the Council, from the top to the bottom, the instructions for the GDRs, without counting on the real needs. [[Applause]] I ask you to acknowledge that the proposals that were brought to MAPA did not count on social participation, or at least so tell the people I'm talking to. You didn't allow associations, organizations, private people to build these proposals. You go through a committee or you tell the organizations, it's not trading them, it's teaching them, it's different things. [[Applause]] They are fundamental campaigns to dignify agricultural professions, and support for new incorporations cannot be lost. It's essential to follow up beyond the five years of compulsory stay. First of all, to find out whether we spend European money well and whether incorporations are not only incorporated but are viable companies in the future, which is not done. We'd have to secure funds for this. And, to finish -- not least, it's a minor thing -- there were justified complaints from the Galician Labour Union about equality in the CAP. In fact, as far as I know, they sent a letter to the Ministry to correct these deviations, which highlight inequality. This parliamentary group has taken an initiative on this. I beg you to read it, there explains the BNG how this inequality goes from sexist language to consideration of the incorporation of women on equal with that of girls and boys by considering them as beings without luggage, passing by the minor aid to farms that have female ownership, without that being a coincidence, this -- that I say -- that is not innocent. As, secondly, he didn't fall into this question, I beg you to note it as a priority and claim it in the Ministry as if the idea were yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs Candia López has the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u26	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all. I wanted, as a spokesperson, on behalf of the People's Group, to join, of course, the condolences to the neighbours of Ponteareas, and family and friends, and also to extend them to the neighbors of Dozon, and my sense of pity to relatives and friends and neighbors of this council, who also lost to a mayor on yesterday's day. I do, of course. [[Applause]] By centering on the debate, because there are, as the councillor said, 26,000 prospective winners also for what we're talking about today, and after always trying to minimize political confrontation on such an important matter, it's inevitable that you focus or at least clarify some things. First of all, I am surprised, the truth, that protested by the delay in bringing this matter to debate, I insist, so transcendently, when both groups -- my colleagues will not let me lie -- even protested and encouraged their delay when there was forecast to introduce it in the previous plenary session, because of course, we were in full negotiation of an extremely important instrument that was the Land Recovery Act, and they were asking for time to study it. That -- let me -- at least, it shows an important incoherence on its part. But I am even more surprised because, since we took up this new legislation, the only question that was asked in committee about the common agricultural policy, which, of course, was attended and answered in a very rigorous and very serious way, on the part, in this case, of Mr. Balsairo, was by the group I represent. I mean, neither the Galician Nationalist Block nor the Socialist Party did any consultation on it. That's why, when they say today that he's hidden here, that they have no kind of information, because, frankly, they're missing the truth. I don't know if they might be more pendant in Almería, as Mr. Seco said. By the way, I doubted whether the Galician Nationalist Block was actually defending that model of management for Galicia as well. If that's the primary sector scenario that would like the opposition forces. There are three or four things, too, I insist, because the important thing is to focus on the debate of the transcendental issue, which is the positioning of the common agricultural policy, of what are pending, as I said, 26,000 families. I would remind the spokesman of the Socialist Party, who is always pointing out that if the Council makes smaller contracts, that if the Council works with private companies. Look, I've already told you that on one occasion, but it's just that, in addition, now I'm going to say it with more figures. If there is any Government that can be held by the number, by number, by number of contracts, by number of amounts and by amount contracted in smaller contracts, it is undoubtedly the capital of my province. And I'll explain. Only by 2020, 1,343 smaller contracts and almost seven million euros. So, I think with this debate you won't earn anything here. and probably doesn't care about the gloves at the moment either. [[Applause]] I will also try not to leave any matters of the most important of the BNG unanswered. Probably, what surprised me most was Mrs. Aira's reflection that we were going towards a tinnitus model, she said so, and I paid her a lot of attention. Well, that's already... after the sprinkling, of the incomprehensible Russian mountain that you had during the negotiation of the Land Recovery Act, which is probably about the matters on which there was no discussion, and that we had to have instruments to increase the territorial base of our farms, that needed it to improve its sustainability, and that there was no discussion, and even the concept that was used, which was also supported by trade union entities and trade union organizations, there was no discussion, and now it turns out that this objective of the Land Recovery Act is a problem and it is lifted the debate in the common agricultural policy. Honestly, I think we also have a great responsibility for the group I represent, we have to be able to get them the face of that theater that is constantly making the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Applause]] Because you say one thing in the morning, give yourself a roundabout, and then sign the opposite in the afternoon. Honestly, let's be serious. Today we would like to tell the 26,000 gloves and gloves that it is very important that this Parliament -- a respected and respectable institution and, of course, that we constantly put in value -- that it is essential to launch a common position. Man, of course, if they listened to us in Europe, it would probably be hard for some to take the laugh, but the matter is serious. I believe that the future of the common agricultural policy is directly affecting the economy of our farms, and that forces us to be respectful and very rigorous. It's important to send a united message, and it's important to defend the peculiarities, the idiosyncrasy that our primary sectors have. Very important. I recognize that the moment has not been too late either, because, of course, that excessive interest in the forces of opposition in taking advantage of the debate to have a little headline, or a criticism of Mr Feijóo, and saying that he attacked the primary sector, well, with 40,000 expressions here, of course, from my very disagreed point of view, two days after the President of the Government comes out to present the plan of the Councils 2050 and, gentlemen -- listen to the expression -- tell the population that there is less meat to eat. I'd like to see the Socialist Party's colleagues now visit our cattle farmers and beef cattle, our IXP Ternera Galaga, and tell them: the President of the Government says you can't eat meat. And you come here, you come here saying that the Government of the People's Party... [[Applause]] Well, let's see, I recognize that the moment is complicated, but we're going to focus. What we have to decide today is the following: Do you agree that the expansion of the area with the right to receive basic support from farmers' income to those crops that are mainly located in south-eastern Spain should be avoided? Do you agree with that? Because here too, perhaps, there's a political interest. Do you agree with the need to require the Central Government to provide information on the delimitation of the new regions of the CAP, in particular those in which the Greek holdings would be located, in order to assess the Ministry's proposals? In these new regions, the different agro-economic and socio-economic realities must be perfectly reflected. Do you agree with the proposal for the definition of genuine farmers? It was explained here very clearly by the Council. With regard to historical rights and the issue of intra-regional convergence, do you agree that progressive and progressive convergence is achieved? Do you agree that it is a priority to maintain the aid associated with the milk, meat and sheep-caprine sectors, with a provision at least similar to the 2014-2020 run-up period? Do you agree to require 13% of the funds available for direct aid from the first pier -- more than 2 % -- for protein crops, and not to divert 0.62% of the funds for a new sectoral program? I mean, do you agree to demand, in relation to capping, the return on aid and distributive payment? That's what they really want to hear from our gangsters. That's what should be perfectly clear today. Do you agree that in ecosystems it is necessary to address the problems and productive realities of the North Peninsula, which are being obvious and which undoubtedly remains wet Spain unattended? Do you agree to allocate 20 % of the amounts of direct payments to the integration of new ecosystems, which meet the needs of the communities in the cantabria? That's what our gloves are waiting for today to hear from us. And look, I believe that, surely, from the things that were explained here they were aware, not only because Mr. Balsairo explained it, as he said -- and I put it in value -- in a commission before a question to this group that I represent, but because part of these claims which clearly explained the counsellor are signed in a document, together, with absolutely institutional respect, but also with commitment and consistency in the claims that our primary sector needs, signed by the Rural Development Adviser, Gains, Fisheries, Food and Environment of the Cantabria Government, signed by the Councillor of the Rural Middle Ages of the Government of Galicia, signed by the Economic Development Council, Sustainability and the Basque Government Environment, and signed by the Rural Environment and Territorial Cohesion Council of the Principality of Asturias. Obviously, from different political parties. I think it's a policy with a high level of vision, but most importantly, I think it's, frankly, the policy that demands our owners. Keep on that line, Counselor, which I think is why, without a doubt, our rural one continues to place trust in the group I represent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, we could say, in the case of the Socialist Party: today more than that, Mr. Seco, in the sense -- and I have to say -- that, of the ten minutes I had to intervene, he devoted a little less than a minute to saying the position of the Greek Socialist Party on the CAP, beyond talking about how many years ago I don't know. But if he said something that's not right and I'd like him to be clear. When you talk about minor contracts -- Mrs. Candia has already told you -- for consulting throughout the CAP negotiation, an agreement is signed with the University of Santiago de Compostela, which, by the way, exceeds the amount of a smaller contract, and, in addition, the people on that team -- and I would like to express my appreciation for the work they are doing -- gives advice to the Agrarian Council, Mrs. Aira, where agricultural organizations are, and has also worked on all the documentation that has to do with the common positioning of the cantabrian corn. I repeat, we have the belief that in the Greek universities it is the best possible knowledge. Today, before this appearance, I have just presented the Galician Continuous Forest Inventory with the two directors of the universities of Vigo and Santiago de Compostela, and the work is also being done with the universities of Galicia, precisely to do that continuous forest inventory. So, speaking here about private companies and other issues, when we're talking about the work being done by an extraordinary team at Santiago de Compostela University, let me tell you that it's not right what you moved. Look, here was a counselor's appearance in 2018 -- I was a voicer -- and, of course, I listened to his explanations. There was a signature of a first dechalogue of posture, of Galicia's position in front of the CAP, with agricultural organizations, by the way, not with the Galician Labour Union, but with the Agricultural Unions and the Galician Cooperatives Association, in 2019, it is published, that is, you can see. To say that we don't give the documentation, also to say that we delay this when, precisely, it was asked for you, but at that, of course, I don't want to go in, because I'm going to try to explain to you that we are at the perfect moment to be able to sign a great deal of agreement between all the parliamentary groups of the CAP positioning, and that it helps this advisor negotiate better in Madrid in the defense of our farmers and livestock. As you know, the pandemic has greatly hampered negotiations at both national and European levels, and it is true that these negotiations were resumed at the beginning of this year. I want to refer to a bilateral meeting -- because I have all the notes here -- which I had on April 7, 2021, which is, clearly, when the Spanish Government -- and then, Mrs. Aira, we'll talk about the issues in which you have entered, in detail of the issues that interest us here today in this audience -- I say it's the moment when the central government puts for the first time its position. We, up until that moment, had words, we had work that was going to be done in the technical groups, when he talks about that public participation, I would tell him that the theme of the CAP is a technical theme, there are high-level groups, in those high-level groups, the Rural Middle Council, in this case of the People's Party, of the party that governs, and if I were another party, because logically, the autonomous administration, advised always by the university, which is in those high-level groups, and with all the management, sub-directors and technicians of the Council, that, man!, I think they are directors and technicians of all the Greeks and the Greeks, who are perfectly defending their work. In the final negotiation, which is where a political point really enters, there is a need for support from the Council, which is what we've come to ask for here today. We have the support of the cantabria horn, it's true and we don't find it, because we are very interested, we are the main agricultural region of the cantabria horn and therefore we have enough to say. And, of course, if we take the support, as Mrs. Candia said, other three autonomous communities in which they rule different political parties, I can tell you that this made quite a noise in order to move some things in Madrid, which we didn't like how they were working. But now we're at the moment when, after these bilateral meetings -- last week was last week with the General Technical Secretariat of the Council -- yes, we can set a position and we can take a position where I can move, in the final negotiation, that's what all stakeholders in Galicia think, the agricultural organizations, the Greek cooperatives, the university, which is supporting us, and, if possible, the parliamentary groups. And if not, nothing happens, we will go, we understand that we have sufficient capacity to make that defense, but we understand that it gives us great strength to go with parliamentary consensus. By transferring the times to them, I repeat that this appearance, and I am not going into that detail, but of course he spoke and woke up behind it, precisely because we were talking about other matters. In principle, there will be a first closing meeting, and we'll see, and then I'll explain why we'll see, and I'll try not to extend myself as much as in my last appearance. But, let's see, on June 11 we can go there with decisions made in defense of our farmers and livestock, if we first give us the data. Mrs. Aira, you were talking about something, which I don't know about today, and I was talking about 18 agronomic regions. What I really know is that up until now there were 51, and we were always told that they were going to be substantially reduced, because there were 8 or 9; now you say 18 because it went out in the press, I have another number. But the problem is not so much the number of regions -- which is a problem -- the problem is not knowing who we're going to be with in each region, which is what will allow us to do our calculations. And telling him, too, when I was asking about how we could know the impact, man!, I would say that, if you want, we'll talk to everyone -- there's no problem -- with the university, which is who has the computer tools that allow us to do the calculations to know how they can change things according to what Madrid tells us. But first you have to tell us the central government what their positions are, so we demanded here, when I was intervening, that we need greater transparency in negotiation. We can't go on June 11 to make decisions on behalf of all the Greek farmers and livestock if the Central Government doesn't tell us what its preposition is so we can make our calculations. Within what you've dedicated a minute, Mr. Seco, and then if you want to talk a little more about me in the closing shift I can concreteize it, but it's likely that we can agree because, so I took notes here, it happened very quickly as far as the associated aids are concerned; we all agree, both the Block and you. I also tell you, for the sake of tranquility, Mrs. Aira and Mr. Seco, that in principle the Ministry will maintain the level of aid associated with the same sectors; therefore, milk cow and beef cow in Galicia on the subject of the aid associated with it will have no problem. But we say that it is not fair to make a sectoral program for traditional olive trees -- which will carry an important volume of money -- and, for example, it is not considered as important an agroforestry system in Galicia as traditional socks. And when I say agroforestry I say possibility of use in that sense, and we can work to recover it with help from the first pier. And if I don't tell the House either, don't worry 'cause we're going to make that recovery with help from the second floor. But we were saying that if you look at traditional olive trees, for example, you should look at traditional seedlings. And there was another autonomous community that also supported us in that area. Referring primarily to Mrs. Aira's intervention, because if you've talked about matters, and I think I understand the position of the Block, I already tell you, although it seems a lie, that is clearly the position of the People's Party in this negotiation. Look, going first to capping, you were talking, Mrs. Aira, that there are only 74 perceivers of the 26,000 Greeks who receive more than 60,000 euros per exploitation and is right. Of course, if we only apply capping in the 74th of Galicia it would be very little money, but we're saying that capping has to be for all Spain and the money from that capping has to come to the little and medium-sized Greek farms. That is, if there are large farms in Andalusia or Castile-A Mancha that by capping they will stop charging that money they have to come, by redistribution, to small and medium-sized farms. We don't have to say Welsh, but it's because the small and medium farms in the Spanish ensemble are in the cantabria, marked in Galicia. There is, therefore, another subject on which I ask you to support and say that we could see, through parliamentary mechanisms, how we can have that support and how we can have that consensus, which is the redistributive payment. Look, this redistributive payment, if we're not careful, can lead to each agronomic region. We could be in a region, Mrs. Aira, where the biggest farms were the Welsh, so money would go from Galicia out of Galicia. And we say that the redistributive payment must be made on the basis of the average useful agricultural area of the entire Spanish State, because there we go out by winning us, that we have half the average surface of the rest of the national land farms, and that is also what Europe wants. We think that, if we have the support of all -- Mr. Seco and the Socialist Party will have to see, if this does not agree with the position of the Central Government, if they are willing to support it -- but if we have the agreement of all in the redistributive payment, that it has to be on the whole national territory, of course, Mrs. Aira, I would tell you that we are not equal. When you said to guarantee, we will improve the position of our farmers and livestock; therefore, I think it is likely, ladies and gentlemen, that we can come to an agreement there. And I'm asking them, after this appearance, to speak, because we're at the moment of negotiation where one can talk and be able to bring to Parliament a common position, which could perfectly be a shared LNP by all of us, if you understand that you can match them or that you can help this advisor to defend the interests of the Greek farmers and livestock. Ask me if I can find out what the regions will look like. Not right now, but I also tell you that maybe we won't negotiate if we don't get the regions first. This has already been warned to the minister within the position of institutional loyalty, but we have to do our calculations. I can't believe it -- although it's a person who deserves all my trust, that it's clear -- here to the Minister of Agriculture if he's telling me that Galicia is going to be fine. I want the data to see if it goes well, among other things, because -- as I say -- I have the tools to be able to calculate everything that harms us or benefits us from what's going on. We've been given a few lines, that is, we're going to increase the associated hints about the initial position, but we want to see basically how regions are left. You were also speaking, Mrs. Aira -- and, I tell you, I would also like to see if Mr. Seco is right to talk about all these issues, and also about the Socialist Party's stance on new crops. This is a question that was -- we said -- untouchable in terms of the CAP configuration, it could not be opened to new surfaces. Well, we suddenly appear in this negotiation saying that it's not supported by technical criteria -- look -- that they don't cover CAP rights for vegetables, fruit and vineyards; well, we accept that criterion. And what is the technical criterion for winning farms in Galicia with part of their land base without CAP rights? There are no technical criteria either. And what we're saying to the Ministry is, before opening new surfaces, first regulate the situation of those who have not recognized their entire surface. You said it, that Galicia is the third autonomous community in all of Spain that has less area eligible for payment of CAP rights. But, look, the other two, the ones that have less, you know what they are?: Murcia and Valencia. And do you know where all the fruit now opens up new surfaces? In Murcia and Valencia. I mean, they're solving a problem in the Spanish Levante -- by the way, the genuine farmers there have to see them, the percentage they have of agricultural income -- and they're doing it at the expense of all the other autonomous communities -- and we're not going to pass by. Because, among other things, Mrs. Aira, if we go to a convergence -- that the principle was paid per hectare, and that's what we stop with the position of the cantabria horn -- we told her there that we wouldn't even go into a pay per hectare, because that would mean that she'd charge the same acre of pasture in Castile-A Mancha that of pasture -- and besides, if there was a single region -- on Lugo Mountain; and we wouldn't accept it. So we are focusing on the Ministry's position so that Europe would not take an intra-regional convergence of 100 % in this period, but it would be 85 %. And there we thank the position, of course, of the Ministry. But I say our defense until now for that lack of surface were historical rights, but historical rights are going to disappear with intra-regional convergence. So we, if we are going to lose historic rights on technical issues, also want technical issues that there is a recognition of the surface that was not recognized in Galicia in its day. And we're talking about a very important number of hectares, which I'm not able to quantify right now, but I'm sure in pre-negotiating conversations I could tell you that number of hectares. So first, that the historical deficit in Galicia and other communities in the cornice enters the new areas -- but basically Galicia -- for different reasons that are certainly not technical. I'm told by that college team that at the time there was some kind of transcendence that even people were too transparent saying the surface they had. The case is, you didn't recognize all that surface. Our defense -- I repeat -- were historical rights and now they're going to disappear or, at least, they're going to be attenuated by the path of convergence; so we need them to recognize that surface. But we're going further, and I'd also like to count on your support. Regardless of that comment from the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act, I think all of us here will agree that it is important to convert abandoned land into worked land; and we are going to talk about agriculture and gain, i.e., increase the land surface. Look, we're also telling the central government that you have to enable the possibility that this abandoned surface change has also the rights of the CAP and that you can therefore open these new surfaces through the reserve. I think there too, surely, we could come to an agreement, because also this, by referring to one of the organizations that you said, share it with the Labour Union. I'll talk about the others after this show. I spoke first to agrarian organizations and then I'll talk to all the associations that have to do with this subject as well to keep them informed. As for the genuine farmer? Also, Mrs. Arias, we agree, we were worth it, and we wanted a definition of genuine farmer who had been through agricultural income, a percentage of agricultural income from total income. It was said that we were more demanding, that we put 30%, even though it's going to be 25%; that's also worth 25%, that's also what I'm saying, because in our calculations, that's 25% or 30% we're getting favored. What we don't think we're receiving is that, once we define the genuine farmer -- and we all agree that it should be those who earn agricultural income -- that the small receivers don't ask them for that agricultural income. It could happen that someone who has no agricultural income has collected the CAP; in fact, it's already happening and we're willing to change that situation. But this is a position, Mrs. Aira, that I would tell you that in Galicia it would have an impact on a certain number of perceivers; but in other autonomous communities -- how it could be Andalusia -- because it would have a very important effect. Don't forget that everyone, in the end, we have to try to complete -- as the minister said -- this Sudoku and it's very complicated to do it according to all the autonomous communities. He also spoke of an issue, Mrs. Aira, which I am particularly interested in, and these are the echoes. We bet -- and Mr. Seco also asked him -- logically, for a sustainability of agriculture and gain. By setting an example, the model villages are all certified in ecologics in whether there is anyone who wants to develop that activity in ecologics of agriculture and livestock. And it's true, in addition, that we have in the Farm to Table strategy the need to increase our surface. Therefore, ecosystems should be oriented towards a type of agriculture -- you said that too -- they are very much focused on agriculture, but above all, in a kind of gain that is Galicia's own, which has a territorial basis. Eco schemes are designed to keep the territory safe through agriculture and livestock. And with respect to that, it is true that, within the demands that we can put on our farmers and livestock, who are already doing so normally, it is very much affected by the type of gain we have in Galicia. By the way, in addition to the protected geographical indication of Ternera Gallega, which is the main seller in these moments of quality meat from Spain. And he made a reference... that I understand that when they bring their interventions, because, perhaps, in mine there were a lot of data, but I also talked about shrubs. It's that we want it to open up to shrubs, because that's a traditional way of doing here pasture or grazing and, therefore, we defend that it would also open up to a very important amount of surface. We tell the Ministry to do it on the way to the national reserve. He spoke of geolocalized cattle. Home!, I would ask you there, Mrs. Aira,... I too sometimes get over all these things but that's about smart territory, that's about what we're asking from Farm to Table too, and it's about a lot of money coming through European funds, which we have to be able to bring here to Galicia. And I want to value, within the strategy of the Welsh milk sector, the immediate launch of the Galician Dairy Milk Board, which will, of course, reward all those who do well their work; and therefore will come along the path of the geolocation to avoid fraud. I'm not worried here in Galicia because almost none of our glovers cheated on that; but, of course, we're going to try, ultimately, to boost the pastoral care. It is also another of the demands or claims of the Law of Recovery of Galician Land, to be able to work in that pastoral care. I think that as far as the technical aspects of the CAP are concerned, I don't forget anything. I take away from this first turn, of course, the possibility that Mr. Seco would need a little more in the second place on what his position is; and if he wants to wait for a meeting outside of Parliament, I am also open to it. But Mrs. Aira has listened -- I'm sure -- with attention and we have a lot of points to agree with. And I'm done now, as I did on the first shift and as I did at the beginning of my intervention, telling them that, even if it's for your own sake and those who represent you -- because all the Greek farmers will have different ideology but sure that what they're all interested in is that the greatest amount of money is coming from Galicia -- I think it's good that we have a common position in Parliament in Galicia to support more, if it fits, the position of the Union when it has to assume the final negotiation. In this final negotiation, of course, there is no doubt that they should be accompanied by the cantabrian cornice to help us, to be accompanied by agricultural organizations to help us, to be accompanied by cooperatives to help us. But to be accompanied by a statement from the whole of the Greek Parliament on matters that are red lines for Galicia in negotiation, of course, I think it also helps us a lot more. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u29	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u30	Thank you, President. I know you're used to sending, Counselor, but here I come to say what I want, and what my party needs is what I come to communicate on behalf of my organization. [[Applause]] It gives the feeling -- I told him and I told him, besides, on this same stage -- that the Socialist Party wanted to talk about the CAP, and you were unable to convene a single meeting to discuss this subject. Yes, when it is announced that the 11th day will end the period and that agreements or disagreements will be reached, it turns out that it appears with this issue in Parliament, in plenary, but without any agreement. You're not going to make any deal here, Counselor, you're talking about agreements but there's no deal here. It's your appearance and you're talking about taking the next round, which is probably June 8th or 9th, when the negotiation of the CAP will be closed on 11th, I don't know what you want to play with. If you, besides trying to compare the rest of the communities in the cornea, because you say you support it, how do you support it? I suppose it will be a common position of the whole cornea, in which, by the way, in the community of the Principality of Asturias, my party rules. And in the governments of Cantabria and the Basque Country, my party participates. So I think you should understand that the Socialist Party is already part of a base, which obviously supports the position that takes our territory. Of course it supports Galicia's position towards the negotiation of the Common Agricultural Policy! Do you doubt that? It gives me the feeling that you don't want to talk about other issues, but the position you've agreed with the Cantabrian cornea defended this group at their feet. [[Applause]] Mrs. Candia, you're talking about Almería and either you didn't understand anything or you don't want to understand it. We don't want to be Almería. What I was pointing out and I tried to explain to you is that certain governments, for years, with a certain orientation of the sectors, generate a lot of wealth, and in Almería, which was a province that was similar to the worst in the provinces of Greece, now generate profits of 3,000 million euros, which is ten times more than the forest generates in Galicia. They should therefore note that we are not Almería, but in our sectors we have not put political guidance and therefore we collect what we have gathered. And when they talk about minor contracts, I really don't know how they don't get colored. That is, after the news this week on the theme of the Board of Auditors and that the House of Ourense has 80 % smaller contracts, I would really be ashamed to try to talk about this issue when, for example, the province of Lugo does not reach 20 %. [[Applause]] And the Rural Council, without counting the instrumentalities, do you know how many smaller contracts you had last year, Counsellor? 1,516 minor contracts to the Rural Media Council you run. I don't want to go in anymore, Mrs Candia, with all the affection I have for her, for her short passage through the Lugo Parliamentary, when she approved 2.9 million euros, in which she divided between 31 People's Party Town Councils, between 31 People's Party Town Councils, and 2 of the Socialist Party alone, 2.9 million euros. That's your balance. You were talking about 26,000 farms as if it were a success: 26,000 survivors, Mrs. Candia, tens of thousands were on their way under your command. You say the president says there's no meat to eat. Something similar to Almería. I don't think they want to understand what climate change means and the changes in habits we're going to have to adapt to. When the president says: In 2050 we will eat fewer products of animal origin and ultra-processed, but will we consume more local, ecological and seasonal products, do you deny this?, do you deny the reality, that in 2050 this will happen, Mrs. Candia?, do you not realize that we need to come down from......that we need to lower CO2 emissions to have a future for our children, Mrs. Candia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're not saying you don't eat meat, you're saying you're going to change your consumption habits just to try to fight this climate change. Mr Counsellor, the same thing we ask the Minister of Agriculture on his day, who brought to Spain the best of the agreements for our country when we negotiated with the rest of the European countries the Common Agricultural Policy from 2023 to 2027, now we ask you to do your job, together with the rest of the Cantabrian Corn, and bring about the negotiation with the rest of the autonomy of the best possible agreements for our country. That's your duty, and in that game it's not worth what socialists in the state want to harm the People's Party in the Union, this won't be worth it because I won't remind you who is currently ruling in communities like Murcia or Andalusia. Just what I ask you to do is express support from this stage to the position of Galicia and the rest of the cantabria cornea, and which defend the best possible interests of the yellow gandres and then make good use of that common agricultural policy so as not to further dismantle our sectors, as they have done for 34 of the 40 years of Galician autonomy. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u31	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Carmen Aira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u32	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs Candia, if the CAP is so important, why do we have to talk here now about the Deputation of Lugo? Point. [[Applause]] The BNG of good gain, Counsellor, would support the position of the Council in Madrid, of course. But, of course, I've been listening to him very carefully to see if he was able to find out what his exact model of agricultural development is for the next period. Only the CAP is not enough, because we have to talk about a model of services for rural people, about which specific demographic measures we have to tackle uninhabited rural people... I haven't been able to discover that model because I, so a priori, with the little experience I've had in these deals, I can come to think that your model is to remove the surface to the payrolls to deliver it to the eucalyptus, which is exactly what you did with the moratorium and with your announcement. Or restore empty houses in half-inhabited villages, when there are so many destroyed in inhabited nuclei, among others. [[Applause]] And if that's the model, I'd be terrified, not astonished, because I observe. It's time to show that it really defends the model of small and medium-sized family farms for the Italian countryside. And this is what's going to be like this, because we haven't seen the European MPs of the PP or those of the Spanish Parliament ever complain because the Duchess of Alba had taken 40 million euros for unproductive land, as do other Latifundists today. So that's unheard of. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The BNG must remind the Government of the Union that it must finance the Greek countryside with something more than money that sends us Europe, because it seems that the Union has no budget, and that is why we expect them to fall from heaven. The mayors of the PP came using Leader funds to extend their budgets and now you seem to do exactly the same with the Council's budgets. Today he should commit himself to effectively defending the rural as a whole, not only the CAP, the rural as a whole, because I think that same commitment only has it with the Land Recovery Act. Are you going to bet on injecting funds on the second floor or are you going to land solely on the co-financing that Europe is forcing as they have been doing secularly at this point? Every use of European money that goes to implement agricultural land, that poor law with which your group went on top, so much that they forgot about the money briefcase. You've won the race to consume European funds, and we have no doubt about it, but we're already more confused about how it's going to be used to improve the Italian countryside with it. Have we quantified in the Council the real investments that will lead to the future model villages that have just appointed in the medium term? Between their creation and restoration of buildings, are they going to let them turn into shallow bags and then not follow-up? Have you seen the possibility that it's a rotent failure and that in time you'll have to do something with your corpses for whom to rule? This CAP is a unique opportunity to kick our common-sense farm, in a way solid in time, not impulses. There is a chronic need for training, research and counselling, to make the inhabited places habitable for the people who choose to stay in them. Junta has an obligation to finish once there's a need to be heroes to live in rural areas and, more importantly, to live in rural areas. End by stressing how comfortable it is for the PPdEG to rule the PSOE in the Spanish State. They are waiting for the BNG electoral program to use its terms in the confrontation of wear and tear with the Government of Spain even though today the Counsellor had not done so. [[Applause]] But don't be deceived, because in their hands our words will never mean the same thing as when we use them. And it's funny that it's now, with the PSOE government in Madrid, that the PPdeG is aware that there is an agriculture and a gain in Galicia, because when they were ruling there and when they were ruling here, you didn't do much for the Greek countryside until now. And just as the Counselor opens a new era and, of course, if he does, he will have the BNG's congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u34	Thank you very much, President. In these five minutes, probably, listening to the first words of Mr. Seco's second intervention centered and gave me foot to really understand why sometimes we disagreed so much. Mr. Seco said: I come here to defend what you need, or to do what you need, my party. That's, really, where we put each other in place, and why we say and do some things and others say and sometimes do even the opposite. We, in this intervention, have more than ever seen to defend what the farmers and livestock in Galicia need. It is likely that it also benefits the People's Party, as it has benefited you in recent years, because the livestock and farmers, although you often accuse them of non-compliances, and I send myself to the eucalyptists, who pay so much attention to the representatives, here, in this Parliament, of the BNG... who, of course, I want to invite them to go to the Navy, never accept this invitation... we, if we do things well, undoubtedly, betting on that useful policy, if we succeed, as well as the People's Party, but -- I insist -- that's not our main objective. [[Applause]] Look, I don't know if you look at Almería or if you put it as a reference, I understand it that way. The truth is, I paid a lot of attention to him. And I didn't talk about the Lugo Deputy, nor did I quote her, Mrs. Aira. I was saying a fellow of mine -- Lugo's guys are going to know, without the quote, who is -- that to understand first you have to answer, because already in the college first there's the "a" and then there's the "e." I'm just referring to the Town Hall of Lugo, which has nothing to do with Deputation. If you want to explain why I have to talk to you about the Deputy of Lugo, because if you ask me a question and an attack of my time I explain it, because I have made a territorial rebalancing plan to compensate for the sectarian division, first Mr. Besteiro -- which, obviously, now does not get much to shine -- and now that you've come to make Mr. Tomé good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's right there, which are mathematics, and what you measure doesn't need to be interpreted. And look, one last point, about whether the president of the Government recommends eating meat or not. I, of course, have no health criteria, which I do not have any kind of training, but with the gastronomic criterion, yes I recommend it; if it is Galician and Ternera Galician, much better. But my opinion was entirely endorsed by Mr. President of the Agricultural Association of Young Farmers, who addressed the President of the Government in these terms: "As President of the Agricultural Association of Young Farmers I see in the need to address you to express the deep distress that has caused our organization and throughout the sector to gain its recent manifestations on meat consumption and the need to change the current patterns of consumption." In fact, as you also said, we were also responsible for environmental attacks. I'm probably going to tell you many of the educational activities that many of us could write down to learn how to take care of our environmental world and our ecosystems, because, no doubt, in great masters, we have our farmers and livestock. They're not in any way people who attack our environment. Counsellor, you came with humility -- which I very much thank you for -- to explain to this Parliament and to the Greeks and to the Greeks all your work to achieve a common agricultural policy good for Galicia, good also for the voters of the Socialist Party and good also for voters of the Nationalist Block of Galicia; because you think, uniquely and exclusively, for our farmers and livestock. I would like to ask you to follow that attitude, because, without a doubt, we always try to avoid absurd debates. And we said it in the Agrarian Recovery Act, with which I cannot hide the terrible disappointment of incoherence, the lack of responsibility, fundamentally, of the Nationalist Block of Wales, which came saying one thing in the morning and in the afternoon the opposite, and even being very doubtful at voting. And I tell you, of course, that we are looking for instruments to increase the territorial base, of course, very much in relation to this debate of the common agricultural policy. At the last point, he will probably continue to talk about what we want to hear, and what our farmers want to hear, which are those decisions that will affect them directly in their pocket, directly in their farms, and that is what we have to talk about. And that's why I thank you for the full transparency, as you did in the commission when you were asked, and if others didn't ask you one of two: or you already knew it, as Mr. Seco acknowledged, because you were told about Asturias, or simply and flatly, that you had no interest, but not because the Middle Rural Council had hidden information. You go on that line, I think it's a decisive step to take a very important stage for our primary sector. And, of course, the group I represent, as it cannot be otherwise, will help you to work in that direction with responsibility and owes you first to the Greeks and then, as well, not to the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. Close the courtroom, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. If they don't mind me, I'm going to close up by talking about my book, which brings us here today, which is precisely the CAP, the Community's agricultural policy. First of all, I would like to refer to some things that Mrs. Aira also questioned in the sense that here she did something that is quite common -- at least so I detect it -- in her group, which is to move the negotiating frameworks. We were good at first talking about the CAP and then we went out with other things that I didn't understand, why? Because I thought we might need more questions. But you're talking about the second piar, and I've already told you that the second piar is no time to talk about it now. We're doing a job -- in this sense, I inform the House -- on the part of the university, of the group, we've thought that at the end of June they make us a first proposal from the Greek strategic plan for the second floor and, from that, of course, we'll start the same path that we're doing with the first pillar, which is going forward in the negotiation and trying to inform both the agricultural organizations and, in their case, this Parliament. I wanted to make it accurate, and believe me, what I'm going to say, this is complex, technical and difficult. I used to do with him, I don't have any more remedies, it's also true that the people who advise us explain these things very well and some of them have been able to understand them. Look, even if we wanted to put money in the eucalyptus, that no, what you're referring to, because there's no public euro cent for planting eucalyptus in Galicia, the first piar is only for farmers and livestock, Mrs. Aira. We would have to talk about forest interventions on the second floor, but the first one is for farmers and livestock. So now we're talking about bringing better money to Galicia for farmers and farmers. It's not the question of removing the area of gain to give to the eucalyptus today, but it's about the first pillar, which -- I repeat -- is for farmers and livestock. About the Duchess of Alba, who also commented on you, it's important that you know that now, with capping, we'd cut into the 100,000 euros that the Ministry says, and it would be 60,000 if we were left with Galicia's position. And as for the fact that we don't have Greek money for farmers and farmers, I'm telling you that cofinancing is 17.5% of all money, because it comes to 800 million euros and we put 17.5% more. Mr. Seco, I'm going to talk a little bit about your intervention, because you said something that interested me. First of all, I want to apologize if at some point in my previous intervention it seemed that I was saying that I was having the rest of the autonomous communities of the Cantabrian cornice, it was not my intention. I simply said that, within the cantabrian cornice, the main agriculture and gain is Galicia, because by size we are the fifth of all Spain and therefore also in the cantabrian cornice we are the main ones. From there on, it is true that we have a position in which there is a lot of consensus on the part of all of them. But he said one thing -- and then I'd like to say if I didn't, I'm sure that's what he said -- he said that his parliamentary group, the German Socialist Group, approved, he agreed, at his feet together, with the position that defends the Cantabrian cornice in the common position, even said that there were several of those autonomous communities that have to do with the Socialist Party. It was a contradiction to his previous position, in which he said we didn't even know about this whole thing. But, in any case, Mr Seco, the position is published, and in addition, it is there with the logos of all the autonomous communities. And I'm going to tell you that, then, I'm going very glad of this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Because the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia does not seem appropriate -- as the text says -- says, "We find it inappropriate -- I apologize that you read in Spanish --, we find the MAPA proposal to include in the concept of a genuine farmer those who receive less than a certain volume of direct aid regardless of the weight of agricultural income in total incomes." That is to say, the Socialist Group does not seem to fit that position and therefore defends the interests of the Greek farmers and gainors against the position of the Ministry. This document also states that "it is unacceptable to propose the incorporation of vines, fruit and vegetables, so far excluded from the payments disbursed and at the same time intended to make it difficult to enter surfaces and other uses or productive systems which were not declared at the time of the establishment of the former single payment and cannot be incorporated later." The Socialist Group also supports this position, which defends, in this case, the Council of Galicia -- I am sure that the Block too -- against the position of the Ministry. This document also says that we reaffirm that we are entering the common position expressed, already in 2019, by Asturias, Canturia, Galicia and the Basque Country, in favour of applying, as far as capping,..., remember that they will go to 100,000 euros per exploitation, and we defend -- also the Nationalist Block Galego and now, as I see, also the Socialist Party -- that capping will apply to 60,000 euros, that 100,000 euros?, 60,000 euros!. And besides, we're saying that they don't disagree -- and also the Socialist Party will agree -- the labour costs. However, the Ministry says that labour costs must be discounted. And pay attention: "and those of the service companies." But let's see, we're talking about there might be a company that receives aid from the CAP for €300,000 and will be able to reduce the costs of work and, in addition, the costs of service companies. This is a joke, this is a joke. I therefore understand that you have now supported this position. But look, what seems most important to me -- and I'm going very quiet too -- is that so much -- I'm sure -- the Block, because it has already said it first, but now also the Socialist Group, will agree that "the redistributive payment, which is essential for Galicia -- 20 % of all money -- the redistributive payment must be allocated to the hectares of each holding under the average U.S.A. per exploitation in Spain." If we take a common LNP of all of us in what we just say, I can assure you that we benefit tremendously our farmers and livestock, and today I draw the conclusion that we can reach that agreement because we are all here in agreement, because you told me: this position can be defended at the feet of you. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? I understand that when a counselor comes here... I don't deny him that he has his thing, come here and I say: to see what blows they give me this time -- in the figurative sense, I don't say anything else -- but I come here, let's say, in an idea of trying to reach agreements to support our negotiating capacity more. And I finish as I finished in the first and second speeches: I ask here today, and I also ask for all farmers and farmers who can listen to us, that all parliamentary groups be able to agree, even if it is in a minimum agreement that benefits in the final negotiation our farmers and livestock, because that is the objective that encourages, of course, this councillor, the entire Council and the Council of Galicia: to defend the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u37	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue with point 3 of the agenda, motions. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to employment and the improvement of employability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u38	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs. Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion:Additional amendmentAt point 2, the following text should be added: "...in which standing persons do not feel hostage to their benefits from companies that present offers because no one wants to work on them, since some are the conditions that they register in the Office of Employment and others that transmit to them the unemployed."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mr. Daniel Pérez López, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this motion:Additional amendmentAdd a new paragraph to the resolution with the following text: "Insulting Galicia's meeting to ask the Spanish State to transfer all those unaccompanied powers to date by the Greek Government on employment, especially those related to unemployment benefits.")]] Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor to defend the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. In the past we questioned the Employment Adviser about the ineffective functioning of the Public Employment Service in Galicia. We analyzed the non-compliance with the objectives of the same, the placement of job seekers, the improvement of employability in relation to the lack of custom itineraries. The lack of employment search plans, as well as the total lack of measures in relation to employment and stability promotion plans, with measures to follow up and incentives to employment. And we gave, in relation to the first objective, a very enlightening and alarming data: of the demand for jobs that were lower by placement, in the first quarter of 2021, which were in particular 6,845, only of these, 163 were placements managed by the Public Service of Galicia, only 2.4 % of the offers. In relation to the aim of the Public Employment Service of Galicia to broker between companies and claimants, the Council, in this parliament, said nothing; it's something you don't care about. Galicia is the second community where, with the same rules, the more unoccupied demands grow and she doesn't care about the tools she has to increase placements. In the first four months of this year, only one 2.6 of the placements were intermediated, compared to 6.9 of the state average. That's not what they say. It is because of this situation that we urge the Galician Board to establish tendering procedures that enable the Public Employment Service of Galicia to achieve this year a level of job-related discharges managed by the employment offices, by the public service job offers, equivalent to the average of the state, and for next year to be located among the average of the five communities that have a higher volume of bids in relation to placements, which we already spoke of Estremadura, Andalusia, Aragon, Canary and Asturias. The lack of tender processing also has to do with the lack of capacity of the employment offices to stop the processing of an offer if the conditions offered to candidates differ substantially from that established in the offer itself. That's why Joina is urged to establish procedures for the classification of applicants and the management of offers in which stopped persons do not feel hostage to their benefits to companies that present offers because no one wants to work on them, since some are the conditions they register in the office and others that transmit to the stopped persons, and, as I said, there is no procedure in the offices to stop these offers. The advisor was the one who talked about the execution of the finalist employment funds. This interpellant never used that concept, because it's excessively ambiguous. We said that during the Feijóo government they left without spending 762 million euros of the funds for training in employment, that redundant person who said, I don't know where that data is coming from either. It turns out an insult because you haven't checked anything that's been lying for months and every time you say something different or different. The data used are those provided by the different governments of Feijóo, annually, to Parliament, by programmes. Once again, he's trying to call us fools all by saying "obviousness." He told her that the successive governments of Feijóo left without actually spending 1,540 million euros. In other words, with outstanding appropriations in concrete programme 32, job promotion, labour market institutions between 2009 and 2020 amounting to EUR 4,424 million, they left without spending 1,540 million. With which Junta was able to carry out commitments on labour materials with absolute diligence, commitments on expenditure. We never said they didn't pay the recognized obligations, it was just missing. They told him they left unrecognizable bonds worth 1,540 million. Of these 1,540 million, you will need to know which part corresponds to finalist transfers and which part belongs to own funds. In view of this failure to implement, we call on the Council of Galicia to ensure that, with the funds of the Union's own funds not spent, it provides a key skills training plan to enable it to acquire the competences of 2 or 80 % of the people lacking it in four years and to put in place a joint plan for the acquisition of experience and training in key competences for at least 10,000 non-perceptive persons. In view of this usual lack of recognized obligations, we urged that these vigorous appropriations for employment policies be met, and that applicants be offered the work of improving the employability agreed on in their integration itinerary. If we analyze the data that has facilitated counsellor Lorenzana, the first thing we've checked is that she's a good student from whom she was also a counselor, and she's the secretary general of Beatriz Mato, because she's lying, lying in the data. The big lie, because it's half true, is that Galicia is the first autonomous community in the state in April on unemployment, both at the inter-annual and inter-monthly level. And it says textually: "When in Galicia in April it decreases by 5.50 % the number of unemployed compared to March, Spain decreases by 0.99 %." But if we pass that statement to unoccupied applicants, who are also included, as you know, those suspended by training, who do not count, or other causes, the advisor, if we transfer that data, I would say: Galicia, 6.3% and the average state decreases by 1%. But it is easy to unravel this statement. In Galicia there were at the end of March 195,010 unoccupied employment demands, and during April there were 33,906 higher demand demands. These 228,916 active demands must be reduced by placement, of course, which take place in April, namely 6,333, and for other reasons, 4,411. Well, then we have the result; we have that by the end of April there would be 218,172 active demands, i.e. an increase of 11.9% over the month of March. In the State, however, the increase would be 7,7 %. Galicia would be the second largest community, after Basquedi. What happens in April is similar to what's going on this whole year, except in January. In this month Galicia increases by 10.2, compared to 11.4 of the state average. In February, the increase is 10.2, compared to the 7 state, and it is already the second community with a larger increase. In March it increases by 9.2, with an average state of 6.6; and this is the real situation of the unoccupied demands in Galicia. Galicia is the second largest unemployed community in three of the four months of 2021. A situation like this cannot be admitted by Mr Feijóo, Mr Feijóo, and we have to devise some devious machinery, because solving the problem of employment is not what they do. Beatriz Mato, as you know, cheated on the suspension codes: in Galicia he was suspended by orientation, and when a person was suspended, he passed on to not enlarging the list of unemployed, with a famous key, to 698. He was sent to Sepe with a key for training suspension, 621, but here he was suspended for guidance. And this was verified in Galicia, as was lied to in the unemployment data, as Feijóo lied in this case. The Mato stage doesn't know if it can still be used, but in this situation it was already insufficient, and there was a need to eliminate more demands. Despite being in a pandemic situation, with an agreement from all communities to automatically renew demands and not put people at risk who might have to go to the employment offices, the automatic renewal is eliminated in Galicia and there is a flood of casualties due to non-renewal. In January, for example, there were 18,208 casualties, and 10.2 of the increase in active demand in Galicia compared to 11.4 of the state average. It's up to 1.6 to 10.1 of the state, including non-renewal casualties. In February, for example, 18.186; instead of 10.2 increase in Galicia compared to the 7 state. Galicia presents a 2.2 and the State a 5.6 increase in active demand. So, too, in March and April. This is the shameful procedure that fills Feijóo's chest with counsellor, with the decrease in registered unemployment. They resume the demand renewal obligation when the number of cases reported in Galicia from the vault is greater, and when only Euskadi does. [[Applause]] The average discount for non-renewal in the first four months is 17,832. This data is more than twice the average between 2017 and 2019, the last four years. Nobody can say they're not low for fear of cowardice, or because, of course, they don't trust the Galician Public Service to give them this proper mediation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u41	...because they don't do anything about it. Non-renewal casualties in April accounted for 73% of active demand reductions, while in the state as a whole they were 21,9 %, and are data that tell the truth of what is happening in unemployment in Galicia, and of the truths of the holders who set up both the president and the advisor. Nothing else in my first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u43	President. The economic, social and labour situation in Galicia is very worrisome, and this is shown by the recent survey of Pollage, which places unemployment as the main concern of the Greeks and the Greeks that inhabit the big cities. But the concern is more than justified by considering the data of the Labour Population Survey for the first quarter of the year 2021. According to this, in March of this year, there were 6,800 unemployed people in our country more than in March of 2020. And although the unemployment data recorded in Galicia in April might be considered positive, they see the following. On the one hand, that we are far from regaining employment at pre- pandemic levels; that the most punished collective in this case were women and boys. And finally they find that, even though the service sector has been one of the most affected during this period, employment is being destroyed in the industry. The reason that Galicia had ended April with 9,900 unemployed persons less than the previous month must be considered, necessarily, a good news, which, by caution and responsibility, should be relativized. It is not appropriate to breast-feed the same, as the Government of Greece does, because the explanation of this improvement in unemployment data must be directly related to the increase in seasonal recruitment, coincident with the Holy Week and the favourable evolution of the epidemiological situation in Galicia. While this month of April, with respect to April 2020, there are 10,88 % fewer unemployed, the reason we found that in that month of April 2020 we were in full confinement, at the hardest of the pandemic, which clearly affected the rise in unemployment in that month. The comparison suits the Government of Greece and the PP, but it is not fair, because it cannot be achieved in this month of April, at least by the numbers preceding the declaration of the alarm state. If in February 2020, which is the last month of normalcy, there were 166,000 unemployed, in April this year there are 4,500 unemployed and more. As for the contract, 88.62 % of contracts signed in April of this year were of a temporary nature. The high levels of temporality are still one of the chronic shocks of the German labour market. This has already caused a very large number of workers to remain, at the beginning of the pandemic, in a situation of absolute disappearance, because precisely by the nature of the temporal nature of their contracts were the first to be fired, and they were unable to accommodate the protection shielded by the ERTE, and in many cases the social protection measures adopted in that period. As far as membership in Social Security is concerned, there is no recovery of pre- pandemic levels, and it is true that membership rose in April this year, but if we put it in relation to the month of February 2020, which is precisely the last month of normality, we see that there are 12,600 less affiliated people. As for the people in ERTE's situation, in April there were about 30,000 people in Galicia in this situation, and it's important to remember that people in ERTE don't count as unemployed. Although since the BNG we do not agree with legislation that allows companies to resort to ERAs or ERAs without any administrative control, and even substantially modifying the working conditions, with the result that this is detrimental to the life of the working class, it is true that the ERAs have greatly dampened the destruction of employment that the health crisis could have caused, at least at the very first moment. If well this mechanism was effective to facilitate the return to work of those who were affected by the first suspension of their contracts, that is, in the first state of alarm, that effectiveness has become diluted over time, so that the possibility of re-integration is diffused when we talk about the longer-term ERTEs. And so did the Banco de España in its report published at the end of March. That slowdown in the exit of the ERTE does not but reaffirm what since the BNG and the majority union in Galicia, such as the IGC, have been warning for some time, of the possibility that the ERTEs become extinct, which would prove that this clause of job maintenance jumped through the airs in many ERTEs, and many of these workers would begin to widen the unemployment lists in a short period of time. In view of this situation, we have taken the Commission, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, an initiative to implement a women's employment plan, focusing on the re-integration of women expelled from the labour market by coward-19, those who are in a position of inactivity; to implement an employment plan for youth, with the aim of breaking the precariousness and structural temporality that characterizes this collective; and, within the active employment policies, we call for the implementation of guidance, employment and training programmes specifically directed to long-term workers at ERTE, and we logically applied for the full implementation of the funds for active employment policies as a whole. The initiative was supported by the parliamentary group, in this case, of the PSOE, but vetoed by the People's Party, because for the PP and Mr Feijóo's Board it seems that everything is going well, very well, simply because in April unemployment and affiliation data allow a moderately positive reading, and above all because, compared to the state average, we are not so bad, or so express it. Well, no, we're not going well, and to see it I don't need to look at, in this case, those who are worse than us, but to do a realistic, honest and critical analysis of the situation in the Galician labour market, just what the PP doesn't do, which continues to apply the same lines of continuity from the Employment Council, whose advisor, in his speech in the past plenary, of which this motion brings about, he constantly spoke of actions in the medium term, actions that were on schedule, or actions in which we are working. There's no medium-term value, nor is there any "we're working on it." Given the situation of the German labour market, the most likely crisis -- serious crisis -- which is continuing, and after one year of the establishment of an Employment and Equality Council, what we demand from the Galician Council is immediate actions, not promises of future action. That is why we have agreed on many aspects of the motion by the PSOE Parliamentary Group, which, from a general point of view, calls on the Board to make a comprehensive change to the functioning of the Italian Public Employment Service. It is essential to create the guiding category in the Galician Union, so that these mentors have specific training and knowledge in the field of work orientation, because so far the vast majority of mentors and mentors are listed in group B and therefore with a qualification not necessarily related to the inclusion of work. As for the work guidance programs in collaboration with entities, they have proved to be very few, since the guides of these entities often work in precarious conditions, wage conditions and work instability. And that, despite the need for the requirements required to access as technicians, and given the paradox that these technicians do not have access to employment offices, precisely because there is no guiding category: the fish that bites the tail. And, for more reason, the guides of these entities do not have the necessary resources. The lack of effectiveness of these programs, corroborated by the very few numbers given in place, is aware of Joina, who has been talking about making changes for more than ten years and updating them but never getting it done. As for custom itineraries of insertion, they assume that the guide opens a procedure with an unemployed person defining his professional profile, work goals and interests, marking a roadmap for reaching them, usually through training. But the problem is, precisely, that having a custom insertion itinerary implies preference to be able to access certain courses and little more, there is no continuity in that insertion route. Because another problem that also exists is the disconnection of the labour market and the German Employment Service. Companies do not believe in the Public Employment Service because when they resort to it on most occasions candidates do not have the right and required profile by the company. In addition, the Council on which this service depends is sick of anticipation; with the current system they were unable to anticipate the need, for example, of qualified personnel for the construction sector -- a reality, as it is revealed by the different provincial federations of construction -- and this is what it means is missing in the system. Even so, the Employment Adviser, in her 15-day speech, talked about employment strategy, which in the medium term would be modernizing the placement mediation processes, analyzing the needs of the business fabric. Exactly what he also announced for the month of September in this same atrium. The problem is that more than seven months have passed and that announced modernization of the system that responds to the needs of the business fabric would still, at best, be in the medium term. But the situation of thousands of unemployed Greeks doesn't allow further procrastination, the measures must be taken immediately to be effective. The PSOE motion focuses on the aspects of public employment services assumed by the Government of Greece, such as active employment policies and placement, of course that the competition of two administrations, the autonomy and the state, in the field of employment creates important imbalances. There is hardly any data communication between the State Public Employment Service and the Public Employment Service. An unemployed person, when he quits at the Employment Office, doesn't distinguish the state from the autonomous side. That person believes that, with the delivery of his curriculum vitae in the Galego Employment Service, it's all done, but that curriculum vitae doesn't update, and when there's a highly qualified job offer he won't go out as a candidate because he technically doesn't meet the requirements of experience, because SEPE didn't share that data with the Public Employment Service. Not to mention the problems that have occurred since the beginning of the pandemic so that workers at ERTE could have access to unemployment benefits that depend on the state. Delays and dysfunctions were constant. That is why we are proposing an amendment to add to the request for the transfer to Galicia of all those powers not assumed by the Greek Government until now in the field of employment, especially unemployment benefits, by concentrating all those competences on employment in the Greek Government, i.e. training policies, job promotion and benefits. Public employment services could be enhanced for active job search by adapting them to the socio-economic peculiarities of our country, thus optimizing results and facilitating processing for unemployed and job-seekers. In short, to advance in self-government and political sovereignty, political sovereignty which is not an end in itself but a toolbox that would allow us to improve the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks, guaranteeing rights and social justice. Political power and full sovereignty is the key to building a Galician that does not go back but continues to move forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u44	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I looked at the agenda of the plenary, I observed that the opposition groups -- in this case, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party -- incorporated the initiative on how to combat unemployment in our autonomous community -- the interpellations in the previous session, today the subsequent motions -- and I have to admit -- believe me -- that I had contradictory reactions. On the one hand, I believe it is good that the opposition forces make proposals and finally present specific measures. It is clear that society expects us to be able to debate, to be able to wake up and work on the same common goal; that it can only reduce the impact of the pandemic's labour and social crisis as much as possible. And at least this parliamentary group and the Government of Galicia are in the process, committed to this objective, as it is demonstrated day by day by the measures that drive the Union of Galicia. But I have to say that, unfortunately, after listening to the speeches today in Parliament's gallery and reading of the proposals included in the motions, in this case, of the Socialist Party, I have to say that it is very disappointing. There are no positive measures, there are no constructive proposals, and there are only measures that do not deepen on the subject. And it's also true that in speeches they simply repeat the very worn-out argument on the left in terms of employment, which has been shown to be false. Because, frankly, Mrs. Rodríguez Costa, many of us think it's not very serious that the Socialist Party, the party that every time it reaches the Government fires the employment data, come to this House to teach about how to fight unemployment and precariousness. Yes, Your Honor, it is true that the Socialist Party and the socialists in precarious circumstances are real experts. Look, if we remember, we're talking about González. González has left thousands of unemployed as a legacy of his Government. If it's not worth González we're talking about Zapatero... no, we're coming, we're coming... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about Mr. Sánchez, we've updated the data, and his left-wing government: their unemployment rate is at the head of the European Union. That's the balance. And while you're installed in Moncloa in self-comprehensiveness, it's true that Mrs. Employment Minister, Mrs. Díaz, has only managed to put Mr. Manuel Lago on full employment, who put you at the Navantian Council. But it's true, in full employment... yes, yes, yes, but the workers of these companies do not have the same luck. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Of course, maybe you dare talk about employment to send errands between government partners, because it's true that Mrs. Díaz isn't your party. But there you are! Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that your income to combat unemployment is not valid. The worst unemployment data always happen with a socialist government, always! The fight against unemployment is a matter in which the Socialist Party and the Government of Sanchez are crashing sharply. And so don't ask us to apply in Galicia the employment policies that are failing in Spain, don't ask us that. They don't ask us that what hasn't just worked out in the policies they've designed since Moncloa is the roadmap to follow in Galicia, that's not what they ask us to do. And besides, every day they have worse occurrences -- this has been said before -- really, you guys, it's not very serious that the big measure of the marketing plan Spain 2050, which presented the Socialist Party with many fireworks, the big measure to improve the job opportunities is that in the coming years we stop eating meat or eating less meat? You explain this to our autonomous community, explain it to rural Galicia, explain this nonsense to the hundreds of men and women who strive every day to take their gainful exploits forward. It is true that you and your measures are a danger to Galicia, and the evidence is here, are not on matters that concern the Greeks and the Greeks. And it's true that you gave a lot of figures and you added a lot, you made a lot of numbers and yet the numbers didn't give it to you. Because he was adding, pulling one side, another... but still the numbers didn't give him, because what he didn't tell was the objective data and the real data, because you omitted them both in the rostrum and in the motion. [[Murmurs.]] And they show -- no space for the slightest doubt -- that Galicia is in a better position than the rest of Spain, also on employment. Galicia is Spain's first autonomous community, with the latest official data of April, on unemployment both on an annual and monthly basis. And there's also a wide difference with the average data in Spain, because when in Galicia we dropped by 5.50 the number of unemployed compared to March, Spain decreases by 0.99.4 points minus. When in Galicia we decreased by 10.88 the number of unemployed compared to April 2020 -- that is, at the peak of the pandemic -- in Spain, the figure worsened and unemployment increased by 2.07. While Galicia drops unemployment by 10.8, Spain at the same time increases unemployment by 2.07. And if you don't want to believe the unemployment data -- because we've already noted that you have little harmony and little confidence in the employment office officials -- they've created at least the Social Security data, which says that those 20,000 unemployed less than Galicia has for a year now correspond to the 27,000 affiliates that have the most social security for a year. And if they want us to talk only about Galicia, we compare the situation with the last time you ruled, the two-party government. The unemployment rate is about 40,000 since this government arrived again in April 2009. In April 2009, registered unemployment included 210,662 persons, and in April 2021 registered unemployment included 170,778 persons. And if they don't want absolute numbers, let's go to the percentages: in the last year of the bipartite unemployment was growing at 31.9 %; currently, despite the pandemic, unemployment is falling at 10 %. That's the difference! And, please, I don't know what happens to the statistics, to you, Your Honor, and also to Mr. Knight, who listened to you a few days ago, but they must review those documents because they have some mistake. It is not true that in Galicia we have a low execution of employment budgets, because the latest data closed in 2020 say that the Greek Government has committed about 84% of the current budget to active employment policies. Galicia is the first autonomous community by number of aid published, and Galicia is the third autonomous community in active employment policies, only behind Extremeura and behind Basquedi. This data, as you will understand, completely dismantle what you're saying. Look, ladies and gentlemen, if they really want to improve the Galician labour market, they have the courage not to try to transfer Moncloa's revenue, which they fail. Or make the Government of Spain pay Galicia in time and form the funds it receives from Europe in employment, because here -- as the advisor said in the past plenary -- they will manage better than nationally. The People's Group and the Government of Greece are prepared to promote courageous reforms and sound reforms that are needed to improve the functioning of employment offices. It is not, as you ask, to recover chiringuitos like the territorial employment pacts, what you've assembled -- I see the honourable Member laughing, remember them yet -- that they are a model to Susana Díaz, which is already seen as it ended in Andalusia. [[Murmurs.]] We rely on the professionalism and capacity of staff at the employment offices and will equip them with more means to do their work. For example, with rural entrepreneurship poles, with a specific entrepreneurship office that knows the business fabric of the area and that can guide the training and the entrepreneurship in that area. These improvements are being studied within the framework of social dialogue. If they want to join these constructive proposals they will have all the doors open, but they do not ask us to apply in Galicia what does not work in the rest of Spain. Every time the Socialist Party governs unemployment it will grow and that's why it will understand that we can't vote for its initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u47	Every time the Socialist Party governs Spain unemployment grows and that's why we want to go to Galicia, it's not that unemployment grows, but that it lowers unemployment and reduces unemployment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u48	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u49	Thank you, President. You speak of a disappointing motion, and it is disappointing that you voted against the first initiative presented in this Parliament by the Socialist Group to simply make an action plan against youth unemployment, which knows what is going on. [[Applause]] Disappointment is that we are presenting another initiative on the female wage gap that women suffer in Galicia and on their situation, and voted against. That's disappointing. [[Applause]] And disappointing is that I speak on this initiative of President González or President Zapatero, and it is not agreed that the unemployment league won Rajoy in 2013, in 2013. [[Murmurs.]] Disappointment is that the People's Party believes that a worker can survive with 600 euros a month and yet come the Socialist Party and say no, and raise that salary to over 900. That is disappointing, fellow Member. And it's also disappointing that they've undertaken a job reform with an attack on collective agreements, which you know, and a lot more, and that's really disappointing. But, from the initiative, what? From what initiative, Mr. Balsairo? It turns out that what we're asking for is, simply, a series of points for the Public Service of Galicia to work, and that it works at a given time, and that's not spoken of. The counsellor made a statement in this Chamber. It says: the employment strategy that the Council has goes on to the short term, as we are seeing, for measures that include liquidity in companies. Right, right, this is one of the issues that we need to clarify. All the measures related to companies, with liquidity, are employment measures? Because I remind you that the Council has three general directions, it has the General Directorate for Training and Placement, it has the Directorate for Active Employment Policy and Labour Relations. We don't talk about work relations, of course! because it turns out there are H conflicts, which close stores that are profitable, or there are conflicts in Adolfo Domínguez, that we lost 100 jobs in Ourense, but it turns out that the counselor is neither expected nor expected. That's how the Employment Council works. [[Applause]] And it turns out we have a loss of jobs in the textiles, textiles and other industries, and we don't find ourselves analyzing what's going on in the German labour market and then making an appropriate plan for these bees. No, that's the policy that the Galician Council and the Employment Council are doing. And the aids that came out with respect to pemes and autonomouss came out late, badly and never. When, suddenly, in March -- March 14, -- if the alarm states, we have to stay until November to get the help out. And then we have to wait until February. They're still not running the second ones, they're still not running yet, and waiting for the third ones. And besides, you're doing just that when your skills -- and you know it -- are economics and Igape, I think you're ignoring your skills. And of course they need liquidity for the Greek companies and with the fastest and fastest speed, as they do other governments and other autonomys. The People's Party, when it reached the government in 2009, derogates the Decree of Territorial Covenants, which is not, of course, a chiringuit, quite the opposite. It's just that the Work Council doesn't say this is going to go to you and this to you, which, by chance, we already know what political colour employment plans and job workers go to. And we can make a relationship since they went back to rule after the bipartisan. This was all the opposite, this was to analyze the situation of the labour market by pacts. Then there was proportional distribution, a proportional distribution of budgets for these entities. And a detailed study of the needs of the labour market, which all mayors agreed on, also those who were not of the Socialist Party, because Galicia does not everything work like the Deputy of Ourense. There are certain Members who work differently and there are certain governments who also want to work differently. [[Applause]] The concept of a territorial employment pact has already been presented at the European Council in Florence in 1996 -- this is not our idea -- a penalty, a penalty -- and supported by the Dublin European Council in December 1996. In that case, they approved a list of 89 areas selected by national administrations for the implementation of this initiative. And in November 1999 the European Union's Structural Funds published the Guide to Territorial Pacts for Employment 2000-2006. It comes from where these territorial pacts come from, these chiringuitos you call. They establish this framework of action based on the European Employment Strategy and on the regulations of the Structural Funds. And, as I said, its role is to bring the level of intermediation closer to the area where policies are developed, or where employment policies should be developed, and the creation of coordination frameworks, intervention by different administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u51	...and social agents. That's why we urged the Union to change, to re-establish these territorial pacts by a decree, obviously, new. As for the amendment -- a moment -- of the Galician Nationalist Block, to tell you that... we're going to see!, we'd understand that there was an order to manage unemployment benefits in Galicia, obviously. The issue of total benefits transfers is complicated with regard to quotas. Quotas know they have to be, of course, a single box.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u53	...so, we would accept the management order in that case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u54	Thank you. So we suspended the session until 4:00 p.m. Today we have time to make a balanced diet, we will eat meat and fish, both. We have time for everything. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u55	We resumed the session. Motion by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Paulo Rios Santôme, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to youth employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u56	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Rios Santôme has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The history of the Galician youth can be counted in three acts, like any classical history. And these three are also the options that join the girls in this country: unemployment, precariousness or emigration. I spoke in 2019 already in an act on youth and employment, that being a girl in this country meant knowing that you're going to opt for one of these options, for precariousness, for unemployment, or for emigration, and two years later we see how this remains true, and being a young woman in Greece is knowing perfectly that, if you have work, it's going to be precarious and temporary or you're going to have to search for life outside your land. These statements refer to the serious structural problems of our country, and it is a direct cause of the policies developed by the People's Party over the past 40 years, policies which relegate our country to a mere exporter of cheap labour and which only serve to expolate our natural resources and our raw materials. All of this, while the industrial sector, the productive sectors, the public services are dismantled and Galicia is intended to be a theme park of the Xacobeos, tourism and low-cost accommodation. The fundamental problem of this low-cost culture, which has begun more generally in 2008 with the previous crisis, is that low costs also mean low rights, and they end up falling into completely deplorable conditions and a generalized impoverishment of the working class. It's no wonder, then, that we live a historic fact where the incomes of the capital have already surpassed the incomes of the labor. The youth labour market is characterized by precariousness and palliative temporality, in which the Galician youth has no economic capacity to develop their lives properly or to think about having an autonomous life plan. And that's not what I'm saying, but it's also what the German Demographic Dynamic Observatory says in its last report, at the beginning of this year. This body speaks of historical marks in the numbers of youth emancipation. Currently, only three out of ten girls under 30 live outside their parents' home. If we talk about youth under the age of 25, we talk about 80 percent of people who still live in family residence. It also points out this report from the Greek Demographic Dynamics Observatory that the figure between the ages of 25 and 30 is not so high, or we can say it's low, but by a key question, by mass emigration of girls in that age group in recent years. And why does this happen? The causes of this phenomenon are found -- and I quote textually the observatory -- in the temporary and precarious contracts that prevail between young people in Greece and in the difficulty of accessing a decent housing due to the increase in rental prices. She also stresses that it is unthinkable that, in a country with so much empty housing, young men and girls will continue without access to a quality housing. As I know that in this chamber there is a special complaint about comparisons, Galicia is the sixth territory of the state where most young people have to live in the family home because they have no economic capacity or opportunities to start a life project, sixth but at some percentage points of nothing, it must be the first where this happens. How can you say then that everything goes well? Why does the People's Party try, over and over, to drag us to an idyllic Galicia that only sees them? Why does the Union escape from reality and refuse to reformulate its action in this matter? The truth is, I don't know what's bothering me any more: whether they can't do it or not they don't care about it. This is the panorama facing the young people of Greece who were already facing before the crisis of the coward-19. As I won't get tired of saying, this crisis didn't add new problems, but it brought out the problems and structural uncertainties that we already had. After a year of crisis, we see again how youth is one of the most hit sectors of society, just as it had been in the crisis of 2018. We talked about a year with the destruction of nearly 20,000 jobs between girls aged 16 to 29, where only two out of ten young women in Greece recovered the lost job because of the vault-19, with a very remarkable impact on the service sector, with 7,800 jobs less for youth than in 2009. Just last March, as was also mentioned in a previous motion, the temporary contracts signed by youth represented 87% of the total contracts signed by youth, while the undefined represented only 7%. After this year of pandemic, youth account for less than 20 % of the German labour market, with less than 200,000 taxpayers. But this isn't just for the pandemic, our country has lost half of the workers under 35 since Mr. Faixóo ruled in Junta. We lived a historic fact in our country but for bad, unfortunately. At present, persons over 55 years of age exceed those under 35 in employment and activity. How can a country have a future with this data? The adviser, in the inquiry of only fifteen days, spoke that the data provided in this initiative and in the interpellation that took place were out of date and that in April there had been a growth in affiliations and, in particular, among new people. I hope they don't make the same traps today and they don't shield themselves from throwing data without interpreting them, because, like every year for these dates, we observe a remarkable increase in affiliations and contracts signed by youth. The problem with this is, once again, to keep us on the headline. I've already said on other occasions that in reality he likes to impose his criteria and that we can't think that everything is okay when employment grows in the summer season. This is nothing more than because of the phenomenon of seasonal employment, a precarious and tremendously temporary job that meets the needs of the hiring of accommodation during the summer campaign. Who do we intend to cheat on with this data? Do you realize that seasonal employment is nothing more than an alms for young people in Greece? Young people don't want alms, they don't want to work three or four months a year on work days of ten and twelve hours while they're on four. The young gals deserve a decent job all year round and, as they say colloquially, "of theirs." I'm surprised when the councillor says it's hard to talk to Parliament that the host would make up 75% of our country's total jobs and, above all, claiming that this is a good thing. A country and a youth cannot grow and prosper in this kind of holiday resort where our country is becoming. What are the people of the metal going to eat, what are the people of the industry going to eat, what are the comarcas like Ferrolterra or the Navy going to eat, and the researchers, and the workers of the sea, and the workers of the field and the livestock, what are they going to eat if it's not from the hostel?, a low-cost hostel, as I said before, that this brings precariousness. What country are we leaving them, ladies and gentlemen, the younger generations? But let's go down to reality for a moment. Yesterday in the press, a study carried out by Sondaxe, who was quoted today in parliament headquarters, in the seven cities of Greece about the people's concerns, and do you know what is the number one concern in all the cities of Greece? Employment and unemployment, clearer water. If we listen to the councillor and to the leaders of the People's Party and everything goes well, how do we explain that the first concern of the population of the cities of Greece, especially in youth, is employment and unemployment? And this happens in cities, where there's a higher concentration of employment, also for young people, what about the youth who lives in villages and lives in rural areas, what do young people expect to live and work in their villages, what can they possibly have without having to move to cities? Practically none. At first, he said that the young people in Greece know that being young in this country means unemployment, it means precariousness, it means emigration, and the studies confirm that. Has anyone from Galician Union ever spoken to youth? When there's a problem in some sector, as we've seen recently with the hosts, with the hair salons, with the different representations of the industrial sector, we see that there are meetings, we see that there's some planning, we see that there are certain proposals, and what about the new people? who responds to the specific problems of young people in Greece? And why don't there be specific youth participation channels with Join? Why are girls in this country systematically being despised and not allowed to have voice or vote on things that affect them directly? I suppose, as always, it's better to sweep the problems under the carpet, that young people go marching on it or going into temporary contracts indefinitely, and when they're done with the 31 because they'll stop counting on this statistic. That's easy. But the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the model they've been installing in our country for a long time. The advisor said, also in the last interpellation, that neither the Union nor the state nor the European Union knew about employment, that the BNG knew more than all those institutions and bodies. Well, at the BNG we don't know more than anyone but we know that this job model only benefits the powerful, it only benefits those who have the most over those who have the least. What we know is that we're here to defend the exploited, the oppressed, those who can't afford a rent, those who are expelled from their country for lack of opportunity, that's what we know and who we stand for, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we don't know more than anyone but we know which side we're on. So they stop shielding themselves on interested data, get down to reality, talk to the youth, realize that what their situation is and they stop selling us that country of wonders, that Galician wonder that, unfortunately for all, is only in their head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u59	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Group we will support this motion because we share the need and needs that are claimed in it. We have, for a long time, a serious problem in our country with the settlement of our youth, which makes us have an older population every day. The difficulties that youth is living are not only reverting to the weakness of their personal autonomy, but also altering the generational relief of our society, and they can break the sustainability of our state of well-being in the near future. Against the poverty risk rate defined in the Europe 2020 Strategy, in Galicia in 2009, 25.46 % of Thursday between 16 and 24 years of age was at risk of exclusion or the poverty threshold. This data is terrible, especially if we consider that the year 2019, which is even worse, after these two years of pandemic, can become an even more devastating data. It therefore calls on the Government of the United States to take serious measures. The Demographic impulse Act adopted this year includes guidelines that will remain in mere declarations of will if they are not accompanied by public policies that set out concrete measures and with sufficient budget. We have in our country, besides, Spain's third best university, according to Forbes list, although the president of the board is not worth it, because he's more busy pushing private university. From our public universities, many perfectly trained young men and girls come out of Galicia every year and have to leave Galicia as well. [[Applause]] They have to go out for work, work according to their qualifications. Look, the first months of this year -- the first I think it was in January -- the Observatory of Persons entitled, at the University of Vigo, issued a report on the impact this brain drain was supposed to have on the Greek economy. This report pointed out that the expenditure of generating graduates and emigrants is at least EUR 178 million a year if students finish their training at the age of four, and EUR 311 million is over at the age of seven. A sad fact, too. And without forgetting, besides, and we can't forget, that discouragement of our young and young gales who, with little prospect of employment, have to choose to continue to form or to emigrate to other contexts with greater possibilities but out of their land. To the negative of this loss of population, in addition, the circumstance is summed up that over these years it is when people settle their lives and their families. So, what does a law of demographic impulse serve as the one that has been approved and that aims to promote the birth of this country if our young people have to emigrate? And we have nothing to push in these circumstances. Forced emigration can't see it as something of the past, because official data from the Board is estimated at 300,000 the Welsh and Germans who have packed their bags in recent years. Look, the two fundamental pillars that support the settlement of a person in a given territory are employment and housing. And in our community these pillars are of sand, they are of sand, and so they reveal to us the data of the EPA, the last data we had from the first quarter of the year, which reveals a juvenile unemployment shot up to 37% in Galicia. The jobs offered between youth are, in addition, scarce, in many cases precarious. The excessive weight of temporary recruitment rests in youth, and this puts this collective at the forefront of labor adjustments in times of crisis, as we are seeing. Therefore, there is a need for an evaluation of existing policies so far in the field of employment, in order to analyse, firstly, what they failed to do and, on the basis of this, to do an analysis of the existing situation, and to develop a new employment plan for youth. The Galician Union must bet on youth employment programmes that offer these young people a decent, stable and quality job. And the other piar of what I was talking about was the house. The housing, in addition, is strictly related to the previous one, since, with a low wage and a situation of work instability, access to housing becomes something totally unattainable. The high price of dwellings and renters in Galicia makes their desire for independence unattainable for youth. He spoke of the BNG's emancipation rate in Galicia, which is a terrible rate: only 16.6% of people between 16 and 29 years of age can live in an independent home in our country. The housing policy of the Galician Union in the last decade has been a total failure. It does not make a protected housing of public construction, and the one that is made of private construction, being also very scarce, still has such high prices that they remain unable to access it. There are no measures that effectively help access to a rent, which, on the other hand, grows progressively, and this causes frustration between our young and young people because they cannot achieve this anxious independence. In the towns and cities of Greece, in the big cities and larger villages, they said that in the case of minors under 35 -- another report came out -- the renter ate 88% of his income, and the purchase ate 61%. That becomes something totally insumable. We have to take into account the experience of other places, and this experience shows us that it is a great advance when we create a balance between the proportions and the tenure of the housing park, between apartments on property, rent and official protection, and that there is a great advance in this possibility of access to a housing. So in terms of short- and medium-term political strategy, I think we need to look for that balance, that housing-oriented balance, and not forgetting that having a house is neither luxury nor privilege, but it's a right collected in the Constitution. Said Hillary Clinton, in the 2009 crisis, said a phrase that was that a good crisis shouldn't be wasted. Well, speaking of youth emancipation policies, I think this crisis we have right now could be the driving force for a change of social, cultural and political paradigm, to think of a new social model that allows youth, the difference from what happened in 2008, to get out of this crisis, and live in it, and overcome this situation. I believe that reactivation, whatever kind of economic reactivation, is betting on youth. The president of the Government of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, also knows and shares it, and that's why he announced a few days ago a youth employment shock plan with 1,365 million euros. And, therefore, Feijó cannot continue in this inaction. It can't be that the only policy of the Galician Union on housing and youth is to open the doors to young people and girls for them to leave. So, and with this over, it's necessary for the Board to make policies to give our youth a future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very early on. Mr. Ríos, I've been observing you since you arrived at this house in the Galician Parliament. It's true that you're young, it's just arrived, but, as you always take advantage of your interventions to make an attack on the capitalist model, so perverse and that it does so much harm to the workers and the workers in our country, according to you, I, the truth, is that I'm waiting, I'm hoping to explain to us what the country of the non-capitalist world is -- in this case, coming from you and coming from your group, it will be communist, I want to imagine -- that we should take as a model. Maybe we're confused, and I hope you can illustrate us in the replica, which explains whether in Cuba, China or Venezuela -- for not going to North Korea -- young people live happily, in full employment and with stable and quality jobs. [[Applause]] So that's what you're saying is that the Galego Nationalist Block is confused with economic model, everyone has to choose its water, but then you don't want to convince us that in the Galician Nationalist Block they're moderate, they're moderate when they don't have a chance to be otherwise. Since the People's Party we have not discussed the need to maintain this debate, it is good that among all of us we take an approach to the situation of young employment in Galicia. We would have no problem in debating proposals, for example, on how to boost generational relief, which offers new opportunities for our boys, about policies that contribute to the retention of talent, or about how to encourage entrepreneurship. But first, if you want to be honest, if you want to be honest, you'd also have to explain to us how you can pretend to defend Galician youth when you are members of the Socialist Party. Home!, the Galician Nationalist Block is a member of the Socialist Party, they are partners! Here are partners in many Galician municipalities where the Socialist Party has never won elections, nor has the Galician Nationalist Block won elections, and they're ruling us. They're partners in three of the four deputies, and they're decisive partners, yes, decisive partners, yes, this has to be repeated every time, every time. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they are decisive partners in Mr. Sánchez's investment. [[Applause]] And I'm saying this because, if German nationalism questions and does not value the policies of the Union on youth employment, whether they seem to be of use to them, or rather, to those that you apply to the councils with the Socialist Party where they rule, to the various MPs where they rule, and they also seem to be worth what Mr. Sánchez has applied to them since Madrid. They're worth it, too. Actually -- and actually I have to say it's teimuda -- something is going to be doing better in Galicia when in Spain youth unemployment is 18% and in Galicia it's 12%, 6 points less. And I regret that you may be disturbed by these comparisons in the Socialist Party, but it is true that those who rule Spain at this time, together with Podemos, are you, and when you choose, it is also true that the Nationalist Block Galego decides to support socialists and therefore decides to support those policies that lead young and young people from all over Spain to lose employment opportunities. I recover the data: unemployment recorded in April in children under 30 years of age in Galicia, 12.26 %; in Spain, 18.61 %. The difference in those percentage figures is not negligible. We're talking about boys and girls from our country who have studied and who now want to work and can't. And of course there's always a problem to solve!: reduce timeliness and improve wages. But do you know what the difference is? The difference is that when the People's Party governs what is discussed is the quality of the job it creates, and when it governs the Socialist Party what is discussed is the amount of employment that is destroyed, that's the difference!, that's the difference!, and there's all that. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the same thing, and if they really socialists and nationalists want to do something so that young people can reduce youth unemployment, they start by breaking the agreement too, the agreement they have reached with Bildu, the friends of the Galician Nationalist Block in Galicia. You have agreed that you want to undermine the labour reform of the People's Party -- in fact, the honourable Member says --. And what they don't explain is that they seek to return to the framework of the labor relations designed by the Government of Zapatero, they seek to return, at the worst moment, to a work system that has caused a very high rate of temporality among the young. It has already exceeded 61% among children under 25 and has resulted in the destruction of more than 1 million jobs between children under 25 and more than 2 million jobs between children under 35. Madam, I can see that you already knew this fact, which said that indeed. [[Laughter]] And they point to this data, and they point to this data: 70% of the job that was destroyed between 2007 and 2012 was among the boys. Madam, point this out. And I know, Mr. Rios, that you don't like me talking to you about the Socialist Party, I know you don't like it, but they're your government partners, they're not the People's Party government partners, they're the government partners of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Laughter]] Because young employment is not solved by doing studies like the ones you propose, when the Nationalist Block in Wales is the first one that doesn't meet the official unemployment figures registered because it doesn't interest you. Because drawing up a job plan may turn out to be a very attractive propaganda phrase, but it doesn't explain in your motion what specific measures they want to put in place. And because today, with the People's Party, in Galicia, if there's a government that's putting all that effort into giving youth more opportunities. And here too, you talked about housing. In terms of housing, people under the age of 35 also have measures and lines of help to meet their needs. Specifically, there are programs targeted at children under 35 years of age in terms of rent, specific access to public housing, help in the acquisition of housing, help in rehabilitation. And today, Junta also has public promotion housing in rent, assisted by young people and girls. And last week President Feijóo introduced the social pact for housing, which includes measures for the next five years, with which he seeks to mobilize more than 1,080 million euros, and to reach more than 700 homes for young people and girls. And this plan includes rent with option of purchase for under 35 years of age, so the owners must include this option in the fifth year, keeping a fixed price, and in return they can access grants of up to 6,000 euros. And in the matter of retention of talent, which you also refer to in your motion, Galicia has increased by 24.5% investment in R+D+i, 7 points more than the average of the state, where it is 17.44%, and has recorded an increase of 18.34% of the staff working in this field, 6 points more than the average of Spain. And please don't lie about the data of youth emigration, don't lie. The latest immigration statistics show that Galicia recorded a positive emigration balance, the largest in the whole historical series, with 32%. Specifically, out of the 16,918 people who came from abroad, half, 8,420 are under 30 years of age, and this is to be added that around 73% of people who have arrived in Galicia since abroad are under 45 years of age. And, of course, the Board also acts in the field of employment. We talked about this last Friday in the Committee on Economic Affairs of this House, there are specific initiatives being launched by the Joint Committee and given specific content in each of the programmes. Since 2012, Junta has invested more than 315 million euros in active employment policies for under 30 years of age, which means an average of more than 39 million euros per year and more than 250,000 children and girls benefited. And you want to know which programs? We're talking about the Youth Employment Plan, with aid for hiring up to 6,000 euros for indefinite contracts and 3,000 euros for 1 year duration, with an budget of 2 million euros. We are talking about employment workshops for young people under 30 years of age, action given in each call with more than 7 million euros and of which 300 young people and girls benefit annually. And maybe you don't like it, because it's not called a young employment plan -- as you want -- but everything can be talked about, and the problem, if it's there, because everything can be talked about. Ladies and gentlemen, these policies work and the data so bear witness to. If we look at the number of unemployed under 30 in April 2021, compared to the previous month, it came down in a special way among the youth population, with a drop of 12.27. If we make this same comparison to data at an annual level, which is much more illustrative, because it offers the trend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u63	... finished, Mr. President -- with regard to April 2020 -- that is, at the peak of the pandemic -- we see that the number of unemployed under 30 years of age fell in a 22.67, that is, 6,139 boys and girls less unemployed. And I'm done now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u64	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u65	I'm done. I heard him here -- and I've seen him listening several times -- that you know how many people work 12, 15, 16 hours... and I don't know how many people are exploited. And I'm telling you one thing: I'd like you to illustrate it now how many times you've communicated it to the Labour Inspectorate, because it's your duty as a public official. If you know this problem, you have to report it automatically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u66	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u67	...to the Labour Inspectorate, because it's his duty. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u68	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group. Mr. Rivers Santome.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the support of the PSdeG Parliamentary Group for this initiative. And, Mr. Balsairo, believe me when I tell you that, if I ever get to where you are, I'd watch these videos to have master lessons on how to break up, how to talk about everything and not talk about anything for 10 minutes. I think it's impressive... about many things: Bildu, NorKorea, Cuba, Venezuela... there's been less talk about youth employment and alternatives. And from the start, Mr. Balsairo, the BNG does not intend to approve any model that exists in this world to this country. We are Germans and the Greeks need our own model, we are not as colonized as other forces that we need to systematically compare with one side or another. Galicia needs its own plan because our realities are specific and we need our own plans to develop to achieve the improvements at the social, work level and in all the issues we need. And then he fought talking about government partners, with PSOE and so on, and that others didn't win any elections, that we're always going together and so on... and, well, paraphrasing this great politician, telling him that "it's democracy, friend." I mean, we have to make a deal, we have to get to agreements and, well, eventually we get to agreements for a common good. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I'm already a little tired of always listening to the same mantras, the same headlines talking, for example, about this month of April and this recovery, and above all the inter-annual comparison with the month of April last year in full pandemic. If this has some kind of value, because perfect, I understand that EPA is not worth them, and this issue is the flag of economic recovery and jobs in this country, but there's not much more. Just like the subject of the migration balance, where you come in here every day you export a lot of young people who have work wherever you want and how you want with perfect guarantees and conditions. And forget that in this country hundreds of thousands of girls have emigrated and continue to emigrate. If you take the total amounts over the last few years, every 45 minutes a girl emigrates from this country for lack of opportunity. So what are we left with? Are we going to do things right, to say that everything is perfect and that there is no kind of problem? Or, well, that's what they'll tell you here. Then, in the questions... where is really what has been invested in employment in recent years, those 300 don't know how many million you just said? And, as I told you before, go down to the street; but it's not just for me to say, Survey just put a study on the table that says unemployment is the first concern among the population of the cities of Greece, the first and most of the second! So where is all that money invested? Won't it be a model failure? Won't money be squandered and not creating a continuum of stable jobs, of decent job conditions? Won't that be? Because youth -- as I said before in my first intervention -- rather, he doesn't know where he's going to be in a month, two, three, six... he doesn't know. And, above all, they don't try to do what they've been trying for a long time, which is to try... now I have the responsibility of not reporting to the Labour Inspectorate specific cases of individuals who work just hours, fair days. It's my responsibility, the Board isn't, to ensure that this doesn't happen and regulate a market as it is, for example, the hostess -- that I was very happy with the advisor saying that it was 75% of the total job in this country -- and that then there's no control, no kind of regulation, and they don't care, but, of course, I'm guilty of not reporting to the Labour Inspectorate. And when I worked 6 days a week, 11 or 12 hours a day, I didn't go to the Labour Inspectorate either, because if I didn't have to pay the rent, I didn't have to eat, I didn't have to move. I mean, I think it's very serious to talk about things so that you're falling and people who have to cling to any kind of work in any kind of condition in order to survive. But since I'm a senior in Social Security, more than it counts in its statistics, it's perfect; while they're high, no matter what conditions they're in, it's perfect. I caused 6 high times a week in a week, perfect, the statistics all come out perfectly. I hope -- as Mr. Balsairo said -- everything can be talked about, if you want to call it a youth employment plan, if you want to call it something else... we're always willing to talk about it, I understand that then -- because everything can be talked about -- we'll talk about supporting this initiative here today in order to be able to work on it. And, above all, they talk to young people, I say it's already out of this House political game and so on, they talk to young people, because they'll see certain issues, not to say they're thirsty to parliament about certain issues and in the press; and also to believe those issues is to live in a parallel world. And it's not living in the world where youth has to pay a rent on top of their possibilities, which has to cope with a lot of expenses and can't. And you're saying everything's okay and "come tomorrow" whatever it is. So let's put ourselves on the batteries, get to work, and talk about what we need to talk about. Let us support this initiative and give our country and our youth the future that it deserves without any type of approval. We are Greeks and therefore we need our own model of life and our own model of development in this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the use of the Greek language as a vehicle language in teaching
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u71	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Ms Sandra Vázquez Domínguez, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion:Example of replacementThe text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia reaffirms its commitment to the linguistic framework collected in the Constitution, the Autonomy Statute and the Law on Linguistic Standardization of Galicia. These rules ensure the balance between Spanish and German and contribute to ensuring the linguistic coexistence of citizens who value knowing both languages in order to be able to communicate with speakers from all over the state as well as with millions of them in Lusophone and Hispanic countries. We have demonstrated the House's rejection of any modification that the possibility that German or Spanish ceases to be motorists in teaching, thus endangering the balance between our two co-official languages."]] To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u72	Congratulations, President. Good afternoon, ladies. "The cornerstone of the Law of Linguistic Standardization, as far as teaching is concerned, is the article where it is collected that the Government guarantees the acquisition of double competence by the student, regardless of which language his family language is. Double competition is essential to ensure real linguistic freedom for all citizens. Well, all the measures taken over these years by the Government of Nuñez Feijóo are going in the opposite direction, in making the competition unattainable in Greek, though it is disguised with pompous words as plurilingualism. The reality, which is very stubborn, does nothing but deny them." These literary words of Agustín Fernández Paz, whose prestigious curriculum as a teacher, teacher and writer I am sure you will know well, but for whom all memory and homage for our part will be few, have been written and are published in 2012. An intellectual authority like yours had written what since pedagogy and sociolinguistics was already at that time and is still evident. As clearly scientifically ignored politically, for the People's Party -- as I have already reported and demonstrated in the past interpellation -- decided to break the limits of social consensus in linguistic policy, to ignore the pedagogical framework applied to language didactics in bilingual contexts and to disregard the main mandate of the Law of Linguistic Standardization, which in article 14.3 literally says: "The educational authorities of the autonomous community will ensure that at the end of the cycles in which teaching of the Greek is compulsory the student knows this in their oral and written levels in equality with the Spanish." The People's Party decided unilaterally in 2010 to impose an educational linguistic model that, in its most socially misleading conception -- that pompous word that Augustine said: multilingualism -- and linguistically injured -- as the reality now says -- was reintroduced into eight judgments by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, by denying, on the one hand, the speech of the People's Party supported by the existence of a supposed right of freedom of choice of language above the right to education. And, on the other hand, to verify the failure to promote the progressive use of Greek in the teaching contained in Article 13.2 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization. Obviously, it became clear that ignorance in our own language -- in the official -- is not a right to be covered by since the Government. We also referred to the systematic failure to comply with the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages in our last interpeleration of the plenary session. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to contrast Celmi, an enlightening database developed from the University of Vigo that incorporates all the results, reports, from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, a comparison that albiscates the high degree that we still have of non-compliance with the Charter for the Greek as a whole, in relation to the rest of the peninsula's languages, as well as the growth of this non-compliance in subsequent reports since 2012, under the responsibility of the Greek Government. But we also have to say that it seems with a certain convolence of the Spanish Government, as reflected in a written response to our Congress Member: "In May 2020 the Government addressed all autonomous communities with both co-official and minority languages which had something to claim on the recommendations made by this international organization. The report submitted by the Autonomous Community of Galicia was transcribed in full." A report that -- we insist again -- we have demanded on several occasions, taking into account Article 9, and that we continue without receiving. The question is, therefore, in the face of this situation: who is lying here?, the Government of the United States?, the Government of the State? Whether or not to be correctly transmitted? How can we support the language policy of the Union since the Spanish Government without a greater contrast? But, in any case, reality doesn't lie and the recent assessment of competition in English and Spanish achieved by the student at the end of ESO 4 is a good thermometer that we must meet for many reasons. The first, because it's a comparison that analyzes the results obtained in 2009. The second is because it's a quantitative analysis, but above all qualitative. And the third, by contemplating the study, the evaluation, of passive skills, as is usual, but also in this case of active ones, from conversations, of oral productions, therefore. What in the tail is determined globally as an acceptable competition in both languages is immediately mastered by indicating major imbalances in several dimensions. The dual competence, that is to say, that mandate to which the Government is obliged by the Law of Linguistic Standardization, is said to be guaranteed in the people of Galicia, in those who have Greek as their initial language, environmental, more closely related to rural habitat and always enrolled in public education centers. I mean, he who knows Greek knows more. Finally, this evaluation concludes that the current educational model, from the linguistic perspective, is not compensating for the progressive family and environmental disqualification of children and youth, and that it is necessary, in addition, to expand the basis of analysis and study of these results to really know what it gives of itself, which is giving itself the model called plurilingual. Let's imagine for a moment that the evaluation verified that 35% of the student in Galicia ends her compulsory education without achieving a complete, complete Spanish competition. Wouldn't the government be worried? We understand that yes, I would have reason to be, and we, of course, also and with reason. Why isn't there any kind of valuation still done today, several weeks after the knowledge of this study, when this data corresponds to Greek? 35 percent of the student is unable to express himself in oral productions in English with a domain without more than balanced to Spanish. That's the reality, even though we don't like anyone, neither you nor us. A conclusion which, by the way, is not surprising, because it comes to ratify the data of the Galego Institute of Statistics, which has already said that 1 in 4 children can't speak anything or very little Greek. By the way, an increase of more than 7 points in this direction in the last decade. Well, now this evaluation tells us that 1 out of 3 doesn't achieve that balanced competition with regard to the Spanish at the end of compulsory education. Returns the family as an initial field of learning and the school does not fulfill its function of clearing and transmitting knowledge and language acquisition. The conclusion is clear: the Spanish competition is safe and the Italian competition is compromised. The thawing function of the Greek school advances promoted by an impermeable decree that does not respect the different socio-linguistic contours of the country. A decree which, on the one hand, prohibits the giving of materials in English and, on the other hand, authorizes and promotes them in English. Curious inconsistency from the socio-linguistic perspective! By the time -- we were asked ourselves -- an assessment of foreign language competences -- we're going to simplify it -- actually, English -- that they introduced into teaching, at least a third, and much more of the curriculum? How much did our student compete on that foreign subject since 2010? It's a question we repeatedly ask ourselves for which we can't answer either. For when, besides, an assessment of the quality of learning of those subjects that were given in a foreign language, that is, English? Do you know more and better now the children, these promotions, for studying Science instead of Knowledge of the environment? That question, I assure you, is still unanswerable, pedagogic. It's surprising that in an experimental project of this height, these characteristics, at no time did any evaluation by the Council. And even more surprising is a decree that absolutely prevents, even penalizes, linguistic immersion in English, and itself sponsorship in English. There's nothing else to visit -- these days they can do just like me because it's public information -- websites from different concerted centers to verify ads like this: English teaching, which is done through linguistic immersion, takes up 50% of school hours. I wonder where teaching is left after and what percentage corresponds to the learning of the Greek and in Greek at this school in the Coruña. This same center but located in Catalonia -- because it also has representation there -- there, however, on the web it does bless trilingualism and therefore announces there that the immersion in English for other subjects reaches 33%, not 50% as here. What does the Government have to say about this, then, failure to comply with the rules? Well, what we're interested in, in view of the facts, is to talk about the present and the future, and that's why we expect the BNG not to come back here today with those confusing arguments that the advisor has already used in the interrelationship between competition and use, because that we must already be quite clear; and don't use that and that policy of scrutinizing to justify that they are still being true of a past that all and all must have passed. It's a long time to face a project that represents, in fact, an inclusive and restorative plurilingualism that guarantees the learning of our language from balance in access to its knowledge, that fundamental pillar of the Law of Linguistic Standardization. In the past interpellation, the Counsellor said textually: "Our linguistic policy is based on three fundamental issues. First of all, with regard to the regulatory framework. The second, the attention to the feeling of most of the Greeks and the Greeks. And the third, the bet to guarantee the future of Greek in all fields." The evidence of the data shows that this has neither been nor is it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u74	The three premises have been breached and history needs to be rectified for political responsibility and social commitment. That's why we made this motion today, in a positive way, as did the counselor in his speech at the plenary. With a resolution that simply invites to convene a work table with social and educational agents to consensualize a new path, a new educational linguistic model that respects, which takes into account the Law of linguistic normalization, the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language and which, of course, gives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u76	...response to non-compliance reports of the Council of Europe. Indeed -- finished, Mr. President -- I started with a quote by Augustine Fernández Paz and wanted to end with it: "We, like so many, are many and many to work in a positive way, to dismantle prejudices with our practice, to make proposals and activities that make reality live in Greek, to prove that we love and defend linguistic plurality, but never at the cost of letting our language break down on the roof." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Our language policy stance is clear, it's repeated, it's maintained over time -- not all opposition groups can say the same -- and it counts on the support of most Galician society, democracy. A position known to all the Greeks that rests on two fundamental pillars. The first of them is respect for the prevailing legality and the second, acceptance of Galician bilingual reality. As far as the first pier is concerned, the lawfulness, obviously, moves on three issues. The first, the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government, which establishes the co-feficiality of Welsh and Spanish, and, third, the spirit of consensus gathered in the Law of Linguistic Standardization. As for the second pillar, the roots in Galicia of two languages, the Greek and Spanish, are the consequence of known historical events, but, in any case, they like or not the lordships of the opposition, the Greeks live in the bilingual reality of Galicia. As a majority group in this House, we understand that making strategic approaches based on monolingualism, as the group intends to make proponent through this motion, the only thing they can do is give the coast to society and it doesn't contain with us, gentlemen. Where you will find us, where you will find us, is on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks and continue to move forward towards the future from the recognition of Greek as your own language, with the officiality of Greek and Spanish, with positive measures and, of course, lordships, with freedom of use. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate of this inquiry, which I have listened very carefully, just like today, I gave some that other data, but I suppose you've also forgotten many others, I suppose you might not be interested in many. But I'm going to comment. The evaluation of bilingual competition to which you have referred also, in your use of the word in this motion, and precisely, which you know quite deeply, raises a number of questions to which you have not made particular reference and which I believe it is necessary to put upon the table. The report points out that, in general terms, competition in German is acceptable, and that the situation has not finally worsened since 2009, according to this report. We can then conclude that Decree 79/2010, which so much mentions negatively by its group, did not reverse the domination of competences over it. Don't I know if you want to talk to Mrs. Rodil? If I don't, I'm talking, huh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u79	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u80	Yeah? Perfect. They grow the uses and self-perception of bilingual speakers: 83.1% are considered fully bilingual, and 16.9% preferring Spanish. From this assessment, to which the Galego Nationalist Bloc lady referred, we must point out that 44% of the 600 respondents -- students -- both the Spanish and the Spanish and the original language, compared to 36.1%, who indicated only the Spanish, and 18.1%, who only mentioned the Greek. As for that alleged lack of competence, it would affect 35 over 36, not 100 percent, something that Mrs Complaines has forgotten. So, Mrs. Complaints, you talk about the fair as it goes to you, because you told a part but you didn't talk about the whole part. Totally lawful, of course, here everyone talks about what he's interested in telling and you're interested in talking about yours. Still, as a demanding party we are, we do not comply with that data and we must continue to work, of course. That's why he didn't have the slightest doubt. From the administrations, but as a society as a whole. And that work must be both within the educational system, as it is already being done, but also with different programs that are being carried out, as from the social environments: the family environment, leisure, activities outside the classroom, ultimately, in the day-to-day, ladies and gentlemen. We have to involve society in all its fields and, within this implication, the Government of Greece has just presented an ambitious project, the Project We, to work precisely in that field. And I invite the rest of the administrations, if they really care, to do the same. This is a project that aims to enhance the use between youth, as a living language digitally will have more guarantees for the future. The goal is to incorporate and participate in new technological developments so that the language can interact with the digital world while English and Spanish do so. Ladies and gentlemen, this is progressing, this is progressing, it's walking with youth, and not what you want with this motion, which is going back to the past and still stagnant in the past. We'll work really important, work for the Greeks and also for our youth. Let's work to make it better for the Greeks who know and promote Greek, Spanish and foreign languages. And the result of this work, of that commitment, from the People's Parliamentary Group, was a replacement amendment for the Galician Parliament to reaffirm its commitment to the linguistic framework set out in the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and the Law on Linguistic Standardization of Galicia. This rule ensures the balance between Spanish and German and contributes to ensuring the linguistic coexistence of citizens, who value knowing both languages in order to be able to communicate with speakers from all over the state, as well as with millions of them in luxophone and Hispanic countries. We have demonstrated the House's rejection of any modification that the possibility that the English or Spanish may cease to be motorists in teaching, thus endangering the balance between our two co-official languages. At the beginning of my speech he said that not all groups represented in this parliamentary chamber had the same continuing position over time. Just now, the current minister of education, Mrs Celá, defended in 2010, being autonomous representative of the Basque Country: "Although the Basque is the specific language of the Basque Country, the Spanish language itself is also the Spanish language, why not consider the mother tongue of 80% of the Basques?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And I ask myself, what would change this shift in the Socialist Party from the year 2010 to this year? Should I see the approval of the central government's budgets? Probably. We will see, after the debate on this motion, whether the Socialist Party is in favour of or against the freedom of the use of the language of the Greeks and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, when we would have to be proud of keeping two languages, the English and Spanish, some people want to ignore one, while the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on linguistic policy is clear and consensual, and it has a recent social majority support, a model of their own, the Greek model, totally normalized and evaluated by the results in the educational field. Look, the PISA report, which you always forget to mention, found that we are the community where the student speaks two co-official languages more easily. 96% of the student says he speaks well or well enough to talk to other people, before other autonomous communities with their own language. And the same report places us in the forefront of tolerance by other cultures; on the other hand, other communities with their own language are in the last positions. The truth is, it's curious that opposition groups, in this case, the Nationalist Galego Block, whenever they have the opportunity, are the first to compare with other autonomous communities, but on this occasion, when Galicia stands to have a greater and better knowledge of its linguistic wealth, it seems to be inappropriate to compare itself. Look, the wealth and humanity that provides languages can only be guaranteed by ensuring their continuity and family transmission. We must involve ourselves in the objective of preserving the transmission of language from families, governments and society in general. Our language has its place in its education system in Galicia, where it is on equal terms as the Spanish, without this supposed to give up the learning of other foreign languages. Languages don't compete with each other but the acquisition of a language favors and feeds the learning of the following, and opens opportunities for personal, social and labour growth. It is a work of all the promotion of our language, of our identity, ultimately, of our culture. We have the best-formed generation in English of history, with solid foundations on which we must continue to work to keep moving forward and looking towards the future. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u81	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u82	Graza, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all of us again. Again, the subject of language in this House, in this Parliament, again to explain that languages form an impeccable wealth for any people and that are, in addition, elements of cohesion, Mr. Voice of the People's Party, not of confrontation. It's a shame to hear speeches like yours, that they still don't accept and still deny that our language, in view of the data, is in danger, is in serious danger. And it's a shame, the truth is it's a pity they still don't understand this situation. We insist, so our language doesn't die, what we have to do is preserve it, preserve the language, preserve our culture. You have to protect her, you have to take care of her, you have to promote her, you have to normalize her. And since we don't start by normalizing it in the educational field, which is the first place we can normalize it, we'll be condemning its death. [[Applause]] I was asking a question, I was asking a question, spokeswoman of the People's Party, which is if we're in favour of that... because we're in favour of our language not dying, that's what we're in favour, there's no more, there's that, that's the idea, the concept, for you to understand it. Self-government leaders constantly repeat that we are the autonomic community with the best data, but as always, that shock, comparing us with other autonomics, I don't care about it; it's so, lady of the People's Party. But we want to remember objective data, and it's data from the IGE, the Galego Institute of Statistics, we understand that we're not talking about an organism too subversive, or about progression or anything like that either. And there it shows a very worrying reality about the use of Greek among the newest population, with ever-increasing figures of knowledge and use of our language in boys and girls between the ages of 5 and 14. One in four can't speak Greek. And the percentage of 15-year-olds who never speak German shot, shot. It's not our data, it's IGE data that you can consult without any problem, it's public, from 29.59% in 2008 to 44.13% in 2018. Repeat, IGE data, not us. [[Applause]] This initiative, the initiative presented by the Galego Nationalist Block, supports the latest scientific data that are known and those that have been mentioned here. And I'm sorry if I repeat myself, but I think it's important to reinforce some idea, to insist on them. And not so much in data as in trends, that's what worries, not as much data as trend. Indeed, as has already been said, the Sociolinguistic Seminary of the Royal Galaga Academy has recently made public the result of a project of evaluation of bilingual competition in the English and Spanish languages and, without entering the ESO room student, without going into detail, I will not dare to do it either in front of the BNG Voice, but I do want to expose some of the ideas. That report, by the way, is already beginning to see that there is an accused imbalance in the two languages to the detriment of Greek, as the Royal Galaga Academy itself says. According to this report, we can no longer say that Greek is the most spoken language among youth. The Royal Galega Academy itself points out that when we compare that data to 1995 -- from there it speaks of trends -- the number of people who learned to speak initially in Greek has fallen down nearly 20 percentage points against the percentage of initial bilinguals. The same Academy also appeals to the Law of Linguistic Standardization, which favored formal uses and stabilized the informals, that law of linguistic normalization. But it says the Academy itself too -- we always put them down so that you don't say they're ideas of this parliamentary group -- the Academy itself also says that this decree of what you were talking about, that decree of the year 2010, believed this tendency to be based on a formulation of multilingualism and I quote textually: "It doesn't take into account the situation of a minority of the Greek language, which results in a decrease in their school visibility and, hypothetically, in the reinforcement of their social marginality by considering school -- and this is important -- a element of social reproduction instead of a change agent, which is what it should be." There is another relevant fact, which we are very concerned about, in that report, that points out that the ownership of the centre is another important factor, and this is very important. What is revealed in this scientific study is that the student of public schools ends ESO with similar competence in both languages. But it turns out that the private and concerted are graduating with a much more deficient domain in Greek than in Spanish. Where are the mechanisms for controlling this dysfunction? Where are they? He is also pleased -- and I have to say here that the presence of the Secretary General of Linguistic Policy very well a week ago, or just a few weeks ago, in Commission 4th -- the alert report of the weakness in the ability to communicate orally and in the understanding of the law and says that it affects particularly young people and girls mainly chattelanfalants who reside in the urban or periurban Greek. In that committee, this Parliamentary woman herself asked about this data, and the Secretary-General for Linguistic Policy pointed out with resignation that the cause of this was the dismantling of rural areas. And it was like that, and it was only that cause you gave to explain this that I was asking you. As if, on the one hand, the depopulation of our rural population was an evil endemic which we have to show and understand rather than fight, and on the other hand, as if it were because of the fact that Greek is the language of rural people and, as this one is dying, because our language will also do it. And there's the thing left. Unheard of, that's how it was, that's how it was. The videos are there, you can check them out. Returning to the report of the RAG, the president himself warned in the presentation of this research as the language model prevailing in the educational system is consolidating the existing imbalances instead of compensating them, and demanded measures, the Royal Galaga Academy itself called for measures of different nature to reverse the backwardness of the use and knowledge of Welsh in youth. Because we want to clarify that, too. From the PSdEG we don't just want young people to have skills in English, we also want them to be used, because the languages they don't use know what's going on with them. You could also think, and come to this point, because you refer to that PISA report, already to compensate for a little bit of what you say, that we are always the opposition groups that we are with the same tenor of the language, the Greek dies etc. However, the question is that the Committee of Experts for the European Charter of Regional and Diminished Languages of the Council of Europe has been censored for years, censoring the loss of the presence of Greek in teaching caused by the erratic language policy of the Council of Galicia. He knows it is. And he also says he doesn't respect people's rights with regard to their own language. It assures the Council of Europe, I repeat, not us, that the limits establishing the so-called multilingualism decree of the year 2010, which you like so much, are clearly in contradiction with the commitments made to make the predominant language of Greek in teaching. By insisting, moreover, that this is not met at any of the educational levels, at any of them. It's the Council of Europe -- I repeat -- who suggests eliminating limitations to teaching in English -- it's said here too -- and in all educational media and also by subjects, warning that those subjects that are shared in our language, in English, in the educational centers where English was introduced are as low as 33%. That the Greek -- says the Council of Europe -- has very little presence in child education -- in some centres I can almost believe there is no -- and that teaching material in Greek is also insufficient. It's the Council of Europe you're saying. So the Council of Europe once again gives us reason for the serious consequences of the People's Party's policy on our language in all areas and, very significantly, on the educational field. By the way, the last shot of the Council of Europe's ears is about a month ago, just a month ago. And we're not going to sink any more because the data is what they are and are unquestionable and the data is unquestionable and irrefutable. They stop praising the Welsh model, which, according to the counsellor a short time ago, generates both stability and skill, because, in view of the data, it's not so and it's lying. His model, the educational model of the current Galician Union, does not work, is put to work in a new educational model that protects our language. We don't have any problems with Spanish or English, even with Chinese, but they protect our language. Sit down and listen to the expert people, who will have something to tell them or tell them or express themselves about it. Of course, the future of our language depends on its use, and the future of our country depends on our youth, that is, if our youth does not use our language it will eventually die. That's why we say it's important not only to study but also to use it. Go ahead, logically, we support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u84	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I mean, Mrs Vázquez, that I'm quite surprised by this tense attitude that she assumes when she has interventions related to our language. I'm quite surprised, and I'm quite surprised, and I'm a bit of light, a certain prepotence, a certain pride, because, besides, you, the difference from me, by age, had the opportunity to belong to an educational system... can I follow? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u86	We'll do as we always do if I'm interrupted, time then... He said you had, by age, an opportunity to belong to an education system that is fully educated, in principle, in Greek, something that I don't. So, you've received sociolinguistic classes, and the truth is, you've got enough evidence here that either you've been late or you're leaving your teacher very badly. I'm going to recommend, to you and to anyone, really, that anyone, who reads his neighbor Agustín Fernández Paz, who will certainly help to see the optics with perspective, linguistic reality with much more perspective, with much more respect than they are manifesting, of course, at this moment. [[Applause]] Of course in ten minutes it's impossible to break down a job like this evaluation, but I don't have any drawback in doing it when you consider it, do you? [[Murmurs.]] Look, just say, say, as you can deduce here, that the data is similar to that of 2009. It's already a failure of this model, because if you haven't moved forward from 2009 until now, then it means that the model has already failed by itself. [[Applause]] He didn't come up with any argument that goes through the data that I presented, which I argued, therefore, also something that means, we use escapism to go to other places, because we really don't have a place to hold us. Look, I was just bringing a very present quote from the counselor, which is a pity that today does not accompany us here too, and he said he was advocating for walking from the hand of society in promoting the use of the language of Greek among younger generations. That is our proposal, and that is the proposal that is making a quite important group and that is, of course, growing and growing more, and that already has a proposal of bases which we want you to come to explain here but which we are not allowed to do in the Committee on Education and Culture. And besides, I was very present, precisely, also that-- man! I just said I felt I wasn't, Counselor, welcome! -- he was very present too literally, his words of interpellation, and he said he liked to hold his hand, he repeated it several times, he thought it should be so, that we should work in dialogue, in consensus, and that he had his hand to work positively for the Greek. And the decisive part of this motion is nothing more than that, even though you're in charge of distorting it: working in a positive way and not making any kind of exclusions. And look, to finish with, if you're with you, your refusal to accept this proposal, or at least if you're trading something that's logical and accurate, what it means is that you want to continue to violate the Law of Linguistic Standardization, the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language and the reports of the Council of Europe. That they want to disregard, that they ignore, the data of regression in linguistic competition, that they're just going to progressively invalidate youth for use, that they want to close the opportunity at a new time, dialogue and consensus with social demand, I insist, that they already have proposals that they want to present here. It involves accepting imbalance in access to unfavorable linguistic competition to the Greek, reaffirming this catalogue of defeats with which, of course, we do not agree, sponsored by the People's Party, normalizing ignorance about the knowledge of our language, and signing the current chapter of the historical advance of the language substitution process. That's what you sign by refusing to accept or, at least, by valuing our proposal. So, what they're showing is that they don't want to learn anything, that they prefer to keep ignoring evidence and reality. Because it seems like a lie that they just celebrated the centenary of the Brotherhood of Speech and that they didn't learn anything from their idea. It seems a lie that they just celebrated the centenary of the group We and that they didn't learn anything from the idea of the group We. [[Applause]] Or they just celebrated Isaac Díaz Pardo's centenary and learned absolutely nothing from Isaac Díaz Pardo's idea. Or that they have just celebrated Galagas Letter Day, which, for you, indeed, in practice, is a day, and that they have not learned anything, that they simply leave that slogan, "Thank you, Master," but that they are the worst pupils and pupils in this world. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The real question is whether the People's Party understands that everyone and all the Greeks have the right to learn our language, that's the first thing to clarify the People's Party, and the answer is clearly not. Only you in this country are conforming, satisfied, happy and celebrating the outcome of this language policy against the whole society. You're satisfied. The results assess the linguistic policy of the Union, indeed, said in its appearance the Secretary-General for Language Policy. And, look, they're happy because they're getting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u88	...the objective they pursued: to promote the progressive ignorance of the new generations and to advance in the process of language substitution. Target accomplished.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u89	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u90	I cannot accept the amendment, because it is an insult to the intelligence of this Member and the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u91	Thank you. Yeah, got it, got it. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let us now proceed with the vote on the motions, once the debate is over. Motions vote We started voting the motion... what happened? [[Murmurs.]] I don't know what happened. I don't know. I was saying that we voted for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, on the policy of the German Government in relation to employment and the improvement of employability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u92	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Paulo Rios Santôme. There are no amendments. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Paulo Rios Santôme, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to youth employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u93	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mercedes Queixa Zas. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the use of the Greek language as a vehicle language in teaching. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u94	The votes were finished and we continue with agenda item 4, of non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the impetus by the Galician Council for the development and adoption of a new sectoral wind plan for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u95	No amendments were tabled, and for the defence of this non-law proposal Mrs. Presas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u96	Thank you, President. If you allow me a reminder that there is a coffee shop in this Parliament, just as the people you want to talk can go there. [[Applause]] Well, as far as legislation is concerned, we've been dedicated to a lot of interventions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u97	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u98	...from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to the question of the wind model, asking for a model change, a model that is planned, fair, German and sustainable. Arguments and proposals, while the People's Party continues to close its roadmap to the service of large companies and an uncontrolled and savage model, as it has demonstrated in the processing of the Administrative Simplification Act -- a shame that the Counsellor would leave now, since he was staying here -- more known as the "second part of the Predation Law." Today we'll put more arguments on the table, insisting on the need for that model change, but the truth is there's a proverb, which we signed, which is that an image is worth more than a thousand words, and so today I want to show you to your lordships several images. This is April, Courel... [[Mrs. Presas shows a sheet with a picture.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u99	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u100	Thank you, President. As I said, this is April, in the Courel area, two weeks ago. We've seen images like this, on May 16th: more than a thousand people walking through the Groba saw, defending it from that wind invasion. [[Mrs. Presas shows a sheet with a picture.]] We have another image of this same weekend, from last Saturday, a march from The Covelo, throughout Suido, where also hundreds of people claimed the brake from up to 24 wind farms that threaten this space that should already be protected. [[Mrs. Presas shows a sheet with a picture.]] I could finally exhaust the minutes of my intervention by showing more images of this popular rebellion that is going through the country, in front of a wind model that is out of control and which is incompatible with the socio-economic uses of the areas, with the protection of the environment, and also incompatible with any return to the socio-economic development of the right populations, starting with their own participation. Today you could show here images of the Road, of Lalin, of other places in Ourense, of Lugo, because there's a cry that goes through the country, there's a real expansive revolution that demands of the Galician Union, now that the health circumstances allow these meetings of so many people, a correction of their economic policy. But I wanted to synthesize it in two images, which they can allow their lordships, if they strive to meet a minimum, and do what is sometimes called to look for differences, or make that comparison between two models. One is an image of last Sunday on the Death Coast, also a claiming act in the Penedos de Traba e Pasarella, threatened by which, in fact, it is a macroproject divided into three by the company EDP: Monte Chan, Pena dos Mouros e Soesto, on the Coast of Death. [[Mrs. Presas shows a sheet with a picture.]] But we could also see a very different picture of yesterday: here was Mr. President of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, meeting with a manager of this same company. [[Mrs. Presas shows a sheet with a picture.]] I don't know if it was Sunday by the Penedos -- I understand that there are some Members here who were -- that the president didn't bother to listen to the neighborhood. In short, these two images, that of the Penedos contrasted with that of the president of the Galician Union sitting on the side of the electric lobby, because it summarizes quite well what we are living. On the one hand, the neighborhood in defense of its interests, and on the other hand, the Government of the People's Party aside from the electric oligopolie, is that of telling me who you are, and I tell you who you are. [[Applause]] A government that prefers to defend the interests of these big companies instead of betting on a fair wind model, that it is German and that it is sustainable. I really know that the People's Party doesn't care that we're dealing with this whole thing, but they could have some education too, and let the debates develop, right? [[Murmurs.]] I don't have the tone of a teacher who has my partner in the previous debate, but the truth is they're a bit lacking in some kind of education, like at school. [[Applause]] Finally, returning to the question, the images I showed at the beginning of my intervention, basically, come to reflect because that law of the jungle in which we want to install the Government of the People's Party, in a sort of saving who can, where ultimately the people who save the people. We've seen one of the recent victories also this May, when it seems that finally the neighborhood and the collectives that defended that Galineiro saw can breathe in peace, and who we want to bless again from this rostrum on behalf of the BNG. But, of course, this is not the model, the fate of a country and its economic and energy development cannot depend that in a place there can be an answer that will reorder and reconsider projects that are harmful. It is, of course, a law of the jungle, and we understand that we need to enact a change so that this doesn't have to be so, and that, of course, this social cry, a social cry that is seen in these mobilizations, but that we also see the thread of multiple agreements of multiple institutions, municipalities of all colors and of all sizes. We've talked about some of them since this rostrum, and I want to remember one of the most recent examples, the Lalín Town Hall, which I don't know if on this side they know who rules in the Lalín Town Hall, if alone. For if only they should hear what this corporation has to say unanimously, also the Government of the People's Party, against a wind model which, of course, does not agree with the public principles of defending environmental, social and economic interests. A social cry that we also see in recurring pronouncements of multiple collectives and organizations of all kinds, from mountain communities, ecological organizations, scientific organizations of all kinds. No more, this very Monday we also saw how the manifesto in defense of the Central Macizo that developed us Save the Thamega-ADEGA Monterrey in collaboration with Rubén Bermejo, a guide of nature, and with Joseph Romero, a technical-agricultural engineer, and who also puts on the table arguments from the point of view of different areas in front of these macroprojects. And so they're increasingly evidence -- the time would not come for this intervention to put them on the table -- that it can't be that everyone is wrong and that the Council of Galicia is what the omnipresence of truth and certainty has. And so it's increasingly inevitable that they have to take their mistake, their failure, and that they have to sit down and agree on a new development model. And that's what we want to talk about in this plenary session. The next day Mr. Bará Torres will be questioning the Greek Government's environmental demolition advisor on the need to increase protection. [[Applause]] And I want to focus today on a model change that we have developed in the initiative through several points but which, synthesically, has two large lots or two large areas. One is the need -- we've already insisted on at other times -- of a new sectoral wind plan and, another, measures that make energy development an economic development gap for our country, which we need a lot. So, first of all, the question is why a new sectoral wind plan? And to sum up, I was also listening to an interview yesterday to the new president of Adega, who was talking about the wind macroproject model being a deplanation. And the truth is, I don't have a better definition than that deplanation, because right now, actually, we're in that jungle law. There was a model that was obsolete in 1997, and the later remedy did not adapt to new technologies, to the development that had this wind implantation. But, of course, if that was bad enough now we're in a worse situation, because after that law of depredation bis already literally the whole territory of our country is susceptible to wind deployment. And in addition, the Board of Trustees has some powers that do not correspond to the appropriate democratic quality; they have used their absolute majority to make changes in 2017 and 2020 geared to this and therefore does not meet the need for planning that they should. So -- we insist -- it's necessary for you to feel in dialogue with all the sectors affected and a new wind management, which enables more exclusion zones to also address the evolution that has occurred in these years of biodiversity awareness, which has to be our role in the fight against climate emergency. And also, on the other hand, it is decided in which area it can be implemented, because throughout the territory we see multiple examples of the collision even with the socio-economic uses of the areas. By setting an example, a few weeks ago we were on a visit to the Galician Nationalist Block in Mazaricos Town Hall, which is leader in agricultural development, and one of the wind farms, in which in addition the mayor's office is working hand in hand with the neighbouring to reorient the project, wants to be implanted in an area that until recently lived a process of partial concentration. You're aware of this nonsense. I don't know if they're aware of how long it takes in this country a partial concentration, which is an average of 18 years, and an investment of quite a thousand euros. So it's the world on the contrary: instead of taking advantage of this public investment, in addition to a place that has unaffordable power in the sector, because, of course, the idea of the Galician Union is that this is also a green carpet for wind invasion. That's an absolute nonsense. There are more and more voices in the socio-economic field as well. One of the last to go out publicly was precisely the Big House of Xanceda, also from the whole area of Orders, which is very affected by this situation. So it's obvious that you're causing something very serious, which is that rejection also to renewable energies and that therefore a new sort of order is needed. But since the Galego Nationalist Bloc, we also insist that this new ordination has to be done on the basis of a new economic model, which we cannot continue to set up in this nonsense where we also saw yesterday these headlines from "foreign groups control Spanish energy with 100 billion." This is what happens today in the state electricity market and what we suffer also in our country, which is that, mostly, the energy generation, that power generation of economic wealth is in the hands of Voitre funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u102	...and foreign funds. So the question is, who cleans up and who picks up the outcome of that party? Which is the title of this news that I read to his lords and said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u104	..."funds and oil mills for the Spanish holiday of renewables".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u106	We understand that, of course, it cannot be our country, we are at a decisive moment, we have to go back to a new model of that energy development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u108	...that don't repeat mistakes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u109	You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u110	I'd ask you, Mr. President, for some flexibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u111	It's been a minute! [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos, words not perceived.]] Madam Presas, take a minute. Stop for a moment in your intervention before 10 seconds, it's already 1 minute and you've got another intervention. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos, words not perceived.]] Yeah, well, yourself, hey!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u112	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u114	We are at the crucial moment and since the Galego Nationalist Block we call for these measures to be taken into consideration for an energy model that is at the service of the people rather than to the service of the electric lobby.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u115	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Seco García has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u116	Thank you, President. There are people who let it hit when it comes to one's life, and listening here, at parliamentary headquarters, to talk about Augustine Fernández Paz and all his literary, personal and ideological quality is a taste. And yes, I wanted to point out and thank Mercedes for making that warm memory of a person who both she and I know, we want and that it's a disgrace that others don't value all that knowledge that has left us, that influence. Too bad there are parties that don't understand the importance of the English language! Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, despite our debate -- as the spokesperson of the BNG said -- full and full on this issue, despite the fact that the mobilizations are growing every day throughout the territory of Greece, from north to south, from Ourense to the Crown; although every day they are the mayors of the People's Party, and also the spokespersons of their party in the opposition, who ask for changes, ladies of the People's Party, we continue without making them see the need to open up a deep debate and to consent to regulatory changes to try to correct the evases that exist in the process of implementing wind energy in Galicia. From our group we ask you again to open that melon, not to be left with cross arms, to do something to counteract the discomfort of a citizen who feels that decisions are being made in the back of his interests, when the logic would be that, with good planning and working from the Autonomic Administration with participation and transparency, this process of implantation of renewable energies would be very well received by the citizen. In his hand is changing that perception that they have more Greek and Greek every day than the Government of Galician Union and the People's Party work to benefit the interests of the great energy companies of this country and abroad. Look, from the Socialist Party, we are strong advocates of the deployment of renewable energies and the fight against climate change. Believe me, we are not those who stand against any initiative to implement the wind energy that is generating in our country. We're not the ones who form a platform to stand against without first analyzing what the deployment of each wind farm is all over our territory. From the Socialist Party we have analysed case by case and taking into account the need for renewable energies, but this must be done by respecting the territory, the quality of life of the citizens of our field, the viability of agricultural holdings, which are so important for the development of the rural environment, the respect of our cultural heritage, our environment and our landscape. The wind sector is important for Galicia, since in 2012 it represented a total contribution to the Greek GDP of 581 million euros, which amounts to almost 1% of the German GDP of that year. And a number of associated jobs, directly and indirectly, close to 7,000 workers in that 2019. Even so, through autonomous and local taxation -- such as wind canon, ICI, IBI, IAE and so on -- the wind sector reached the Greek economy in 2019 about 60 million euros. On the other hand, the recordings to which this sector is being subjected have an impact at the state level of near also of EUR 58 million per year, in the same year 2019. This data also gives information on the importance of the sector for Galicia and its citizenship. On the other hand, wind energy generated in Galicia to replace conventional energies has a global impact on the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere and contributing to achieving the sustainability commitments set by the European Union and reflected at the state level in the integrated national energy and climate plan. The wind energy generated in Galicia has prevented the emission of 33 million tons of CO2 between 2015 and 2019, reaching 54 million in 2019. In economic terms, emissions avoided in 2019 translate into savings of EUR 153.7 million into CO2 emission rights. Having said this, we understand that Galicia already has a strong deployment of wind energy, much more than most of our country's autonomy, and that therefore any wind energy project that arrives in Galicia should be analysed with great care. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's in your hand to do it in a planned way in conjunction with our rural community, with the municipalities and rural communities; or to continue to see how new collectives and mayors appear that they don't know what's going on in their territory. They open a negotiation process to arrive at a new wind sector plan, which the old one dates back to 1997 and which has not even been subjected to a strategic environmental assessment study. We must study together the situation in Galicia, where the expansion of the wind sector is to be located; which are the areas that we must preserve from the impact of these parks; until we have limits on that deployment; and of course, what regulation we must put on the table before infrastructures that have changed a lot since the start of the installation of wind parks in the 1990s. Nothing has to do with the mills at that time, 50 meters, which were located in Galicia in the 1990s with the current ones, which can reach up to 200 meters in height. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we can and must make changes. It's good that you did it to facilitate the deployment of wind energy, but you could also open up the changes to protect citizenship. So look, you've been modifying legislation just recently, and they've made it possible for wind energy to be implanted out of the wind development areas. Curiously, they said this wouldn't be possible for projects that authorize the state and for those that evaluate you. Very strange things, gentlemen of the People's Party. They also allowed the environmental inspection service to develop private companies, but they are unable to modify that planning to increase the minimum distance to which housing mills have to be located. They should study what is being done with the implantation of large polygonal surfaces of affect by wind farms, which is generating loads on many properties of citizenship, which does not receive anything because of this affect; but, yes, it has limited its possibilities and reduced the value of its properties. They should protect the areas of enlargement of the Natura Network -- which, of course, I want to thank them from here that they admitted the other day in commission that this enlargement should be completed, as our group called for; it was not timeless and we'll see what they do -- projected by the Government of Turin and blocked in the last 10 years, a decade ago, and through an announcement by the General Directorate for Conservation of Nature, published in the CEO of December 2011. The board announced its immediate enlargement and spent 10 years in the bar, which was urgent in 2011 and essential in 2021. At present, Galicia is on Spain's tail on the surface of this network, which does not reach 12 %, which means less than half the state average, which is around 27 %. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the valuable wetlands of Galicia, including the turbulence present in many places where wind farms are planned, are only being considered in environmental impact studies, since, with the exception of the five wetlands protected from Galicia, they are not even included in the inventory of wetlands provided for by the autonomic legislation itself for more than a decade and which has never been carried out. The curious thing is to see the reply that they give to those, like the Quixote de Otes members, who want to defend our wetlands. According to the U.S. decree, the creation of the inventory of wetlands in Galicia requires our autonomous community to provide an important tool to know and provide information on the number, extent and state of conservation of wetlands in Galicia. And that, in accordance with the June 2008 Decree, the legal regime of protected wetlands is developed and the Galician Wetlands Inventory is created, wetlands of the autonomous community will be systematically included, setting up as an administrative register of a public nature in which Galician wetlands will be registered, an inscription that will be considered as a prior and necessary requirement for wetlands declaration under the protected wetlands category. And interested people may urge the competent environmental counsellor to declare a certain natural space as a protected wetland. The explanatory statement of this decree also states that they will provide regulatory coverage to the classification inventory of Welsh wetlands as an indispensable instrument for the service and conservation of these ecosystems, with regard to providing information on the number, extent and state of conservation of Galician wetlands. In addition, it will be used to provide the Ministry of the Environment with information on Galician wetlands in order to develop the Spanish inventory of wetlands and keep the state catalogue up to date. It turns out that the response of the Galician Union to this collective of what I was talking about earlier, when I wanted to introduce new wetlands, is that this register is considered at statistical level, and does not involve its protection, when the collective wants only to protect the bazaars and turbides, a type of wetlands that has already received an important degree of protection according to the European Economic Commission directive and the framework water directive. These wetlands are also very important to combat climate change because they are natural CO2 accumulators. Another of the issues that should open up to make changes is the issues that have to do with the participation and counselling that the landowners receive from the land affected by wind deployment. The search for greater balance in negotiations and the deployment of wind energy leaves a greater burden on rural communities and municipalities, and there is also greater transparency in the management of these projects. Today the BNG presents this proposal and we ask them again to take advantage of it to make changes that support our rural, that democratize the wind system, that establishes balances between owners and wind promoters and, of course, to put our natural wealth and our primary activities in our territory at risk. I don't think it's much to ask and the People's Party could be willing to open that melon. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose in your photo album you showed here, you wouldn't keep this picture, would you? Quintana justifies her photo in a yacht because she talks to anyone who asks for it. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a picture.]] Do you know who the yacht was? The yacht was a builder of the wind sector who was helped with a project after this meeting, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the reality. That picture turns out you forgot it for your album. [[Applause]] Look, they're out of falsehoods, ladies. Once again, after a debate on the wind sector, with absolute demagogy, they are based on three false premises: a disordered wind development, a modification of an wind sector plan and, secondly, a lack of environmental guarantees and social participation, and a lack of profitability of the sector for owners or municipalities, or criticism of the wind cannon at the environmental compensation fund. Then I'm going to whistle for the kid each of these three big blocks. Your Honor, you keep saying that we don't have an orderly sectoral plan, or that it's not up to date, and that's not the case. Precisely, the sectoral plan of what Galicia has to offer allows you to know earlier where you can or can not put an aerogeor. And it includes, of course, all the protected territory of the Natura Network. It's amazing that... I'd like you to tell me how much the range of expiry is, that for you, the sectoral wind plan that has expired. Because in 2008, when your contest, you had this same sectoral wind plan. Hey!, how much is the range of expiry?, from what year? Since when they don't rule. That's the date. Look, were they predators with this sectoral wind plan? Or were these areas not environmentally important to you then? Your Honor, a bit of rigour. Look, it's very hard to talk to you seriously when you make billboards with the provinces full of wind projects, which you don't know, Your Honor, if you're going to approve, whether you're going to go there or not. That you must deal with, Your Honor, that you constantly ask for the law to be violated. Because he asks you to paralyze projects without processing them, and that's illegal, Mrs. Presas. We're forced to process all projects, you can't refuse because you say so. In advance, you assume that all these projects are going to be licensed, when they're not. These projects will be evaluated and some will get license and some won't, Your Honor. Then they're starting out of falsehoods. And, as I said, both the Galician and the State Government are obliged to process all wind projects. The state, the more than 50 megawatts and the board of Galicia, the less than 50 megawatts. By the way, you show a lot of vehemence with the Joint Projects, but you don't talk here about the mega-projects of the state, which you, your lordship, obviously, say that, on the other hand, you have already put forward the vice-president according to which they will report unfavorably, because they are, precisely, out of the sectoral area, of the sectoral wind plan, Your Honor. That's why they're going to report unfavorably, because we have a sectoral wind plan in which the projects have to be implemented and not outside this sector plan, where only tractor initiatives are allowed to be implemented. You start saying here a whole revolution, that we approve a predatory law... that, by the way, I'm going to tell you, I don't know, I think you should go out a little bit more of Galicia, even if it's virtual; I don't ask you to take the car and get out of Galicia -- or another means of transport -- that's virtually, take it around and see in other communities half the years they have the sectoral wind plans and also the laws and administrative axillization that are approving all the communities: similar to ours, Your Honor; to speed up, reduce bureaucracy of all these projects, not only windy and other renewable energies. Here a law has been passed, Your Honor, which does not approve wind farms throughout Galicia, as you say, lies!, within the wind sector plan and outside only tractor initiatives that are linked to employment. What you are asking for on this initiative, and something you voted against, because they voted against the Reactivation Act a few months ago in this Parliament, Your Honor. That's the reality. And you say here that we are leaders in renewable energy and that, as we are already leaders in renewable energy, hey! because we stop installing energy. But how can you have so little rigour! Do you know how much fossil primary energy does Galicia care? We've fallen, it's true, we've fallen, from... look, from 75% to 71%, that we've fallen in Galicia, but we're still importing, Your Honor. The Energy and Climate Plan says in 2030 -- of energy and climate and European targets -- that in 2030 we have to import only 60% of primary energy from fossil sources, Your Honor. They closed the thermals because they had to close here in advance, but we're still importing natural gas, Your Honor. So, we really need to install more renewable energy and not, as you say, stop installing because, as we're already a power, we're not installing. Secondly, it speaks of lack of environmental assurance and transparency in its processing. Look, the legislation we have in Spain -- we have explained it many times in this Parliament -- is very secure and transposes a Community directive, and there is a basic state law, which is environmental assessment 22/2013, which is the one that applies in Galicia and the rest of Spain. It is therefore the rules that continue to apply, which were and will remain the same and have not changed because no law had been passed in this Parliament, Mrs Presas. Look, the reality is that this government hasn't put into operation any wind farms on Nature Network, only three repotentials, only three repotentials, while you, Your Honor, have put six projects in your government, during the bipartite, on Natura Network. And do you know who authorized those projects? Let's see if he's alone? Energy Power, the Wind Action... Oh, all small businesses, Your Honor, they're all small businesses and no oligopolie company! Look, it's just like the demagogy of when they rule, of when they had the opportunity to rule -- that was only four years -- that when they're in opposition, Your Honor, that lacks respect, lacks intelligence, as said earlier by a companion of yours. [[Applause]] Look, the truth is, they come up with an environmental presumptive, when they didn't approve any extension of the Natura Network or... they left an extension projected, Mr. Seco said here. All right, they left it all projected. It turns out that in that government all they projected, but they couldn't do anything, that's reality; that's reality, gentlemen. Look, the truth is, when you talk about propaganda, you also liked taking pictures opening parks, especially the parks that were projected in Mr. Fraga's Government. Yeah, they liked that too, taking pictures of those openings. Look, with regard to social participation, the same thing, in Environmental Law 21/2013 there is already social participation and public participation and so on, as you said here, that you have no information. You have explained here to the councillor several times, the second vice president, that information will be given in advance to the municipalities, because I am the closest administration, but that information has been made available both in the Territorial Headquarters and on websites as well as in the Galician Union itself. Look, about the lack of profitability in the sector, which is something that they constantly say, or the lack of agreement, that they are against all the owners, that there is no agreement... the vice president has told you several times, we've already told you here. There's agreement in most projects, up to 85% in the last 2019. The reality is that you want to demean an area that is coming up here, as Mr Seco said, almost 1% of GDP, almost 7,000 jobs between direct and indirect, and that doesn't matter to you. I am grateful that they now re-value the wind cannon, against which they were absolutely against, now I appreciate it, but what they cannot pose is that we put a wind cannon by power. Mrs. Presas, you, who has been in charge of constantly criticizing the territorial supplement, know that if we record by power, it will actually entail a supplement. Don't do that, because that's the reality. The wind cannon records the impact on the aerogeor's visual environment, not the power, the power is electrical energy, Your Honor, and that's why companies could actually charge us a supplement. That's what I think you don't want, neither do we, so it doesn't change. The wind cannon is like this in Galicia and both castles, Your Honor, and so on. It brings up to 250 million euros, which, of course, are not to be despised, Your Honor. As Mr Seco has well said, in addition to the wind canon, these companies pay taxes to the municipalities: in 2019, EUR 37.6 million and to the state, EUR 57.6 million via taxes. As for rent to the owners, 11 million euros, Your Honor, in 2018 -- a data from the Galician Wind Observatory -- it's not for you to believe it, either, because it's from the Observatory. And, I insist, most wind projects are compatible with traditional agriculture and traditional earnings, they are compatible. Yes, no matter how hard you guys are, they're compatible, ladies and gentlemen. You come with recipes from the past, for public participation, which would have been a failure if that contest had gone ahead, because if they stopped... if they stopped, if the wind projects had stopped. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u119	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u120	It seems that the education that Mrs. Complaints so requested is not done on that side either. Look, your recipes are very old, ladies and gentlemen, and they're from the past, they're now from the past; they criticize here the sectoral plan but the Greek tariff is indeed from the last century, Your Honor, and you're what they ask, a public company, the Welsh tariff and public participation, which would have been a real ruin to Galicia. Look, as for Mr. Seco and PSOE's posture, which made a speech that we could well... I could share, Mr. Seco, all you said here, what I don't share is that you're totally showing nationalism. Please! it is that soon they will be reduced to the slightest expression, Mr. Seco, of both wanting to look like nationalists. Look, in conclusion, we're not going to approve this demagoxy-loaded initiative and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u122	...which stands against the wind sector, gentlemen. We create an environment- and rural-friendly wind sector, which is the edge of the rural environment. And today there are many projects presented, Your Honor, but you and I know they won't all go out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u124	You can't go around saying all the projects are going out ahead, those that have environmental guarantees... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u125	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u126	...and they comply with the law will come out, Your Honor, and those who do not do will not come out. They did the same thing with other initiatives and so it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u127	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u128	...in the end they were wrong, Your Honor. They're technicians who value projects and not you and me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u130	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the bill, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, if you want us to talk about yachts, we'll talk about yachts. I have no problem because even today the vice president of the board likes to name and that since the Nationalist Block Galego we feel proud of what he has done his job, you haven't seen him on a yacht with a recognized and convicted drug dealer, Mrs. Novoa. [[Applause]] And if you want to talk about pacts with electricity in this country, we can talk about Iberdrola's embrace, we can talk about Mrs. Bea Mato, in detail, whenever you want. [[Applause]] Anyway, to demagogy yours. Several questions that came up here on the table. About expiry, man!, Mrs. Novoa, because obviously in 2008 an aerogeor, -- and you know better than I do that you have technical training -- it was about half-diameter of what they measure today. There has been an evolution in technology, there has been an evolution also, fortunately, in the latter, in the consciousness of biodiversity and of the measures governments must take to defend and combat the climate crisis. And twelve years ago, fifteen years ago, in this country there was no mention of drought, problems of access to water in Galicia with the depth we speak to today, Mrs. Novoa. So, issues such as the allocation of water resources to the present day need a review. And if you want to compare yourself with regulations outside Galicia, actually. So let's talk, for example, about the distances to the population nuclei, about how they're coming down from the mountains, towards the areas closest to the population, and that actually has uses that are incompatible with other socio-economic uses, etc. And as for the falsehoods, you, of course, were on your side and then you didn't listen, you didn't hear how I referred, for example, to Rebordechao's state wind farm. Of course, the question is that you're doing merely cosmetic politics to self-sculpture in the face of society, to appear, on the plane... no, not those of the state we're reporting negatively, which, in addition, technically is not the issue. But then we see things like yesterday, yesterday, the environmental demolition advisor for walking through the Winterfell, and you have nothing to say about projects like Dry, Castrelo do Val, Fial das Corzas, which is the environment of Winterfell, which should be protected? And you're a demagogy specialist. Indeed, Mrs. Novoa, they are specialists, and I don't say it anymore, is that I have already told Justice, and that we have to remind Sasdonigas, Oribio, etc.... that productive optics of the Board of Galicia, Mrs. Novoa. I have not spoken either, but I am going to do it now, that we are indeed surpluses. Of course we care about fossil energy! I don't know if you have an oil pickup in San Cibrao; of course, if you have it public, because we had a way of richness there, but of course, indeed, we have to have that import of certain fossil energies at the moment. But speaking of electric generation and also of renewable generation, you know we just hit a wind power generation record. So the question is, we have time to make a plan. This group is not saying, it's not setting an initiative so that we don't have to process a single wind farm anymore in this country, it's not saying that we don't have to bet on renewable sources. What you're saying is that no, that you need a sorting and that you need a model change, and of course you have to bet on public participation!, because it was a mistake! I'm glad that now you recognize that the wind cannon is the environmental tax and that the wind cannon, in fact, we had to pay the Greeks and the Greeks on our bill thanks to a decision by Mr. Rajoy. But welcome to the correction now that we've just paid for it on our bill. But with public participation, which is not the assault on the winter palace either. Public participation in the U.S. sector, which is the paradigm of capitalism. But, of course, the question is that a model that bets on public participation would give us some of those benefits in a direct way. And we also bet that the administration actually has the capacity to control the sector. It's that nowadays all the industrial conflicts we have in our country, from the Bridges to Siemens-Gamesa, mostly have to do with the deregulation of the electricity sector, and with the surrender to private hands. Alcoa too, you know perfectly well. So of course we have to bet on public control, and of course we have to bet on reindustrialization. And you do demagogy, because you threw down a regulation that linked wind projects to industrial development plans and stopped doing so, and now what they do is they link strategically-interested projects to which the Galician Council decides absolutely everything, in each legislative change, lower the conditions. From 2015 to 2017 they reduced the number of jobs demanded, the number of investments of millions demanded, in this last law -- don't twist your head -- they went down again. And there are some powers given that should not correspond to the Council of Meeting in an untransparent and unguarantee manner. That's the question, because, today, of the wealth that these companies' arks earn, there are a few cents left of alms in this country, and we defend an energy model for this country's service, not charity, because it's our wealth, it's our environmental resources, and of course, it had to have a return on socio-economic development,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u133	...that today there is neither for owners nor for municipalities nor for the board of Gaulza nor for the whole of the citizens. So we don't bring demagogy, but what we bring is clear and concise proposals, such as this new wind sector plan, like a new planning, so that there's an economic return, measures like those mentioned earlier, that in my first shift I didn't have time, like a model type contract, like research and generation programs in added value...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u135	...and a long and so forth. Because another model is possible. And the problem is not wind energy, the problem is wind energy in the hands of the People's Party Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and four other Members, on the design and development of a plan for the promotion and economic reactivation of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal To this non-law proposal, an amendment has been tabled, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replace the resolution with the following text:"The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to promote an agreement with the Government of the State for the economic, demographic and reindustrialization of the Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal districts, which incorporates, inter alia, the following measures:1. Related to the naval sector:1.1. Request the entry of the Galician Union into the Navantia Board of Directors, as provided for in the Galician Autonomy Statute and the Galician Naval Sector Promotion Act.1.2. Establishment of a Naval Technology Centre1.3. To set up a working table in conjunction with the government of the Spanish state, and the trade union federations with representation in the sector, for the development and implementation of a plan for diversification and recovery of activities in the center of Navantia Ferrol River, including the following aspects: regaining civil naval construction in Fene, ensuring that the marine wind projects in which Navantia participates will be carried out in the center of Fene, introducing the Factory of Turbinas in the technology sector for the decarbonization of maritime mobility, building new infrastructures for new work and repairs: workshops, dams, lifting elements, etc. development and implementation of a plan for the diversification and recovery of activities in the centre of Navantia Ferrol River, including the following aspects: regaining civil naval construction in Fene, ensuring that the floating marine wind projects in which Navantia participates will be carried out in the centre of Fene, introducing the Factory of Turbinas in the field of technologies for the decarbonization of maritime mobility, construction of new infrastructures for new work and repairs: workshops, dams, lifting elements, etc.1.4. The immediate adjudication and execution of the works of transformation of the ship GALICIA, of the Ministry of Defence, the Navantia River of Ferrol. 1.4. The immediate adjudication and execution of the works of transformation of the ship GALICIA, of the Ministry of Defence, the Navantia River of Ferrol.2. Related to the energy sector:2.1. Establishment of a public enterprise that concentrates public energy assets, both hydrological and windy, etc.2.2. Approval of a Welsh electric tariff which serves as a competitive advantage for the Italian industrial fabric. 2.3. Impulse and financing of industrial projects related to energy in the Village of Bridges, including the establishment of a Centre for R & D+i for energy storage in Bridges.3. Related to Ferrol:3.1. Constitution of a single command for the regeneration of the Ferrol River, especially for the coordination effects of all jurisdictions in the river, and for consultation with the marine sector.3.2. Commitment to start before June 30th the Integral Study of the Laughing Situation. 3.2. Commitment to start before June 30th the Integral Study of the Rhythm Situation.4. Related to the Natural Park of the Strawberries of the Eume:4.1. Incentive of the process for the negotiated development of the Rector Plan for Use and Management (PRUX) of the Natural Park of the Strawberries of the Eume. 4.1. Drive of the process for the negotiated development of the Rector Plan for Use and Management (PRUX) of the Natural Park of the Strawberries of the Eume.4.2. Economic allocation to promote economic alternatives, and changes in use for those restricted or limited activities that were incompatible with the objectives of protection of the Park.5. Related to natural heritage, landscape, historical, archaeological, ethnographic and artistic heritage:5.1. Launch a plan for the recovery, restoration and value of the heritage of the comarcas.5.2. Take advantage of this heritage wealth to diversify the tourist offer.6. Related to the industry linked to agricultural and forestry resources:6.1. Diversification of the mountain and recovery of land 6.2. Promotion of ecological crops.6.3. Closing of industrial cycles 6.4. Promotion of proximity circuits.7. Plan to restore and restore built-in housing.8. Improves new technology frameworks."]] Mr. Arangéna Fernández has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal have been affected by the loss of productive tissue since the industrial conversion of the 1980s. And this was the hand of the loss of population, with about 26,000 people less in the city of Ferrol in the last four decades. There's no better indicator of a city's vitality than its population, because cities with powerful economies gain population, whereas cities with economies in decline are losing. And Ferrol has reached its peak population in 1981, with 91,764 inhabitants. By 1990 it had 86,000 and 2000 it had 81,000; by 2010, 73,000; by 2020 65,560. Therefore, in these 40 years of autonomy, of which we do not forget that the PP has ruled 34 years in Galicia, the decline in the population of Ferrol has been constant, along with its economy. And with Mr. Feijóo's governments, between 2009 and 2020, Ferrol lost 8,713 inhabitants, i.e., the most accelerated population loss took place precisely during Mr. Feijóo's governments, which in 2009 acquired 13 commitments with Ferrol of which 11 years later we could say that it met approximately two and a half. A lot of unmet promises for Ferrolterra, nothing from the naval center of repairs, nothing to push the Leixa polygon and the industrial floor, nothing from the high-capacity track between Ferrol and The Navy; sanitation of the river so incomplete that today there are 500 sailors less than when Mr. Feijóo arrived. Recovery of the castle of San Felipe and conversion to a center of thalastherapy: a joke. Transatlantic spring: another joke. Rehabilitation of the old city: another joke. Centro de promotion turística comarcal: nothing. Bet on the Ferrol campus: non-existent; and on the promised health centers: nothing at all. That's the level of commitment to Mr. Feijóo's Ferrolterra. [[Applause]] By the way, every four years I repeat exactly the same promises, he repeats them every four years. And before the pandemic, the Endesa company's decision to close the thermal power plant of the Bridges, due to the enormous increase in the cost of CO2 emissions rights in the European market -- a decision that is still pending from the tests to replace coal with other fuels -- already involved a problem for the economy of the area, aggravated by the closures or problems of many other smaller companies such as Poligal and one long and a long et cetera. But the economic crisis associated with the effects of this pandemic, with an unprecedented fall in GDP since the civil war, implies a new shift in the nuts to the business difficulties of the area, which will most likely generate a significant increase in unemployment that is already being materialized by the ERTE. As an example, the announcement of the closure of the Gamesa factory in Somozas, which aims to relocate to Portugal, as hundreds of companies from all over Galicia have done in the last decade, and a situation that, despite the passiveness of the Union, has been seen for years, because the company has not affected the investments needed to adapt its production. By the way, do you know how many companies relocated to Portugal during Mr Feijóo's term of office and before the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to the Government? For 300 in 2017, and I'm talking about relocated Greek companies, according to a study by the Financial Club of Ourense. In early 2018, another information was about 500 Galician companies that kept their headquarters in Galicia but chose northern Portugal to grow. And today, in 2021, they're even more than 2017. And in 2017 you recognized that you were worried -- specifically, Mr. Rueda -- but they haven't done anything since then, until 2018 they found out that the blame was for the Central Government, that is, companies fled to Portugal because they knew that in 2018 a progressive government would arrive to the state. [[Applause]] And we can blame the central government for everything in Galicia or Ferrol, but you know they lie like old men every time they say so. In any case, rather than the avoidance of responsibilities that you occupy -- what we are concerned about -- is the situation of Ferrolterra. And the general strike that took place a short time ago is an example of the greatest concern of the region for the economic and industrial situation, aggravated by the problems of the naval pending the beginning of the manufacture of the F-110 frigates, committed by the progressive government and which, with 4,317 million euros, will involve the greatest industrial investment in Galician history, but which has periods of development that do not solve the current situation. And we all know that the situation in the naval sector is extremely complicated for reasons that are perfectly close to any government, which, being already very complicated before the pandemic, after the pandemic, is much more complicated even by the fall of the maritime transport of goods and passengers and economic uncertainty, and by the government's budgetary difficulties in commissioning military ships, because now -- we know -- priorities are different from military ships, all of which makes requests cut drastically in both civil and military construction. On the other hand, when the government of the state changed in 2018, Navantia was in a situation of cause of dissolution, that is, technically broken. A broken-down public company, which the state injected a capital year after year, 200 million euros a year. And just in 2017 Navantia recorded the biggest losses in its history, with 297 million euros. A broken company and the biggest losses in history, that's what left the Rajoy government in Ferrol, and you applauded, by the way, with your ears. And in December 2018, to deal with this technical breakdown situation, the current government signed a strategic plan according to the workers' representatives, with the aim of maintaining activity in all centres, the viability of the company, modernizing processes and adapting to the needs of the market. But the situation has worsened by the pandemic, and all administrations must be involved in getting Navantia, the auxiliary industry, and the rest of the economy in the area. Yes, it must be remembered once again that the administration that manages Galicia's largest budget, with great difference, is the Union and that industrial policy and economic promotion are the full competences of the Galician Union, according to Article 30 of the Autonomy Statute, that you seem to forget every day even though you haven't been exercised in the last eleven years, as the fact that in those years, under the governments of Feijóo, in Ferrol if you lose 8,713 inhabitants. [[Applause]] And we can also talk about the situation in Ferrol's river, where, when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the board meeting, they were mascading like I said, 600 people, but today he's on a decline such that 70 people cannot get to seamanship, in a sporadic and insufficient way to get a minimum of subsistence. And, unheard of, Junta doesn't even know what's going on in that creek and what's due to the fall in the fall of production, despite the fact that seafarers have been asking for a comprehensive study to know what's going on in the stream. I am studying that, by the way, the 8th Commission has already committed itself to the initiative of the PSdeG, with the unanimity of the other groups, but which is still not done. In this grave context, the need for economic reactivation in the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal is more than obvious, it is more urgent and priority than ever, and the Next Generation funds imply a unique and unrepeatable opportunity to compensate for the economic effects of the pandemic while improving our productive tissue. A unique and unrepeatable opportunity to get us out of the crisis, at the same time modernizing our society. An opportunity that can mobilize billions of euros for Galicia to bet on the productive economy and not on four friends in friendship capitalism mode. And what we ask of the Union is, precisely, that it should be relegated, that it should leave the opacity, that it should speak to civil society, to all civil society, and to the rest of the administrations, and that it should be transparent in the projects that are intended to be promoted, that it does not bet the worst of what seems to have been installed since the government changed, unfortunately, that it exercises its competences in industrial policy and economic promotion, because it has all the world, and can do with them much more than it has done in the last 11 years, especially in Ferrolterra. Do it by Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal, do it by Galicia. Nothing more and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u139	Good afternoon to all and to all. I want to begin my intervention as in the previous plenary session, sending from here a strong attachment to the retaliation staff in the Cándido Hermida company. And going to the matter that we are dealing with, I'd like to be able to convey, to bring this plenary assembly, the feeling of disappointment, concern and indignation, the same parts, which are increasingly being felt by people in the district of Ferrol. A few weeks ago, the People's Party presented a proposal for a state pact by Ferrol, a proposal that they put forward for dialogue and collaboration between administrations, without more. We voted for it. A few days later, the Board sent to mayors and trade unions in the district of Ferrol a document in which, in fact, it is called to open a dialogue between administrations and social agents, but now around a series of proposals. Some proposals that -- I insist on this -- were not included in the initiative that was previously voted on here, that were hidden from Parliament, in an exercise of genuine political trilerism. The state pact document that I propose to the Union, in general terms, is a disincentive, because apart from a series of statistical data, which I am not going to comment on because it would not give me time, it talks about such amazing things as avoiding the relocation of the textile industry. But do you have any idea how many cut textiles they've closed in Ferrol in the last 20 years, precisely because of the relocation? They also talk about avoiding the relocation of plastic production, two years after the closure of Poligal. Good morning, you'll remember Joine to avoid relocations! They talk about boosting the agricultural cooperatives of Val and Meirás, which are not agricultural cooperatives, are consumer cooperatives. By the way, that the two, both Val and Meirás -- as well as some, like Vilaboa -- have credit sections that since Galician Union are committed to treating as if they were conventional banking entities, which means they have an increase in the very important costs in their operation. But what is most disappointing, concern and indignation is that in your document, after analyzing the demographic and employment data of the region, and after recognizing that, despite 40 years of successive and different plans, the region does not improve, you continue to insist, you continue to re-enact the same conduct and policy that put us in this situation. The Union's plan draws more attention to its silence, so it hides and intends to leave out than to its shortcomings, no matter how serious. As for the village of the Bridges and the closure of Endesa, you continue to insist on biofuels, but without explaining what that means. What are we talking about? How many groups would work? How long? What volume of staff would it take? At what price would the kilowatt enter the system? And, above all, after Endesa's refusal to assume that project, what alternative does Joina use to run the project? Another company? You're doing this directly by making up a public company? This week, again, the crisis committee of the Bridges, where there are the three trade union centres, employers and all the municipal political groups, denounces the abandonment by the Government of Spain and by the board of Galicia, and explicitly warns that biofuels are not the solution. As far as the naval sector is concerned, the People's Party and the PSOE share designs and proposals for Navantia Ría de Ferrol. And this is the biggest problem in the region, the reason why we've been 40 years of demographic, economic and employment decline, the reason why there's no comarcal plan that can reverse a crisis that in Ferrol's region, as all the data indicate, is not new, against what says the explanatory statement of the PSOE initiative, because it's hard enough to blame the coward of the county situation, just as it is hard to blame Navantia's situation on the fall of orders from the world ship market, a market where, of course, it doesn't even compete because they don't leave him. We can be competitive in all markets. They give all the political speeches on economic recovery that we have to choose sectors or companies with tractor capacity to boost the economy, to be selective. Well, this is precisely the definition of a company like Navantia, a tractor company, 1,800,000 square meters, all of public property. They assume that the naval sector is the only one capable of creating thousands of jobs in the district of Ferrol, freeing themselves, releasing Navantia and freeing the territory of Ferrol from chains, vetoes and restrictions, and moving towards the recovery and diversification of activities in Navantia and Ferrol. And this is mainly due to two issues, two areas of action in which both the Union and the Government of Spain should be involved. The first is a decisive action within the framework of the European Union to declare shipbuilding as a strategic sector, as well as to prohibit aid for the construction of ships receiving shipowners from the European Union from being spent on shipyards outside the European Union. That's what the BNG has been warning for years now is being denounced also by the German employer of shipbuilding, in the fear that his industry will disappear in favor of Asian builders. The governments of the European Union, Spanish and Greek must immediately put themselves in this, but they don't talk about it, neither do they. And the second is a decisive action in the field of R & D+i, especially with regard to maritime mobility and other issues aimed at increasing and improving the productivity of shipyards. We can be competitive in all shipbuilding and maritime technologies markets, but for that we have to make decisions and drive action in the European Union, but also in the field of research, with the establishment of a technology centre for shipbuilding. In this, as in so many things, no investment in research there is no future. However, they still vote for R & D+i under 1% of GDP, far away from 2.5% that calls for the European Union. The board's document also doesn't say anything about the Natural Park of the Straits of the Eume, which has been waiting for the development of a master plan for use and management for more than 20 years. It is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to initiate proceedings for their elaboration, a elaboration which must be consensual with all the parties involved. And it's also urgent to provide the park with resources to make it another source of wealth for our region. The Junta document insists on a vision of routine tourism, rendering it in common places such as the English Way or industrial tourism, and says nothing to recover and value the impressive archaeological, ethnographic and historical heritage of the region. Imagine the potential of a triangle formed by Lobadiz's castle in Doninos, the hermitage of Santa Comba in Covas and the Castro de Vilasso and the Molexa Pen in the Vale. Imagine the recovery of Monfero monasteries or the monastery of Santa Catarina in Ares, both of Andrade's time. Imagine the potential of the path of Santo André de Teixido, just to put some examples of what could be done with marked monuments of the comarcal heritage, currently in ruins. He drew attention to the fact that the small part of the Board's document reserves the Ferrol River to be limited to asking that the CEDEX, an agency of the Ministry of Transport, should carry out such a necessary, urgent study of the situation of the river. It draws attention that the Union does not come to value those fundamental issues that are in the productive problem of the river, including the maracism of competences suffered by people working in the sector, or the continued installation of artificial barriers. He drew attention to the fact that Junta did not demand to exercise a single command in the river, or to have the economic resources needed to drive, in an agile and functional way, the regeneration of the river. In short, he draws attention to the resumption of the Board's document, as he said, in keeping it in a totally subaltern plane as far as Navantia is concerned. None of the board's entry. As for the energy transition, nothing to constitute a public energy company. As far as Ferrol's laugh is concerned, there's no single command in the creek. As far as our natural and landscaped heritage is concerned, there is nothing about the PRUX of the Fragas Park. Or our historical, archaeological and ethnographic heritage. This subordinate position in respect of the designs and interests imposed upon us from Madrid clearly appears as the ultimate and authentic cause of the situation in the district of Ferrol. Breaking these dynamics, betting on our productive sectors and putting them in value is fundamental to reactivating our economy and bending the curve of the decline in our neighborhoods. That's the state pact Ferrol needs. And for that, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, honestly, we do not need to carry out new and successive academic studies, which, on the other hand, already exist. We need to get rid of political dependencies and act, get rid of restrictions. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that after reading this initiative carefully -- I tell you with all humility, Mr. Aranguena -- I don't know very well what we're talking about. I don't know very well whether we're talking about Ferrol or whether we're talking about political strategies. I really believe that this initiative is late and out of focus. The truth is, I understood it when I saw the record of the proposals, because it's a proposition exactly the same as the one presented by your group to the Town Hall of the Crown. It's really not that we don't value Coruña exactly like Ferrol, but I don't think we can compare the situation that Ferrol has with the situation of Coruña in some specific ways, to conclude with the same proposal and with the same initiative, which is what they propose in the same way. The truth is they took that initiative, the same one, and seven days later they presented it the day after the general strike that took place in Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal on March 10. And I think the Socialist Group's answer can't be a cut and paste. A response to a general strike that had the support of all the political groups in the city, which had the support, of course, of the unions, and even of the entrepreneurs. The situation in Ferrol and the region is a truly dramatic situation, an emergency situation. And Mr. Fernández Alfonzo has already told you, I think he blames the pandemic on the situation that our city has, the situation in the naval sector, I think it's a reductionism that indicates that there is a lack of knowledge of the problems. And if you don't know the problems, you can hardly propose solutions. I really recommend not to talk about the fall of sea transport in Ferrol. Look, we've told you once again in this Parliament: the shipping of what we're talking about, the ships we're talking about, are ships to the Navy. So, I think I'm bringing here the collation of the maritime traffic movement -- Mr. Alfonzo told you that, in the end, I don't think it's very reasonable. Look, Mr. Arangüena, the city of Ferrol was born to build boats and to house the Spanish Navy ships. We're a city serving the state -- and we certainly don't agree with the deputy of the BNG -- but the ferrolans are proud of our city. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why we don't consider it advisable for some Members of the Socialist Party to go to Ferrol to say that the naval situation has nothing to do with governments, which is what they textually say to their proposal, and, indeed, that I think it is to ignore the fundamental economic tractor of our region that is a shipyard, Navantia, a 100 percent public yard. So I think political decisions will have something to do with what happens in a 100 percent public yard, whose main client is the Spanish Navy, 100 percent public. The Spanish Army's economic impact agreements are adopted in a Council of Ministers. That's why I think, frankly, governments have a lot to do with the situation that Ferrol's city is going through. And that's why from this group what we propose is a state pact, because, if our city was a city that was born by a state decision, the state in times of difficulty, what we can't do is look elsewhere, when we're losing a lot of jobs. [[Applause]] And when a lot of people have to emigrate as a result of political decisions by the state, govern who governs. But I have to remind them that he has already been ruling the Socialist Party for three years and that in the last 40 years most of the time in Madrid he has ruled the Socialist Party. Because, look, I was talking about history on numerous occasions. But I want to tell you about the history of Ferrol, because there are many Members here who still remember the prosperous Ferrol, the Ferrol with boots in Astano or Bazán, with streets full of people, with children playing in the squares with electrodes, with people who thought there was a lot of future in the naval, because from generation to generation families worked and lived in the naval sector. And everything changed, that's what he said, he didn't say why, I won't say it either because everyone knows it; and, especially, everyone knows it in Ferrol. Everything changed in 1982 with a so-called industrial conversion. Because the word conversion indicates that there was an industry and we were going to change it to something else, and it was an industrial dismantling. Because that government, and the 14 years that came after, created absolutely no industry, no company, no job. Mr. Aranguena, they have been misled, and that's why in Ferrol we have a little allergy to the word plan, to the word study, to the word diagnosis. Because we still remember -- I remember very well -- the sign that was at the entrance of Ferrol, on the bridge of the piás, which was called "ZUR." We didn't know very well what it was, but we all stood in the retina, because we saw it every time we entered the city: zone of urgent reindustrialization, Ministry of Economy of the Government of Spain. Well, that was the first plan. I can also tell you about the second, also a poster in Astano -- that was a little earlier -- coming to Ferrol, in Astano, a huge poster that put "Next opening, glass factory." Look, I studied at Ibáñez Martín school in Recimil, in cheap houses, in Ferrol, and many of my classmates had told their parents that they were going to go to Italy because that glass factory was Italian. Well, we spent the afternoons working in Italian, because soon they were going to go to Italy, and that big factory was going to be set up in Astano, in the lands where our whole life saw how the ships were launched. When we went there, Astano, on Saturdays, we went up to the port crane -- which was our amusement park -- was Vargas, Alíquera and what was taking the port crane. Yeah, yeah, that's all the plans they sold us. That's why in Ferrol, really, Mr. Aranguena, we don't really like being told about plans. We don't like to be told "the biggest investment in history, the F-110 frigates." Look, I'm not going to argue about what happened to the F-110 frigates -- if you want to, too, is that some information I have --. But, look, it's just to repeat and repeat the argumentary of the biggest investment... look, before the F-110 there was the F-100 series, and before the F-100 there were the F-80s, and before the F-70s, and before the F-30s. And before, even, the rabid Spain in 1912, which were very important because they allowed the Government of the People's Party to do the same thing in Navantia, which was to build ships, and, at the same time that these new ships were built to renew the Spanish Navy -- this I know that some of the same Members don't like it -- because the transformation was done, the great transformation of the yard. And 100 years later it was what was being planned, what was initially approved in 2016 and what was finally approved in 2018. Look, I think we're here, in difficult situations, to find solutions, not to see who made it worse. That's why I really propose to you, Mr. Arunguena, that we talk about Ferrol, the real Iron, not the Iron of the parties. From Ferrol who has lost 1,000 jobs in the naval sector in the last year. Ferrol who, if you don't make a decision now, will lose another 1,000 jobs in the next few weeks. Look, it happened with the BAM, first they abstained, then all unanimously, a wonder. But, of course, then in Madrid, because here we all vote yes and no in Madrid. Of course, there was no need for the BAM, because the BAM is doing in the south. Then, with regard to the BNG initiative -- I have to say this -- we all vote with great joy on the Galician ship too, we will transform the Galician ship. Look, the unions were already coming up with the transformation of the Galician ship, after they had said something about some big ship. We totally agree. Can you tell us, Mr. Aranguena, where is the Galician ship? The last thing I know about the Galician ship is that it leaves the port of Vigo today. I don't know if you know the course, this is a pretty serious subject. The decision to where a public ship goes is a decision made by the Government of Spain, so it would be very good if it made it clear to us; because it would be extremely serious that, in Galicia the Galician ship, it would be transformed into a yard, the one in Cartagena, which doesn't even have repair boards. That's why I think this would be very important if the Socialist Party were to clarify it. And, indeed, I have here the state pact for Ferrol. That's what the unions demanded from us, that's what the employers demanded from us; most importantly, it's what the ferrolans demanded from us. Look, the initial document. It's just that something happened after the strike, and we want to thank Alberto Núñez Feijóo for taking a step forward, surely the document is improved. It is now the Economic Vice-President of the Union meeting with mayors, meeting with the unions, meeting with businessmen to arrive at a final document. So our proposal is that we talk about Ferrol and we don't talk about so much about parties, because it's about doing something about Ferrol, because it's not about looking somewhere else like some of them did in the '80s. We really want to get off the branch...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u143	...and studying at the desk, because we're born to make ships and we want to keep doing boats. We want the dam to stay competitive. We want the modernization of the arsenal. We want the regenerating of the river, Mr. Arunguena, after the stream has been healed. It's just that you don't know that 200 million euros have been invested and that you've passed from a classification of zone C to zone B at the moment and that the Galician Union is looking forward to someone giving birth to the last work you've executed worth 7 million euros. But, in any case, it's very important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u145	We want industrial alone. We want, of course, new Next Generation projects to diversify employment and we don't just depend on the naval if they settle in our neighborhood. We want to bet on tourism, the green economy, innovation, employment and equality. Those are the bets of the state pact for Ferrol and we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u147	...is that everyone can row in the direction that Ferrol gets better because if Ferrol goes well, he'll get better in Galicia too. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u148	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Arangéna Fernández speaks for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alfonso, February 25, 2007, holder of El País: "The BNG calls for the support of Congress to privatize Astano." A year ago, another holder -- I'm not going to read the headline -- : Nestor Rego asked to cut the defence budget to forgive mortgages and renters, to cut the defence budget, with the implication that it obviously has for the construction of military ships. I can only tell you that you can't be in Mass and repeat, you can't be in Mass and repeat! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Rey, you know perfectly well -- I suppose -- that the drastic fall that the naval, civilian and military industry experienced during the year 2020 -- but drastic! -- something will have to do with the pandemic, of course, not with the coronavirus, with the economic effects of the pandemic. I suppose you know that, since it comes from Ferrol. An unprecedented fall in GDP leads to a reduction in civilian and military demands; military also, of course, because budget priorities at a time of pandemic are different from those of the construction of military ships. But the problems of Navantia are previous. First of all -- I've told you and I repeat it -- 297 million losses in 2017, Rajoy's last year, the biggest losses in Navantia's history. But secondly, I'm going to read another headline: "The Rajoy government has stopped the construction of frigates in Navantia for two years to adapt them to the missiles of the company of Morenés." A very serious accusation which was not denied, for I suppose, if I were Mr. Morenés, I would have sued this medium, for this is very serious, very serious. And, therefore, don't come here to say that the problems of Navantia stem from the new progressive government, because they know the inheritance you left in Navantia. He says you're offering a state pact for Ferrol. I have no doubt that they will find total reception from the state and local administration to take forward any positive initiative for the region -- I can say no more --. But what they can't do is cover up the escapism and the inaction of the deal because those who have exclusive competition -- I repeat -- to make industrial policy are you. And who has an IGAPE and who has an economic vice-presidency and Economic Counsellor, Enterprise and Innovation are you, and therefore you have the primary responsibility, in addition to competition and budgeting. And your document for a state pact by Ferrol said Mr. Alfonzo is a disincentive. I tell him otherwise: it's a coat of hair, it's a letter to the Magi. Like your lists of projects for the Next Generation Funds, another letter to the Magi Kings, and Galicia won't get out of this crisis with letters to the Magi Kings. Your document is a cluster of percrulladas and inaccuracies. They say you have 100 measures, the subtitle of the cover of that document. I tell them they are, many of them, directly laughing and I'm going to read some. Financial and direct support to companies for the maintenance of their business. Are you referring to the 234 million that the government gave this year to businesses and self-employed people, who add up to the 224 that it delivered to them in 2020 to compensate for the fall in economic activity? How much are you going to put on? Capitalisation of companies. All right, tell them how much they're going to make to capitalize businesses. Support the production structures of the primary sector. All right. How will they do it and how much money will they put on? Push the opening of new markets. What markets are they talking about and how are they going to do it? Promotion of precision agriculture. This one's very good, very good, but I ask them: how are they going to encourage it? how much money are they going to put on? The impulse of the ecological farmer. With this one they got so crazy of thinking. I ask them, how will they push her and how much money will they put? potentiating new markets for fruit and vegetable production. I ask them, how are they going to do it? How much money are they going to put on? Development of floriculture. Well, that's great, but they'll have to say whether they opt for roses or orchids. I'll tell you what, I'll sing for the orchids. But I ask you, how much money are you going to put on for floriculture? [[Applause]] Support and increase support for rural economic growth. Very bright. How much money will they put for that purpose? Look, we know what the local administrations are doing in this crisis: being the first line in the fight against the pandemic and for the reactivation and meeting the inappropriate competencies of the Union, such as cleaning and disinfection of health centres or schools or social policy. We know what the State is doing: coordinate health and economic policy and create an unprecedented social shield in our history. What about you, who have competences full of industrial policy and social policy, and support for the economy on the territory, which do apart from spilling the bulk and advertising? Tell us they're... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u150	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u151	... and finished, Mr. President -- tell us what they do or are willing to do for Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal today when in the last 11 years they have broken the practice of all their promises.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u153	And to finish, Your Honor, with respect to the amendment of the BNG, we will not accept it, because it is a substitution amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u155	...and it is an amendment which, by the way, has already been debated and has counted on our affirmative vote in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero de D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in the field of protection and protection of minors, as well as on the development of a specific plan to combat child poverty in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u157	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u158	Thank you, President. Child poverty in Galicia, the indicator that something is not well done. Article 17.2 of Organic Law 1/1996: In a situation of risk of any kind, the intervention of the competent public administration shall in any case guarantee the rights of the minor and shall be directed to reduce the risk and difficulty indicators affecting the personal, family and social situation in which it is located, and to promote measures for its protection and preservation of the family environment. Already with precovid data, ladies and gentlemen, 1 out of 4 minors in Galicia was at risk of poverty. Today we know that the Autonomous Community of Galicia is at the expense of social services per capita throughout Spain. It is urgent to analyse the current context thoroughly to find out what the reality is right now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] We are fully aware that people who have never been users of social services or even before the pandemic collaborated in the fight against poverty, whether voluntary or economically, today are those who are calling at the doors of social services or even of dining rooms or entities in the third sector. Many of the people in our own environment may be experiencing very complex situations surely without our being aware of it. And all this is in addition to structural poverty that already existed in the past. We're living in a dramatic situation that we still don't know the true scope, but there's one thing we know for sure: that the weakest part of this crisis is them, the children, the damaged children. The exclusive competences in the social field or in social services correspond to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as referred to in Article 27.23 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia. A few weeks ago several associations fighting for children's rights came into contact with all the representative groups of citizenship in this House warning of unfortunate statements by the highest responsibility of the Government of Greece in social policy. In particular, the adviser associated the lack of resources with the increase of children protected by the Union that is happening in Galicia. And that's why they have to start by rejecting the counsellor's words, when he explained the increase of minors protected by the increase in the poverty of the Greek families by the coward. Is the policy on the right to allow families to lose custody of their children for economic reasons? Do you not understand that the rights of children, children and families are being violated in this case rather than by a programme against child poverty? It's a dangerous and totally wrong association, as the professionals who specialize in minors know, because the lack of resources alone is not an item that determines the loss of custody of a child in any case, because for that it has to be the competent administration in social services such as Joina to solve these situations. Because, as solely competent in social matters, the Greek Government must guarantee the rights and remedies to all minors in Galicia. [[Applause]] It is therefore urgent to supplement the amounts of inclusion income, taking into account the threshold of relative poverty. On 1 December last year in the Commission on Social Policy Budgets this year, we have already warned from the Socialist Group that it was urgent to adapt the current risk legislation to allow complementarity with the minimum vital income. We're moving ahead with what's happening now, gentlemen. We warn, on several occasions, of responsibility to this government, that you have preferred to look elsewhere, and now you will send a new bureaucratic mission signed by the Union claiming the money of several months of the Risk to more than 2,000 users who have granted the minimum vital income, vulnerable and damaged people of this crisis and many of them with minors in charge. We urge the Government of Greece here and now to cancel the claims of these thousands of euros for all families who have less office. It is not fair that, by granting these 2,000 families at risk of exclusion, the minimum vital income, which by law itself allows complementarity with the Welsh income, is the Greek veto of Risga which prevents it, without the Government of Greece having done anything to amend the Act of Social Inclusion since it was approved, more than a year ago, the minimum vital income. [[Applause]] From the associations themselves that fight poverty and the rights of children, they warned, more than a year ago, that this crisis would mainly harm minors, children, adolescents and women, many of them monomantal mothers. The minors who rise under the poverty line or with insufficient income for their own personal development will inevitably be conditioned their future if we don't do anything, gentlemen. That's what's called the inheritance of poverty, which conditions the fate of today's children as adults at risk of exclusion tomorrow. And so on with the sons and daughters they have. That's why we must break that unfair chain that breaks the principle of equal opportunities in our society. It's time for the German Government to give them the importance it has in the reconstruction of Galicia to social policies. And here I want to make an important point on this issue by condemning the fact that Feijóo and the Government of Greece did not take into account the Social Policy Adviser, Mrs. Fabiola García, among other relevant advisers and women, in the society created by the Union for the management of European funds. I think it's nothing and a real contempt, both for being a woman and for being the ultimate leader of social policies in one of the cornerstones of reconstruction, as social policies in this country are. [[Applause]] In this 2021, Junta received more than 1,100 million euros from the state to the budgets of our community. And already received from the state, from the Government of Spain, 234 million for direct aid to self-government and pemes. Many resources for Galicia, more than ever received, but you have to manage them, lords of the People's Party. What have they done so far? What measures have they taken to protect children from the risks of increasing inequality and exclusion from cowardice? A little commitment from the Government of the People's Party of Wales, there is a lack of action and initiative to combat child poverty, when more than 7% of households have no income, when unemployment has grown more in Galicia than in any other community in the first quarter of this year, and that's why the minimum vital income supports more than 13,000 homes in Greece, with approximately 12,000 minors. But Junta can and should -- it's her duty -- to strengthen, to take action against child poverty, because children are sacred and we have to protect them, defend them and shield their rights, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Therefore, the letters of the Board to more than 2,000 people claiming them the months of the Risk, by maintaining incompatibility with the minimum vital income of 2,000, 3,000 and even 5,000 euros to families under the poverty line is inadmissible for cases of families with minors in charge. They cancel these claims and remove the additional funds that they received and frame these families with minors at risk. [[Applause]] Child poverty, ladies and gentlemen, is fought cross-sectionally, so it is urgent to fight poverty through effective and real housing plans. It must be borne in mind that housing eats most of the incomes of these families, so it's important to promote policies directed to affordable and dignified housing; and when we talk about minors, it's an obligation, not an option. Reconciliation is another key to the resources of families with minors in charge. It is unfortunate that, in the midst of a pandemic that has put the importance of reconciling families, the Greek Government has decided to cut the Council bond almost half for this year for those families who are left out of the child's schools or on a waiting list, as are the more than 2,000 children who are now without a place. The proximity policy, the one that looks at the eyes, the one that names and names, who knows who each one has been, is municipal policy, local policy. At the end of last year, Fegamp developed a study on the impact of the covid on the municipalities. As we suspected, they detected an increase of nearly 20,000 new users of social services. They're more today. The economic translation of this increase in demand for social services amounts to almost EUR 6 million per month additional to the basic month. Unicef, the FEMP and the High Commissioner against child poverty officially highlighted the role of the municipalities in this crisis. If social services are the door to access, entry and resolution of vulnerable people in this pandemic, if employment promotion is key to combating child poverty, why do you vote against, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to increase the party's commitment to promoting employment in the municipalities? Why are they voting against this? For all this, we propose to the Greek Government a comprehensive and specific plan against child poverty in Galicia, which pushes the resources for housing, for employment, to allow the complementarity of risk with other inclusion incomes, as is the case with the minimum vital income. We cannot see that Galicia has reached funds with billions on the part of the state and Europe, and we have to put responsibility and sensitivity in order to invest them. We never forget that children are not only the responsibility of their families, but of the community as a whole, of society as a whole. A few days ago, the State Congress approved with a high consensus organic law to protect children and adolescents from violence. One more step from the state government to advance in the rights of children. Today we are taking a step in Galicia to shield the equality and opportunities of minors in Galicia. Today more than ever, children are not only the future, but they have to be the present and the centre of all politics or action in the reconstruction of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u160	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Focusing on the issue of the non-law proposition of the Socialist Party, we agreed with Mrs Ortega's statement and it is also reflected in the explanatory statement, in which it is irresponsible to link the loss of custody or custody of children and children to a situation of economic difficulty and to do so, in addition, by starting it in the economic and social crisis caused by cowardly 19th. Any public official -- we believe from the BNG -- even more if you are the social policy advisor, must be absolutely scrupulous and prudent in addressing such complex situations for children and their families, which are seen in a situation of vulnerability and risk, in addition to social exclusion or poverty. And it must also be quite clear that the Greek legislation does not allow the custody or guardianship of the daughters and children to their parents for economic reasons and much less that the minors end up in a reception center for that reason. They have to combine other circumstances, beyond economics, also emotional, also psychological, and that is, in addition, the last option that is to withdraw the custody or guardianship of children and children, which occurs when there is no other solution to ensure the well-being and rights of children and, therefore, the best interest of the child who is the central target. That is the case, and this is not an opinion, it is collected in the relevant legislation, in Decree No. 42/2000, which reshapes all regulatory regulations, currently in force in Galicia, in matters of family, childhood and adolescence, and is also collected in both state and international legislation. So it's much more than understandable to the outrage and discomfort that the statements of the adviser, in a media, caused among the associations, especially those working with minors, such as Agamme or Agafem, who were the ones referring to Mrs Ortega, who came into contact with all the parliamentary groups asking for explanations for these statements, in which things must also be contextualized, because the counselor linked the 4% increase in the number of minors protected by the Union to the increase in the pandemic crisis and the economic situation of many families. And he did it, in addition, a few days after it happened, as everyone will remember, some events in the city of Coruña, where four minors ended up being made available to the administration of this country, after the release of a child who was kept in the city of Coruña. If that's the case -- and I fully agree with what Mrs. Ortega said -- if it's true what the counselor said in those public statements, who should assume responsibility is the Government itself, starting with herself. Because -- I insist very much on this -- they wouldn't be doing their job, which is to ensure that income, never, and the economic situation of families, never, can be reason to move children and children away from their parents. When it does, when Junta has to take over the custody or custody of children and children, it's because there's more to it than money left in those houses. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group -- and I want to highlight this very much -- when we talk about minors, especially minors in situations of poverty, social exclusion or the risk of suffering, those and public officials have a duty to be extremely cautious in our statements. We are immersed in a huge crisis, that is indisputable, it is about seeing the magnitude and depth of the social and economic consequences that this pandemic leaves behind, but the fact is that the data we already have, officers and provided, among others, by the Galego Institute of Statistics, which puts us on the table, is actually an increase in that poverty or the risk of suffering among many people who work in our country. The last wave or, let's say, the last structural survey of homes published by the IGE points to this increase. Nearly half of the Greek homes -- 47% -- have difficulty reaching the end of the month. Over a month and there's been a shortage of wages, and it's multiplied by two homes that arrive with a lot of difficulty at the end of the month with respect to the previous year's exercise. Especially serious is the situation of households, in fact, where children and children live because of the impact poverty has on children and adolescents. We agreed from the BNG that we need to know more in detail about the economic situation. So we have also defended it in the Committee on Economics and Business in this Chamber: the need to address with in-depth studies all the variables behind situations of risk of poverty or social exclusion, but, above all, we understand that we need to address the root of the problem, which we understand -- we have said many times in Commission 5a and in this plenary -- are three elements that, in our view, are behind those situations of vulnerability, poverty or social exclusion, which also affects, I insist, children and children. The first is the right to work, which is a fundamental right inherent to all people, for the simple fact that we are people, and that is the guarantee that we must seek with our political action. The second is the right to housing, whenever housing is precisely what takes first place as a cause for social exclusion in those families in situations of economic difficulty, moving traditional employment-related situations. 65 % of excluded persons are affected by this dimension. Their main factor of social and economic exclusion, that element that leads them to a situation of poverty, is the inability to sustain the rent payment, for example, or to face a mortgage, if that is the case. It is housing and therefore the right guarantee of one of the central elements in which one should work, and also, speaking of children and children, the situation in which families are found within those dwellings or, in other words, the conditions in which those homes are found. We have 140,000 people in this country who live in an inadequate housing, and more than 200,000 who live in an unsecured housing. What does that mean? That there are many houses that have no capacity to maintain an ideal temperature to be habitable, and that is directly related to health, not only for children and children, that of course, but also for adults. Right to work, right to housing and, thirdly, the guarantee of sufficient income. We say it many times: today, in our country, poverty is not the '80s or '90s. Having a job today and going to your job every day doesn't mean you're paying a salary that will allow you to arrive at the end of the month and meet the basic needs of your home. And if that's a drama for an adult person who lives alone, let's imagine for a family who has one or two minors in charge. We're talking about 130,000 people before the pandemic in this country whose income, whose wages, they didn't allow them to meet the basic needs of the house. And this is data from Caritas, which is quite far from being a subversive, philo-communist organism like those that we like the BNG ones. [[Applause]] But there's another question that I didn't want to let go either and that it has much to do with the matter of what we're talking about on this initiative and that it has to do with those girls and those kids who can't stay with their mothers or their parents for the reasons I said earlier, according to what always foresees the Greek legislation, which are very exceptional cases, I insist very much on this. And that's also about -- we believe from BNG -- with the need to strengthen family welcome. Today in Galicia there are about 1,300 minors living with foster families and 1,200 minors living -- worth redundancy -- in juvenile centers. It is urgent, and so demand, moreover, social entities, associations that work for the rights of minors in our country, increase resources to support welcoming families in Galicia, a network of welcoming families that is located in approximately 730 families in our country and which have very small assistance and, in addition, with enormous differences depending on the characteristics of the children or children who have them. To be synthetic and believing that everyone here in this chamber knows more or less the regulations, today the help for the vast majority of foster families who have children between 3 and 18 years of age is 280 euros a month. For a family that holds a baby up to a year -- 0-1 years -- it's 600 euros; 1-3 is 400; 3-18, which is the vast majority -- we're talking about very small children to adolescent people -- it's only 280 euros a month. It is necessary to strengthen that aid too, because it is a social responsibility, not only for those welcoming families, but for it is a shared responsibility for the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. In the pandemic, a reinforcement of this aid was announced by the administration of 25 %. That's 70 euros, and 70 euros don't even give you enough to pay for a combo of wifi, telephone and television from which we can have any of us at home, or much less to pay, for example, a computer, as many families have to buy to cope with telematics. We insist -- and with this end -- we will support this initiative. We understand that family hospitality is and must continue to be the priority mechanism to ensure the well-being of children and children, by primorizing it when possible, which is also true that this extended family shelter is not always. And increasing the help -- I repeat it again -- because family hospitality is the priority, but it's a shared responsibility, not only for this vast network of solidarity families, to which you have to thank every day, but that you also need to close all of us and all of your shoulders. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u162	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo's commitment to the fight against poverty could be summed up in two concrete data. The first: the funds devoted to poverty went from 66 million euros to 125 million euros for the budget of 2021 in 2009. Second, the funds devoted to Galician social integration income have nearly multiplied by three and increased from the 22 million euros that you allocated in 2009 to more than 64 million euros in the 2021 budget. And frankly, with this little more would have to add to what was said here today. Because the truth is that the well-being of families -- of all families, in all situations -- is one of the priorities of this Government, and so it reflects the 2021 budget, which is undoubtedly the most social budget in our history. Collaboration with social entities in the field of children: the funds have been multiplied by four; family shelters: 6% increased; social inclusion aids: 35% increased; you reach Galician food banks: over 50% increased; besides talking about the basic card, which is this discreet guarantee that comes from basic services and products the most needed families and with greater difficulties in Galicia. Finally, a clearly social budget, which I honestly thought was satisfactory for the Socialist Party of Galicia. And I'm saying that because these games I've just reported and the ones you mentioned today, the PSdeG did not make any amendments, none... well, I'm correct, one, which drew 250,000 euros from the social services benefit and subsidies. Every game has grown. That yes, as we live in the world of manipulation, Mrs Ortega reminded us that 50% of the Council bond has been reduced, and she has forgotten to tell us that it is because this is the first year in which this government -- the first in Spain -- declared the freeness of the stores for all second and next children of all the Galician families. And you accuse them of cutting. It's certainly a surprising thing about the degree of manipulation that can be heard in this House. You speak of a plan, Your Honor, but the fact that the only measure that exposes in your initiative was to supplement Risk to families with minors in charge or with greater disabilities. Risk -- Mrs. Rodil knows well too -- it already includes these specific supplements for families with minors or older with disabilities in charge, as requested by the Socialist Party of Galicia. Some plugins that we intend to improve, by the way, by taking advantage of the Risga resources, which should be released with the start of the minimum vital income. Mrs Ortega told us about the wonders of the vital minimum income, but she forgot to comment that 80% of the risks remain in force, against all forecasts, because the fact is that the minimum vital income in Galicia is an absolute failure, which has not yet covered 25 % of the beneficiaries you have publicly announced on income a few months ago. Less than 25%, Mrs Ortega, but that forgot to count. As you forgot to mention that risk compatibility has not yet been made with the minimum vital income because in all these months you have not been able to establish the regulations that regulate that minimum vital income, and have been modified up to eight times, on eight! Convinced, however, that it is possible to improve these aids, we, recently, have promoted an agreement in the House requesting the reinforcement of these plugins and the improvement in the management of the minimum vital income. By the way, the initiative we negotiated between the People's Party and the BNG, and the only group that did not support it, was the Socialist Party of Galicia. It was the initiative of a four-point agreement that called for the action of the Union and the Government of Spain, which included the proposal that you make to us today. I have it here: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand the Government of Spain 1. Ensuring the perception of dependent child benefit for those families who do not benefit from the minimum living income. 2. To bet on the reinforcement of the dependent child allowance to homes with children younger than or older affected by a disability equal to or greater than 65 %. 3. To speed up the processing of applications submitted to the vital minimum income and -- by the way -- request the design of the transvasion coordinated with the Greek Government that offers guarantees to the beneficiaries of the minimum autonomous incomes -- to avoid, by the way, those problems that you have come to report to us here --. 4. Call for Galicia's vital minimum income management transfer." Why didn't you support this agreement, Your Honor? It's hard to understand. Maybe because he demanded the Government the same thing that you ask the Board today, with a difference: that the Board is already doing so and the Government, no. But you like it, they like it to claim to their Government what they demand from others. Your Honor, instead of reflecting on the contradiction of requesting in plenary a measure that you have not supported in committee, you prefer to incur a new contradiction. And he comes here today to request correction of statements that have never been made. The Union, as it cannot be otherwise, scrupulously respects legality, in every one of its actions in support of minors. Because you have to contextualize the statements, and those you take out of the context were produced just after you were talking about the sale, the purchase-for-sale of a minor in the Coruña. As you haven't read the statements, or at least not in the part that I think makes it quite clear -- yes, yes, yes, you heard, you didn't listen well, because I don't think you heard this part --. I quote literally: "Our duty is to be on the side of all families who are suffering from it, to equip them with all the resources they need in order to get their children out of the way, that all parents can stay with their children, which is what we want, but we have to do an intense job with all social entities, who know very well the cases, who move us every day those cases of families who have needs, and our duty is to be with them." I think it leaves little room for imagination, honestly, but it's easier to manipulate. Look, I believe that this commitment of the Greek Government to families in difficulty, which is extensible, by the way, to all people living at risk of poverty, has allowed Galicia to be of the few autonomous communities that throughout the crisis have reduced its poverty rates. It's not like I say it, is that the president of EAPN Galicia said it here, who located -- you know -- "Galice like one of the eight autonomous communities that managed to reduce the poverty rate since the start of the crisis in 2008, and that we're still under the national average, and far away from other autonomous communities." As I told you, you're used to handling statements, and I understand. In fact, these statements by Mrs Ingerto, you, in a committee in this Parliament, transformed them -- or interpreted them -- in the following: Mrs Ingerto considered the data very worrying, because we continued below the national average. We are worse than the national average than the poverty levels. Your Honor, you are able to turn a compliment that lays Galicia under the average into poverty into an attack on the Galician Union saying that you are the one that aspires to be the one that we put at national level and manufacture poorer. It's certainly a surprising thing. And, of course!, after hearing this, I am not surprised that he comes here today also to ensure that the advisor said exactly the opposite of what actually occurred in that interview. It seems to me that certain subjects, in which I agree with you, must be treated with scrupulously loyalty and, above all, topics of a sensitivity as marked as caring for children in dependency, we should play with minimal cleaning rules -- no, if you see it, you see it, indeed! --. I repeat, all parents can stay with their children, which is what we want. Is there any doubt? But do you have any doubts about compliance with the lawfulness of the German Government? Because I invite them to go to the courts if they know one case, one case, what happened to those illegalities that are reported here today. I'd like you to say publicly if you have any knowledge. Because on the contrary, Your Honor, it is to come here to make a speech as easy as dangerous, and to me it seems that when we're talking about minors we should be a little more prudent. And I ask you to stop manipulating
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u164	...and I ask you to share the diagnosis, which I think is realistic, which is made from this group, which is that Galicia, in the matter of poverty, is better than the average of the autonomous Spanish communities, but that, however, we must all try to improve the situation, because any average will be unacceptable while one family is in a situation of difficulty in Galicia. We're going to work loyally to reverse this situation. I would like to count on the support of the opposition groups for what I think is a noble objective. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u166	Thank you, President. Your Honor, please remove Vox's spirit from the body, because every day it's more radical in the statements dealing with such a sensitive subject as we bring to this House today. [[Applause]] He talks about the statements of the advisor, and I understand that the only thing that's right is you, and the rest, including the associations themselves, the BNG party, the Socialist Party, are all confused. But the truth is that easy and dangerous speech, as you said, is counsellor's statements, which are as sensitive as it is to associate the withdrawal of custody of a child to a mother or father for lack of resources, when it is the self-government itself that has exclusive competence in the field of social services, and that has to supplement that lack of resources so that these deficiencies do not happen. [[Applause]] He spoke of Galicia's EAPN as well, but he forgot to say that it was the first one that urged the Government of Greece to carry out complementarity with other incomes, such as the minimum vital income, by Risga, which is the very income of Galicia to which -- if you don't know the Act of inclusion, we already say -- which prevents, which gives the veto to other incomes of inclusions. That's why it's not allowed in this country, in Galicia, the very complementarity of both incomes and that's why -- you know it perfectly -- don't manipulate, don't manipulate. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in order to combat poverty, there is no need to invent magic solutions, the solutions come by hand to boost employment, to invest in social housing -- which is not done from the Government of the People's Party in Galicia -- to complement the incomes of insertion, but for that, sensitivity is needed, political will is necessary and necessary, like not! resources. And there are, and many, resources, because, in addition, Galicia has come from Europe and from the state, from the copper fund, 735 million: 235 million for aid to self-government and businesses, 17 million for extraordinary assistance, plus 17 million from the social and extraordinary fund, nearly 2 million for food scholarships, 7,800,000 for programmes to care for children's poor families, 45 million for dependency, 10,700,000 for facilitating conciliation, nearly 2 million for responding to the difficulties of vocational training students in this crisis; more than 61 million in vocational training for employment, 167 million for boosting employment in youth, 169 million for active employment policies, among many other transfers. [[Applause]] It can't be that Galicia comes with these funds and we have to observe how Galicia leads to the drop in unemployment in Spain. We cannot observe how, once these funds have arrived, we must once again see how the Union has left without spending 2 out of 3 euros of funds for access to housing last year [[Applause]] Galicia is queued in Spain for social services per inhabitant. This is a recent news item. Galicia is lined up in Spain for social services for every resident. We follow: after so many funds, Junta calls on people with no resources to return several months of the Risga, to keep it, by decision of the Government of the People's Party of Galicia, incompatible with the minimum vital income. But we're playing! [[Applause]] Unbelievable! But don't you realize from the German Government that the pandemic happened around here too? Aren't you aware that it's time to invest all the resources available to shield the most vulnerable people in Galicia? Don't you realize that in order to shield the rights of minors at such a critical time, it's necessary to invest significantly more than was expected? The pandemic's over here, don't let them rule like nothing's happened! Galicia will not move forward until we make an integral plan against poverty in children and youth, a plan to ensure that in this crisis every home with minors in charge has the minimum resources based on the threshold of relative poverty in our country, with a previous study of the impact of the pandemic. To that end, it is necessary for the German Government to amend the Act of Inclusion, so that Risga will leave the veto behind other incomes of insertion that may complement, as in the case of the minimum vital income, lords of the People's Party, which is indeed compatible. Two: develop a powerful Welsh strategy to ensure access and maintenance of housing to vulnerable people, especially those with minors in charge, lords of the People's Party. It's an obligation we have. Third: implement a work integration plan in full coordination with local social services, increasing autonomic resources for this. It is necessary to analyse the labour market, as they have already commented on in previous interventions, and how the crisis is affecting sectors in Galicia. The Spanish Association of Pediatrics is alerting an increase in consultations for psychological disorders in minors, derived from the restrictions of the pandemic, lordships, and sharpened in those homes that saw their income reduced. Now more than ever, we have to pay attention to children, children and adolescents, which society often tends to invisibility, and it's not fair. We do not want children to be invisible victims of the pandemic, to put political will and immediate solutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-25-DSPG037.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. At the end of the debate on this initiative, we suspended the meeting until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
