ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the seventh item on the agenda, which is the questions for the oral answer of the president of the board. Question by D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on strategic policies for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u2	We started with Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's question. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the lack of strategy has been a constant over its twelve years in front of the Government of Galicia, twelve years without a model, without a formula for measures, objectives, capacities to address the challenges of the future. And after all his grandloquent speech pointing out how good everything goes in Galicia, the truth is that we've improved a lot in many respects, but it's also true that we've kept our position compared to other regions about which we were lagging behind in so many indices as we were twelve, twenty or forty years ago. Galicia continues in line with indicators of productivity, competitiveness or innovation compared to other regions in Spain and other regions in Europe. And that's why we need to talk about the challenges of Galicia poscovid, how we want to face the future of Galicia and how we want to do it. And for that, first of all, you have to have the ability to give assurance to the Greeks and to the Greeks. I want to start by asking you, Mr. President, that you recognize that last year you were wrong, that, when you said in front of all the Greeks and Greeks that we weren't going to have AVE in the year 2021, you made a mistake. It was his speech on December 16th last year, exactly 12 months ago. The president of the board said, in reference to the calendar of the Greek AVE: "It's best not to fool, we're not going to have it in 2021." This approach to strategy is an error, a formula to deny what is evidenced and what is evidenced by the facts. And we ask him to, in order to continue to be successful in the future, you change that negationism of what progresses and what is positive for the Greeks and the Greeks. But I wanted to talk to you about four fundamental aspects of strategy: First of all, in terms of well-being, we want to know, Mr President, how you pose the model of Galicia's welfare for the future. In the middle of the sixth wave of the vault, it can't be that your only proposal for the Conference of Presidents is to impose the mask on the outside, which, if clinical reports recommend it, you will have our backs, but we know that in Galicia most of the citizenship circulates through the streets with masks and with all protection, and that this will not be the key to the great solution. I think it is more important, Mr Feijóo, that you correct your policies today, that you re-enter the teaching system in Galicia the 868 professors you have fired and the more than 500 health professionals who are not hired; because strengthening public health, public education, the welfare system, is the best formula for dealing with the pandemic rather than just making ads and putting themselves behind a mask in the exteriors that he always announces. But it's just that, in addition, with regard to equality, Mr. Feijóo, of course we're concerned about the issues, because, by giving him a headline today, "the pandemic breaks three years of the fall of inequality in Galicia, there's a greater social gap and Gini's index grows again." [[Applause]] What will you do in welfare policy? I would also like to ask you, Mr. Feijóo, another aspect that is of utmost relevance to us and I believe that for so many Greeks and Greeks, which makes reference to industry and R & D+i. Behind your budgets, of your strategic model for Galicia, what weight do you want to give to industry, how do you deal with industrial crises in Galicia, the Navy, Ferrolterra, in the relocation of Ence? You're the president of the board, who has competence in industrial matters. And I also ask you how you propose a new production model for Galicia poscovid, because today the newspapers also collect how the Economic Forum warns of innovation deficiencies that will make the escape of talent worse. Please note that in the field of ICT, innovation, where there is the greatest capacity for vanguard progress, we have problems and we are lagging behind.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u5	And besides, I mean also, Mr. Feijóo, who, when you talk about the demographic impulse in Galicia, you passed a law of demographic impulse. Do you recognize that that law is insufficient, that it has no effect beyond you to congratulate Christmas on congratulations for birth, which is so important to Galicia? To respond to the problems of the demographic impulse, the law of the PP is not enough, his Christmas congratulations are not enough. We have to bet on industry, rural environment, innovation and well-being.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u7	And for that it takes a new strategic orientation from Galicia, for which you have the responsibility, but of course, it also has, in order to be able to help, the constructive will of all the Greeks and Greeks that we want Galicia to go better and that this legislation leaves us a Galicia with greater equality, with greater strength and, ultimately, with correctness for all and for all, which is what citizens ask us to do. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u8	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try, Mr. Knight, to answer you within the limits of time, to most of the questions, to this salad of questions that you have just referred to. Your Honor, about a year ago, you asked me about the evaluation of the first hundred days. I told him then that we had two fundamental objectives: firstly, to address the effects of the pandemic and, secondly, to make all economic policies to start the recovery of the Greek economy. Today, a year later, I can tell you that we are still in the middle of the pandemic. I'm surprised you don't know that Galicia is the autonomous community with more vaccines from all over Spain. And I'm surprised that's what you're missing. I'm surprised you forget that Galicia is the first double-dose autonomous community, and also the first autonomous community to vaccinate children between 11 and 5 years of age. I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you don't say that. [[Applause]] I'm surprised, in any case, Your Honor, that you don't even know that Galicia is the only autonomous community that makes strategic plans every five years. I'm surprised you don't know we made the first strategic plan for the years 2010 to 2014. I'm surprised you don't even know we made the 2015-2021 Strategic Plan. And it's surprising that you don't even know that we're going to present this month -- that is, in a few days -- the progress of the Strategic Plan 2022-2030. I am therefore surprised to hear that this autonomous community has no strategy, when it is the only autonomous community that presents strategic plans every four or five years. I'm surprised. In any case, Your Honor, you probably don't know them. That, of course, surprises me less. But, Your Honor, if we are the only autonomous community that makes strategic plans, that we bring together more than 300 experts in this plan that we are developing, that we start before the pandemic to build it, that we will approve it this month and that will be referred to the House in the next session, it is surprising that you come here saying there is no strategic plan. How come there's no strategic plan, Your Honor? There's a strategic plan until 2030, so far beyond the scope of this legislation. But if you want to talk about sectoral strategic plans, for I am surprised that you don't know that we approved the Forest Plan by the year 2040; I am surprised that you don't know the Galician Tourism Strategy — by the year 2024—; I am also surprised that you don't know that we approved the Galician Digital Strategy — by the year 2030—; I am surprised that you don't know anything about the Galician Strategy of artificial intelligence — approved by the year 2030—; I am surprised, Your Honor, that you don't know about the Strategy of Greek Culture and that you haven't even paid attention to the proposal that this cultural adviser just made a few days ago with the Culture City Strategy until the year 2027. I'm surprised you don't know anything about the strategy in institutional architecture, both in education and in social services. And I'm surprised you didn't pay attention to the social policy advisor's appearance in the area of senior residences. I'm surprised you don't even know what health centers we're going to do during this legislation. I'm surprised, Mr. Knight, that you come here to talk about a Galician who seems to be simply part of your idea. Look, Your Honor, come here to presume the execution of the AVE in time by a member of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party will be a joke, Your Honor. You guys in the year 2020, in elections, cheated people constantly and continued during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u11	They said AVE would arrive in Galicia in 2020, 2020!, you and the government delegate. The government delegate is already dead and you don't know how he is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that from AVE lies, please don't take this matter out in the Chamber. [[Strong murmurers.]] Look, Your Honor, we have a high-speed train to Ourense — end of the appointment. So the rest of the cities don't have it, because we don't have AVE trains to the rest of the cities. And coming to suck here at the fact, you'll understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u13	Tell the people of the Coruña, the people of Vigo, the people of Pontevedra, the people of Santiago, the people of Lugo and the people of Ferrol the high-speed train of the Socialist Party. A little respect, Mr. Knight!, simply for the truth. Look, in education, he says I don't know how many teachers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u14	Finish, finish, please, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u15	Today there are 2,000 teachers more than in 2019. And we have the school dropout rate half as long as you rule.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u16	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u17	So, Your Honor, if there's anything in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u18	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u19	...is predictability, planning and strategy. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u20	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u21	Mr. President, I feel that the hemerothec denies it once more. You said last year's December 16th that it was better not to cheat, that we wouldn't have AVE in the year 2021. And I never said, Mr. Feijóo, that the AVE would never arrive in 2020. I dare you to show my statements in that way. I understand that the People's Party is unnerved and concerned after the Minister Pastor — his colleague — has put AVE's investments in a drawer for so long. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He had to arrive a government of progress to put the AVE back in Galicia in the challenge of arriving. [[Strong murmurers.]] And from there I agree with you that we have the challenge also to make the connectivity of the set of cities in Galicia with high speed through plans that are already running and also through new commitments that do not involve any kind of backwardness; because we want the whole cities to be connected with high speed and, just as you reach Ourense in two hours and a quarter, we have to make all investments to get the high speed to be connected with Lugo, arrive at Vigo and so on to the whole of the cities in Greece. [[Applause]] But I wanted to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that, in any case, beyond your usual response salads, in which you speak of everything less than you are asked, that you have many plans for everything, that you are a great prestigious, that opens your briefcase and draws strategic plan for artificial intelligence, for fishing, for social policy, for intelligence, for education, for everything; wet papers that are not for nothing because they lack the model of strategy and how to locate Galicia of the year 2021. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you again, Mr. Feijóo, that you stop comparing the numbers of the year 2021 with the year 2019. [[Applause]] Between the two years there is 2020, or do you not have the ability to count every year? Why don't you recognize that there are fewer teachers in the education system today than last year? Why don't you admit that you have fewer health professionals than last year? And why don't you recognize that, in order to face the sixth wave and the challenges that come from the vault ahead, it's best to put the investment capacity of the Union to the service of the welfare state, the welfare system, and hire that maximum of health professionals and teachers to strengthen the system? We want to ask you, and we want to ask you to revive that Galicia that needs a strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u23	...in the field of industry, R & D+i, in the area of well-being and also in the field of rural environment and demographic impulse. Because simply with the announcements of PP's strategic plans, the Welsh and the Welsh in the day-to-day don't solve their problems. Inequality grows. More than 300 thousand young Greeks leave this country, and from there we must take action, Mr Feijóo. Part of this legislation is ahead...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u25	...which will be that of the recovery, that of Galicia poscovit. And we ask him, in addition to announcing many plans and much propaganda, to reorient Galician strategy and, of course, to allow all of us to contribute to making a better Galicia. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u26	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close this question. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u27	Mr. Knight, first he says we have no strategic plans. When we believe we've been making strategic plans since 2010 -- and we already have Galicia's third strategic plan -- and when we believe we have a strategy for every important issue, you say it's wet paper. It's a lack of respect for the experts who make up the strategic plan, the 300 professional experts who are working on the Strategic Plan 2022-2030. It's a lack of respect for all the people who worked in artificial intelligence, university professors, technologists, Galician technology companies — 22,000 jobs. Do you care about anyone in Galicia? Do you think Galicia is a place where there's no intelligence to make plans? Can you manage a country without a prior schedule? Are the pre-planning papers wet? And what are yours, Your Honor? To come here to assume that the AVE reaches Ourense nine days before the end of the year 2021 is, without a doubt, an entire event — as Leire Pajín would say — planetary. What's clear, Your Honor, is we don't have high-speed trains in 2021. AVE is via, chained and rolling stock. We don't have trains. And the question I asked the minister is, when are we going to have the trains? The answer is, we don't know yet. Do you really come up with this right now? Look, with all due respect, you should be a little more cautious about the high-speed train and sucking on the Socialist Party. All you did was perform the works that were bidden and adjudicated, and point. That's what they did. What we need to know is whether they're paid, because with the public debt you issued in 2019, in 2020 and in 2021 we're on the public debt record. All AVE matches of the last two years are likely to be in public debt. So, Mr. Knight, when you come here to say that we have fewer teachers and I don't know that, when we have 2,000 teachers more than before the pandemic, I suppose it'll be a joke. When you come here to say that we have less health care than ever, and we have 5,700 people working more on health care than in recent years, when we are the first autonomous community in vaccine dispensation across Spain and one of the European regions with more vaccinated people, it's a lack of respect for all the nursing and all the staff who are vaccinating unlimitedly in all areas of health. You should at least say, I'm proud of the Galego Health Service, I'm proud of your plans for vaccination, I'm proud of your planning for testing, I'm proud to be in one of the autonomous communities with the least occupation of bed on the floor and in ICU, and I'm proud, above all, because Galicia is the autonomous community with the mortality rate in the lowest epidemic across the peninsula. When you say all this, Mr. Knight, we could work something together. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, Mr. Caballero — in a spirit of controversy — it is not serious that you come here to talk about planning when you are one of the great defenders of the central government. But do you guys have any economic planning?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u29	Is there any specific economic data from the Government of Spain in recent years? We are the country with the greatest destruction of wealth in the world after Argentina, and we are the country with the least increase in wealth throughout the European Union. Your Honor, are you really defending this planning? Do you think we should copy the socialist government's planning? You think the socialist government has a plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u31	...to convene the presidents at twenty-four hours of Good Night to talk about what we have to do at Good Night? Mr. Knight, you should assume a little more of Galicia and forget about your party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u32	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the measures of the Government of Greece to give the country future to the young people of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u33	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u34	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feisé. The youth of this country has, under its government, to choose between precariousness, unemployment or emigration. Since he arrived in the Union, 218,000 people have disappeared between 16 and 34 years of age. This is a real demographic breakdown. Many of these people took their bags. And I want to ask you how you feel about presiding over a government that tells young people and girls that have to comply with fewer opportunities than the generation of their parents and mothers. Do you sleep well knowing that your government is responsible for a gigantic migration wave of youth? Let's review the data. The youth unemployment rate is 21.8%, according to the last EPA. Do you know what rate Germany has? 5.8%. Social Security membership among children under 29 has dropped by 37%. Only 38% of the youth have a job. And 64.7% has a temporary contract and a salary of up to 64% lower than Galicia's average. And since 2009 347,825 Welsh and Germans — or 38% were under 29 years of age — emigrated. Mr. Feijóo, allow me to tell you to preside over a separatist government. He is separatist because he separates children and daughters from parents and mothers, because he separates grandchildren and grandchildren from his grandparents and because he separates boys and girls from his friends and friends. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u36	I don't know if Members and Members of the People's Party are laughing at emigration. I think grandfathers who have met their grandchildren and grandchildren through a screen don't laugh at them. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, president of a separatist government. [[Applause and murmuring.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u37	Quiet, please! Quiet, please! Go ahead. Go ahead, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we are getting less and older with a population; among other reasons, because thousands of Greeks and Greeks develop their projects outside, form families outside and have children and daughters outside. And they're very good, Mr. Feijóo, those waves at birth. But do you know what the problem is? That fewer and fewer children are born in Galicia. Ever since you ruled, birth has fallen year after year. See, in 2009, 22,537 children were born. Do you know what the 2020 figure was? Foron 15.212. It's a brutal fall. And today Galicia has the worst birth figures in the last sixty years. You know, among other reasons, why? Because we have two hundred thousand boys and girls who had to emigrate in the face of lack of opportunity, and their sons and daughters couldn't choose Galicia because they were born in Berlin, London, Madrid or Barcelona. [[Applause]] Precautionary, unemployment and emigration are a problem for youth, but they're also a real country problem, because without the vitality of the new generations Galicia will have no future. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you what the measures of your government are so that the youth of this country should not continue to choose between unemployment, precariousness or emigration. And by the way, it's a youth who is suffering as little as the consequences of the pandemic crisis. Today, in the middle of the sixth wave, I hope that this meeting of presidents will serve something more than to shift responsibility to citizenship and, in your case, Mr Feijóo, to strengthen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u40	...that primary care and trackers and trackers, because governments have to be up to it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u42	You will understand, Mrs. Pontón, that this part of the hemicycle can only greet with a smile your approach. It is the first time — I believe — in forty years that the BNG tells the Galician People's Party that it is a separatist party. You will understand that this also makes the whole Socialist Party smile. [[Laughter]] But you, as you are already in history as the leader of the BNG who is willing to deny what they are and ascribe what you are to others, will understand that at least we have a smile of good Christmas and happy year 2022, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Look, with all due respect, coming here with false data is the worst thing young people can do. I'm here to talk about how many young people leave Galicia when we rule. And it turns out that since we arrived in the Government, 72,000 more people have arrived in Galicia since 2009. From 2009 to 2020, including the year of the pandemic, 71,975 more arrived. It's not a national lottery prize, it's the number of people who came to Galicia above those who came out, 71.975. And here comes the 16-34-year-old youth, and it turns out that, despite the pandemic and all the circumstances, from 2009 to 2020 they entered Galicia 16,031 more young people and girls than they left. Mrs. Pontón, this data dissuades you from asking serious questions to a government that wants to take your questions seriously. Mrs. Pontón, in June she asked me about the future of the Galician youth. I told him about this matter, but, well, now touch it again, as is natural. The news in the last few months is not bad. We improve education, with a free, open, non-idealized education system. Yes, of course, I understand that pleases you. [[Laughter and murmuring.]] There are more opportunities for access to employment and with more vital projects than I've had in recent years as a youth. [[Murmurs.]] If we have 50 percent more people working on FP, and employability is 85%; if we are the autonomous community with the cheapest university fees across Spain and we sign with universities their funding plan up to 2026; if we have the lowest school dropout in the entire country's history — 25% to 12% — if we have 100,000 multilingual students in public education; if we increase in more than 450 million euros the investment in education, and 73% of the centers are reformed or new, and if we have 40% of the student with digital book, because that's our unidelogized education. Your Honor, speaking of unemployment, in the last year youth unemployment has dropped to 8,700 people, 31.4%. But in 2009, when we arrived at the Government — when you ruled that happy Galicia — 51,000 boys were unemployed. Today there are 18,000 — 32,000 minus — And if you want to take membership, we have 7.3% more affiliates than in the last year. If you want to take the whole country — that is, Spain — and look at the percentage of unemployed within the unemployment rate of each autonomous community, Galicia is the autonomous community with less youth unemployment from all over Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u44	...or 12.3% —the average of Spain is 16% —. How much data do you need, Your Honor, to remove that mantra from Galicia that young people leave, that from Galicia everyone emigrates, when it turns out that in Galicia there is a positive flow of both the total population and the young people from 16 to 34 when we have one of the best education systems — especially in the FP — when we have the most accessible universities, Your Honor, and when we have youth programs from the point of view of employment? We just approved a 52 million euros last week.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u46	We're going to keep working because we're the autonomous community with less youth unemployment from all over Spain. And that's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you don't have a little more appreciation for the young Greek. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u47	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u48	Mr. Feijóo, of course, it is disgusting for his government to come here to boast of the data of emigration, a bowl for the whole country and especially for the young men and girls who had to pick up their bags. But we already know that his government when we talk about emigration laughs at him. [[Applause]] That's the respect you have for the people who are not being given opportunities here. That is how you have to exercise in this Parliament. And yes, of course I am a separatist government, because in the last two hundred thousand young men and women in this country have separated, and that is the separatism that concerns the Greeks and the Greeks. And it is sad, of course, Mr. Feijóo, that you come here to repeat exactly the same intervention six months ago. [[Applause]] Of course we care about youth! How we're not going to worry about youth when it's the future of this country and we need everyone and every one of these boys and girls to be able to set up a Galician with more opportunities! And, of course, there are many kinds of negationism. There's not only the negationism of vaccines. There is their negationism of emigration, which is a scourge for this country. [[Applause]] It is also sad, Mr Feijóo, that he comes here again without any kind of proposal or alternative, only with his negationism about emigration. And you know in the BNG Group that Mr. Feijóo also thinks I can't ask you any more questions. This is their conception of democracy, it gives meats of good and bad Galicians and also of what spokespersons we can ask or not ask. It is, of course, a new modality that we have not seen in Parliament these years. [[Applause]] And, look, I suppose the Galician Economic Forum is also in BNG's lie when it reports that it alerts about the emigration of young and talented people is a serious problem for our country. I suppose the Galician Economic Forum is also on that list that points to Mr Feijóo from all of us who invented the problem of emigration. [[Applause]] And here, of course, we always see how the right has a very curious concept of freedom. There is freedom to take canes and then there is freedom to choose whether a Welshman or a Galician wants to work in Berlin, London or Madrid but not have opportunities on this land, as the Statute of Self-Government says we have in force. [[Applause]] Look, it's sad, Mr. Feijóo, that we see the President of this Government come here with zero proposals for this country's youth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u50	And we tell him to get to work for young people, because we can't see how they have to conform to milleurs' wages — when they're lucky — or have to go to work outside. And there's an opportunity right now, which is the Next Generation fund. It uses them to create Innogal, to retain and capture talent, to put in place a strategy that creates industrial jobs and slows down relocations, to make a real bet for knowledge, to put in place a youth employment plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u52	Do something else to think that ruling are headlines every day while new people emigrate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question by Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u54	Mrs. Pontón, you can ask me every question you want, of course. The only ones we couldn't ask were us when we were in the opposition. But you even asked President Touriño's government. [[Murmurs.]] Imagine, two laudatory questions to the president, and the opposition asking him a question of control. Those four years are, Your Honor, of movement. But finally, since you want to keep falsifying reality, what do you think I'm telling you that during the Bipartite they left Galicia 50,000 guys? I have the data here. In 2005, 11,800; in 2006, 13,000; in 2007, 13,900; in 2008, 13,200. How about I tell you this, Your Honor? This is the reality of the facts. So a little bit of respect for the truth, because I believe that a parliamentarian must tell the truth — and much more in this House —. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But a leader of a party, like you, shouldn't tell lies. You know, Your Honor, that we can discuss what you want, but the lie can't be part of the control sessions. I understand that BNG doesn't care about lies and truth. [[Laughter]] This is one of the problems of today's policy. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Applause]] But, look, Your Honor, entering the electoral program at BNG, to learn something, because we have ideology, ideology and ideology, a lot of ideology and no idea. Let me read the electoral programme of the BNG: in the field of youth, expel the Cence from the River of Pontevedra — the first proposal —; secondly, insubmission to LOMCE; thirdly, denounce the Spanishization of the educational system. Is there any more ideologicalized youth program than BNG? Do you really think that we're going to redeem the Galician youth with this? What do you want? Everyone join the BNG to redeem the Galician youth? Don't you think that young Galician people are free to vote what they want, to be affiliated to what they want, and to have criteria, Your Honor, criteria? And we have to bet on education without a doubt. And that's why we're going to keep working on education and employment, jobs and education, opportunities. In the next few weeks, we've activated the virtual youth guidance and counselling office for training, employment and housing. Do you know that we've taken more than 15,000 housing aids to the young people of Greece in recent years? We've got 15,000. We're going to create an informal education platform that centralizes all courses, all workshops and all youth congresses. And we'll be back, Your Honor, this year 2022 to make a new strategic plan for youth -- up to 2027 -- because we're bringing youth planning in recent years. A non-idealized public education is the first commitment, with more technology, with more languages, more accessible, with the most accessible university rates in Spain, with the largest increase in vocational training squares in Spain and with more employment opportunity — and that is why we are the autonomous community with the lowest rate of youth unemployment in all Spain and so we will continue to work with innovative measures in youth participation with these youth plans. Look, I don't come here to patrimonialize the defense of the interests of youth, so that's what you are. I come here to tell you that my task as president is not to impose anything on the young people of the country, nor nationalistic doctrines or utopias or revealed truths.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u56	I come here, Your Honor, saying that my duty to youth is to facilitate opportunities. And opportunities are found in excellent education, in more work opportunities and in all support to undertake, to have a home and to form a family. And that's what I'm here to say, Your Honor. Between that mischievous Galicia we discovered a few days ago in Ourense of the Socialist Party that you support and the nostalgias of models that divide, separate and impoverish, Your Honor, I remain with a free Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u58	...with an open Galicia, with a young man who thinks of himself and with a youth we don't have to tell him what to do, but give him the opportunity to do what he deems appropriate. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, I appreciate you advertising the Galician People's Party video. Yes, yes, he did! [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I was congratulated on the video. No, no, both the Socialist Party and the BNG. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I invite them to see him again. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u59	Thank you. We continue with the fifth item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Socialist, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Ms. Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the improvement of the quality of the autonomous administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u60	There is a self-amendment and also an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u61	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I am still to hear Mr Feijóo say that lies cannot be part of this Parliament's control sessions. I have to say that the problem of improving the functioning of our public administrations is an important problem in our country, which comes from far away, of which we hardly ever talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u63	Wait a minute, Mr. Aranguena. Wait till there's a little more quiet in the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u64	It doesn't take away time, does it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u65	No, he hasn't started yet. Look, he hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u66	Perfect. Well, I'll start again. He said that the problem of improving the functioning of our public administrations is an important problem in our country that has already come from far away and that is not talked about almost ever; among other things, because it is a particularly complex problem that cannot be reduced to a mere headline. I am talking at this point in general, not specifically about Galicia, but about the public administration in our country and at different administrative levels. But, as we are in the Galician Parliament — and, contrary to what the PP thinks, here this Parliament does not have the function of controlling the central government but the Union — we have today come to talk about the autonomous administration of Galicia and to make proposals for improvement and modernization of it, which articulate around eight concrete axes to improve our administration when the great pandemic shows us every day our individual and collective fragility and the need for a more resilient and capable administration to respond to this crisis and future crises, which will undoubtedly come. It seems to us, moreover, a very appropriate moment to make this proposal, because we celebrate with pump and alharaca the forty years of autonomy but we never talk about how its main instrument works, which is the Italian public sector — i.e., the public administration, the autonomous administration and the multiple entities that depend on it — works. Of course I've already discounted that anyone speaking on behalf of the PP is going to say in his reply that the Welsh administration is wonderful, pointed, vanguard, leader in a million things; a falsehood or set of falsehoods that offend the intelligence of citizenship, that, when it relates to that administration, it looks too often angry in an excessively bureaucratic world, sometimes of Kafkian dyes and decimononics of duplicities and organisms that too often are not very clear why and how they do what they do but that too often is clear that they could do better and at a lower cost and with less loss of time and patience for the citizen. In this sense, according to the prestigious European Quality Index of Government, prepared by the Institute of Government Quality of the University of Gothenburg — which is the only index on the quality of government published at European level and which is also funded by the European Commission — Galicia is the tenth community among the 17th State in terms of government quality, the 10th in 17th, well below the state average. This implies an urgent need to improve an administration which too often interferes rather than dynamize — especially considering that our country, which is Spain, is also far away from other countries in administrative capacity, after seven years in which the governments of Mariano Rajoy have had the unfortunate opportunity to give it a change, especially when they had the absolute majority, which obviously makes it easier to make any kind of reform. It is the fourth edition of this European index. And, in order to have a general view, it must be said that in the first — in 2010 — Galicia was in the second position in Spain. But in the next three, in the next three editions, coincident precisely with Feijóo's mandates, we fell to the last positions. It is not an infallible or perfect index, but it is the only one on this European subject. And it is endorsed by the European Union; it must therefore be considered and taken into account what it says. And if we take as reference the only time that the World Bank measures the ease of doing business in the different autonomous communities — which was in 2015 — do you know what position Galicia held in that ranking — I insist — of the World Bank? For Galicia occupied the last position, the long distance from the rest, under seventeen autonomous communities and also Ceuta and Melilla. This business facility thing has a lot to do with the quality of our administration, and we all know it hasn't improved in Galicia since that World Bank ranking was made. The quality of administration not only determines the ease of doing business and therefore to capture investment, but — which is even more important — the basic services that citizens receive, such as health, education, social policies and so many other things important to our citizenship. And the quality of administration also determines that good or bad decisions are made at the political level. Because a good administration can act as a counterweight against arbitrary or misguided political decisions. In short, by improving administration, we play very, very much. Because administration is at the end of the day and with enormous difference the organization that moves the most resources in our country and in any civilized country. Any improvement in administration has an expansive effect on society as a whole. Economists debate the multiplier of public spending, if a euro of public spending becomes more than one euro in its final impact on the economy. But there is no doubt that what if it has a clearly positive effect is any improvement in the efficiency of public spending, because every euro of public resources spent better benefits the whole society directly or indirectly — especially in a time when public resources are expected to be scarce, for multiple reasons, in the future. The Autonomic Administration is the main instrument of public policies in Galicia, whose proper functioning depends to a large extent on the present and the future of our country — their success or failure, in expression popularized by economists Acemoglu and Robinson in their famous best seller Why do countries fail? In this context, the Next Generation funds are a unique and unrepeatable opportunity that bets on the digitization and modernization of administrations. But hardly, very hardly, there can be digitization or modernization without a change of organizational culture in our public environment. And the need for a paradigm shift in the management of the public in Galicia is even expressly recognized by the explanatory statement of Law 9/2021, of administrative simplification and support for Galicia's economic reactivation, driven and approved by the People's Party in February this same year, which literally says that "it intends to establish a new administrative culture aimed at simplifying and rationalizing the procedures". I repeat: to introduce a new administrative culture aimed at simplifying and rationalizing the procedures. That's what you say to yourself in your law. By the way, it is not possible to establish a new administrative culture, of course, with a law of 77 articles, in addition to that law not even referring to the generality of administrative proceedings but only to certain procedures related to business initiatives which are a minimum part of the total. But the fact is that you expressly recognize, in the legislation that they promote and approve in this House, the need for a new organizational culture of the Administration in Galicia, which agrees with the bad results, with the very bad results, which Galicia obtains in the study of the University of Gothenburg, but above all with the perception of citizenship and the obvious reality of our autonomous administration. And the mechanisms of good government work as counterweights that guarantee the protection of citizenship from arbitrary hypothetics of the public power and misuse of public wealth. Procedures, incompatibilities, transparency, evaluation of public policies and so forth, are basic mechanisms for controlling and limiting State power, in this case the power of the Self-Government Administration. Internal controls of efficiency and efficiency, management control of administration and the existence of independent institutions that control administrative action are essential elements to be able to say that a democracy is such and not a purely formal democracy without substance and content. That's why we propose a plan to modernise and improve the public administration with eight axes that I synthesize. By the way, I anticipate that we will accept the voting by points if you have the slightest intention of improving the administration, because among these eight ones there are certain that there is someone who considers it appropriate. These are, as I say, synthetically: improving the evaluation of public policies — which today in Galicia is virtually non-existent — and, in that sense, incorporating public policy evaluation functions among the Board of Auditors, which today does not have; increasing the quality of services by improving e-government and coordination, and simplifying the provision of services; significantly improving transparency and increasing citizen participation; improving recruitment and management processes to ensure that public procurement takes place in accordance with the principles of legality, equality, merit and capacity — which, by all means, the last report of the Council of Auditors, published very recently, is not to put into doubt but openly claims that it is not so; to transpose the European directive 1937-2019-2019 on the protection of complainants from corruption within the scope of the competence of the Community, in particular by creating an internal and external channel of complaints, and by providing you with the year of assurances necessary for the protection of the complainants; to promote the creation of an old office, as well as possible, independent communities. I hope that at least a partial approval will be possible, because, as I say, we will accept the vote by points if they so request and wish to improve, reform and modernise our public administration. Nothing else and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u67	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Tabaret.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u68	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again bringing the collation into line with the study carried out by the Institute of Government Quality at the University of Gothenburg on behalf of the European Commission and with the collaboration of the European Union. And why is the importance of this study on the quality of the Government in charge and financing the European Commission? Because, at the European institution's trial, the quality of government institutions condition such important aspects as economic development, social cohesion and the quality of life of people. So we understand that an impartial study, because it is a university in Sweden — that thanks to AVE is much closer to Ourense, specifically Taboadela, than it may be from Lugo or what it may be from Vigo, even if we travel less than those of Ourense — should not be despised, even if the Government of the Board of Galicia leaves it in quite a bad place. [[Applause]] That is, as a government, the Galician Union, the Government of Galicia, is below the average of the state and below the average of the rest of Europe. It is true that the study is based on citizen perceptions, specifically in 129.00 interviews with European citizens — 10,400 to Spanish citizens — and it is also true that it only measures the perceptions of citizenship on the quality of public services — mainly of health and education — the impartiality and objectivity of the Government and its level of corruption. They are simply the perceptions of citizenship on these three aspects of what the government is, in this case, of a nation, or of the different nations of the European Union. And it is also true that, although it is about perceptions, in the first report of 2009-2010 Galicia, in fact, was above, far above, and at the first posts in the state average. In just four years, in the 2013 report, four years later, with the action of the government of Nuñez Feijóo, this situation was reversed and Galicia was already in line with transparency, impartiality and public services. And, of course, he was in the head of corruption. Of course, the question is: we set up a little reflection to see if these perceptions of European Union citizenship, those perceptions of Spanish citizenship, are absolutely irrational. So I'd just ask your lords for a little game of empathy. They put themselves in a situation outside, think we're talking about a different state, we're talking about a state where twelve of fourteen ministers are being prosecuted for different criminal causes, many of them serving deprivation of liberty, imprisonment, for acts committed in some case in the exercise of public duties. In that state, twelve of fourteen ministers met in a penitentiary. A government party in that state is prosecuted and sentenced firmly for having a box "b", for illegal financing—something which, of course, is not alien to the Greek reality, because one of the main responsible for this corrupt plot of box "b" was responsible for the organization of the People's Party in Galicia, and also the People's Party in Galicia is not alien to those criminal causes, when the whole electoral fund comes from the zero point of that corruption, that is, from Madrid, and therefore is not entirely unrelated to that kind of manipulation. Then, in that State allegedly affected by corruption, it turns out that they are using public resources, they are using the organization of the State, to go against the Administration of Justice, to go against transparency, to go against the possibility of pursuing those illegal criminal offences. So it's the majority party which is not only illegally funded, it's not only charging and paying in "b", but also avoiding the functioning of the Administration of Justice. And more recently, if I'm allowed to be a little localist — and defending my city — what does that party do in that corrupt public administration about misappropriation of funds? The misappropriation of funds has been in this case that a public responsible deducts for himself, for his own heritage, resources that are all of them. Well, having doubts about that person's honesty, having doubts that they may be producing such malicious activities, the Prosecutor's Office considers that this kind of misrepresentation of public caudas may be taking place, the People's Party, what it does is to encourage that person, from the position of the mayor, to continue with these corrupt practices. So at the level of corruption, that perception of that college at Gothenburg University doesn't seem to go too far. All of us here could have that perception that in Galicia and the State there is that -- let's say -- lasitude with corrupt compartments. There are also reasons to understand that we are not in an administration and in a state that is particularly impartial and objective. Public funds are mainly distributed in a nominal way, without competitive competition, and often through smaller contracts. The Board of Auditors — if we speak of the quality of public services — notes in its report that just a month ago, as in 2019, there were fewer staff and fewer staff spending than in 2009 — moreover, in terms of health personnel and staff members, where timeliness increases by 50% and 90% respectively, i.e. less staff and much more precarious. Well, then, I don't think we can take that separatist study with an animation against the People's Party or, at least, unreal. So, in a positive way, what measures are there or what do we have to do to avoid this? Well, a much more transparent, accessible and comprehensible administration. I mean, people understand the administrative procedures. We are not supporters, as the European Parliament said last week, at this time to simplify administrative procedures — which can facilitate corrupt practices — but rather that citizenship knows and can be addressed to the Administration. And we say 'transparent' because it is curious that at the same time as the President of Parliament spoke about the 40 years and the 'home of the word' in the Commission if they were denying answers to this parliamentary group. From the General Directorate of the Civil Service, in this case, we were being denied this answer. Therefore, transparency is to admit control on the part of those we are obliged and commissioned to do so. [[Applause]] Improving the functioning of public services means increasing the staff framework by reducing timeliness and not occupying temporary contracts which are structural needs. This is of course something that the Board of Auditors recommends, but the People's Party is still not doing. But still today in one of the most important municipalities in which we could rule in Ourense province, we could focus on a selective process where a structural square is going to deal with a temporary contract, and with a selective process that will be through competition and in which it will essentially be determining an interview. So let's make plans, make designs, but above all -- and most importantly -- we follow those plans and those designs. Because, of course, we believe that — as President Núñez Feijóo said — it would be disrespectful not to comply with these plans, but above all, it is a much greater lack of respect for people who devote time to drawing up those plans, not to give them any further fulfillment and spend them entirely on top. Similarly, when the Board of Auditors makes a plan, a catalogue of risks for areas of activity and risks in the field of corruption, it speaks of, of course, how to do in the field of personnel — to disregard everything else that this council was doing. And also in the field of public procurement — which, as you well know in the National Audience and the People's Party, is one of the most sensitive aspects of corrupt practices and payments in "b" — this Board of Auditors recommends that it be necessary to follow up the execution of the contract, something that the People's Party has denied in the past. I mean, you know perfectly well that you are paying with public resources benefits that are not being met — in this case in senior residences — and the People's Party gives you absolutely the same. It also advises the Board of Auditors to limit the contractual changes, and the People's Party, for example, in the construction in Vigo city supports such relevant contract changes as that in the execution phase it is 30% and in the phase of demolition 40%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u70	So we have to make plans, but above all, and more importantly, we have to carry out these plans. Because what happens if this administration doesn't work, if we allow these corrupt practices? It would — not in the words of the BNG but in the words of the European Parliament — adversely affect the development of States and nations, and would have a disproportionate impact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u72	...in the most vulnerable sectors. I'm done, Mr. President. In his hand — in the hands of the People's Party — he is choosing between a more transparent administration and fighting against corruption or continuing to tear down hard disks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u73	Thank you, Mr. Iago Tabares. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to highlight two things of this initiative: first of all, the lack of rigour; and, secondly, the lack of exemplaryness. First of all, I say that this initiative is not rigorous because it does not seem to be over-documented before making a non-law proposal. On the way in, it's obvious that he doesn't even read what the executive does every Thursday on the board. Because, in other words, I would not have formulated the self-amendment you are now presenting, given that everything you ask for is already approved or running and therefore already exists. Secondly, there's a lack of exemplaryness. We are surprised that the Socialist Group is taking an initiative to debate in full on transparency and fight against corruption and does not make a single mention of a case of such transcendence and topicality as is the condemnation by the lady's sister-in-law of the President of the Parliament of Pontevedra, Mrs. Silva. If they really want to work for transparency, fight against corruption, we were expecting an express reprobation of these facts by the President of the Pontevedra Parliament, and not prize it, as you have just done, raising it as an exemplary militant until the presidency of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Mr Formoso's new team has just shown its greatest splendor with this questionable decision, but perhaps Mr Arunguena is precisely trying to point out that the new leadership of the Greek socialists is — as it seems now to be leading the critical sector. Or maybe this whole debate is meant to be a smokescreen so that you stop talking about Mrs. Silva so much and talk about something more than the PP, in this ventilator strategy that all messes up. Yesterday we saw the change in the size of some Socialist Member by blocking the field to defend the indefensible. Mr. Tabares, look, we're used to these benches that we're called by everything, like fascists, American barf, mammoth, macaw, food, narco president and corrupt. Well, today you become part of this select club of deputies. Then take offense because we call them the Socialist Party panderiers. They have, in fact, very fine skin. But by going to the initiative itself — because I want to explain important issues — there is something, Mr Aranguena, in which we agree all the political forces. It's in the set-up of tools for improving the quality of autonomous administration to enhance transparency and combat corruption. In fact, you should know that it was this People's Party government, with this parliamentary group, which has promoted a new package of measures in this House itself. It was often with the support of his group, as was the Transparency Act, and others with abstention or even without support, such as the Party Financing Act, the Citizenship Participation Act, the Law of Legal Advice or a Law of Prevention of Corruption which reformed the Council of Auditors Act. I do not know whether you intend to amend the Transparency Law which has been approved — I say — with the vote in favour of your party. We, of course, are ashamed of any militant or role of the People's Party that takes advantage of our acronyms and our trust to profit at the expense of the citizens. I hope you're just as strong as you are. And you should be as powerful as PSOE corruption as the People's Party, Mr Tabares. Because that's what it does is that you lose a lot of credibility. Corruption belongs to people, to all people. I also tell you that, when you talk about transparency, Mr. Arunguena, it is not very appropriate to self-amend your initiative and change it almost completely. We know his self-amendment when the amendments were presented. We could hardly fix it, could we? I know that it's legally possible, but man! you did an auto fine that could be a new initiative. But, well, we have no problem discussing this. What I'm telling you is that everything is already approved or exists or is already running. Look, you're asking for a plan to modernise and improve the autonomic administration. The evaluation of the objectives you know is currently being carried out by the German Government following the Strategic Plan. He was told in a question that you yourself asked the Director General for Evaluation and Administrative Reform. You should know that the current Galician Strategic Plan includes a system of evaluation and tracking based on a complex battery of indicators: 530 indicators of productivity and 135 output or effectiveness — if you prefer to describe it this way—. In addition, efficiency indicators therefore analysed the unit costs expected with regard to the costs incurred. In addition, this tracking system will also be included in the new strategic plan, which, as the President announced this morning, is being drawn up. So they're asking for what already exists. In point (b) they seek to increase the implementation of e-government and simplify public services to make them more flexible and accessible to citizenship. Well, in his line to go back to the Government's performance, he knows that last March 4 at the Board of Trustees, the General Plan for Management and Improvement of the Quality of Self-Government Public Sector Services -- a plan involving ten axes of actions involving 26 measures and 61 actions -- was approved. So simplifications, flexibility of procedures and accessibility for citizenship are already approved, and not only in various plans but also in relation to new technologies, especially with digital access to services. At point (c) to improve transparency and increase citizen participation, you should also know that there is a General Plan for Management and Improvement of the Quality of Services of the Autonomic Public Sector, which includes a specific axis on this issue, axis 7, Mr. Aranguena. The title is: "Information is attention to citizenship", which collects different measures and actions in this field. And there's also axis 8 -- with the heading "citizens' participation" -- which incorporates specific actions to increase accessibility and participation, by introducing improvements to the board's corporate website, which you can check out over these days. (d) with regard to incorporating into the functions of the Board of Auditors public policy assessment, perhaps this request is even more surprising here, since it is not easy for the Socialist Parliamentary Group to know that the Board of Auditors carries out operational audits — in addition to regularity and compliance — which assesses the degree of compliance with plans and programmes. So we don't think it's necessary to amend the Board of Auditors law. You can ask your colleagues back there, Mrs. Leticia Gallego and Mrs. Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, who are part of the Board of Auditors committee and who are equally better told to you than I am. The letter e)from its self-amendment—"improve recruitment and management processes"— seems to forget that the principles cited are already to be respected for all administrations, Mr. Aranguena. You didn't come here to find out the gunpowder. Moreover, I can tell you that the General Plan for Management and Improvement of the Quality of Services includes -- on axis 4, recruitment, and on axis 5, personnel management -- several measures for these areas of action. I invite you to consult them. But the initiative of the German Government goes much further. According to the Board of Trustees, in February this year, two working groups — one in the field of grants and one in the field of recruitment — are already developing common-use protocols for all management centres to serve as models for the basis for subsidies or type-of-use models. (f)refers to transpose Directive 1937 of the European Parliament of the Council on the protection of complainants of corruption, and point (g)to promote the establishment of an independent anti-corruption office, in line with those in other autonomous communities. I will certainly not have to explain to you, as a lawyer, that the transposition of directives must take place from the Government of Spain. I want to think about it, but, of course, you put it here on your own initiative. This is state competition. And, after three years, Mr Sánchez's government — the most expensive and broad government in our country's history — has done nothing to transpose this directive, so you also know as a Member and a lawyer that the transposition of this directive, if not done, is of direct application. And do you know how long it's been a direct application? Perfect!, bingo, Mr. Arunguena! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since December 17th! Therefore, it is directly applicable. And you know why? As a result of a government that does not govern, that does not transpose the directive. Well, look, last December 10th, even before it arrived on the 17th, the Board of Directors approved the General Plan for Prevention and Anti-Fraud Measures — by the way, the first approved in Spain, we do not have to copy any autonomous community, including the creation of a channel of complaints that will be put into operation in January, as it is in that plan. It was a decision that adopted the Union without the coverage of the transposition of the Spanish Community legislation, seven days earlier, but by applying the principle of direct application, because it came into force directly, as you well know. I thought I didn't know. He did not doubt his jurisdiction as a lawyer; but, of course, as he puts it on the paper, for, in truth, let me sometimes have to doubt these things. On the other hand, the Framework Programme of Institutional Activity, which you qualify as "a set of vaguities", even though it responds point by point to the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, already collected the creation of a channel of complaints. So, I'm sorry to repeat, but, Mr. Arunguena, everything you're asking for already exists. point (h)is to comply with Article 52 of Law 16/2010 on organisation and operation. As you know, it has already been published, Mr. Aranguena, and it is within the time limit of allegations and public hearing at the Transparency Portal. No, you can consult him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that I'm not saying things that aren't published. You're all changed, but I'm saying realities. And you can consult it on the website and the Transparency Portal. Look, you'll understand that there's enough reasons not to support your initiative. Since then, as in the matter of transparency and the fight against corruption, they go behind the action of the German Government, it would not be wrong if they were, first, to set up their home, which they lack, starting with what happens in the Vigo Council and in the Pontevedra Deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u76	Arrangen, as some say, Vigo's. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u78	Mr. President, thank you. We regret that the People's Party, not even implicated by the Christmas spirit, is willing to adopt a proposal that simply seeks to improve and modernize the Public Administration. Because you speak, Mrs. Prado, of lack of rigour. But the lack of rigour is yours when it says that we bring here a plan for transparency and fight against corruption, when it specifically says that it is a plan for the improvement and modernization of the public administration, in which transparency and fight against corruption is one of the multiple sub-heads I have mentioned before, but the plan is for the improvement and modernization of the Greek public administration. You guys don't think it's necessary to improve it, it seems. Well, that's great. He's also talking about lack of exemplaryness. Home!, that I am not being exemplary to the representative of a party from which the first sentence of the Gürtel case said — and I quote literally — "that you have set up a real and effective system of institutional corruption", that you speak to me of lack of exemplaryness... because it surprises me, at least. [[Applause]] Let me speak of a lack of exemplity to the representative of a party which has the most opaque deputation, with more lack of transparency and which works in all administrative quality parameters — and also corruption — of Spain, such as the Deputy of Ourense, in which 80% of contracts and subsidies are given — usually, and by chance, to the friends of the People's Party — because I find it almost an attack on the common sense. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And anyway, tell me it's all going on. I'm telling you, none of the eight axes we propose are practically on the move, none of them! And I'm not going into every point because I don't have time, obviously. The Board of Auditors conducts operational audits, of course, yes, but not the evaluation of public policies, which is quite different. If you want to explain it to him by some of your partymates who know about this, or call the Board of Auditors, I'm sure they'll explain it very well. Tell me the transposition must be done by the state. But then you tell me you're already launching the complaint channel, which is incompatible with what you're telling me. If you tell me that transposition corresponds to the state and that you have nothing to do, and then you tell me that you're already launching the complaint channel, what I'm telling you is not that you're launching the complaint channel, what I'm telling you is that you're launching once a channel of complaints that you've been implementing for a long time now. Because by chance last May 26 – just in the days when the index of the University of Gothenburg was known, what we are talking about and what I refer to earlier – you issued a press release in which they said that the Board approved the first institutional integrity program to advance the transparency and efficiency of the autonomous administration. The first institutional integrity program approves this year when you've been ruling for eleven years! Well, it's a breakthrough, because at least you recognize that you need to move forward in the transparency and efficiency of the Union — something that you deny because you tell me it's all in progress. But then one is going to analyze the actions of that program and they're actually laughing, a sort of rebuttal of that that that they called "democratic impulse program" in 2015, when the People's Party was whipped up by that wave of corruption and had to pull a rabbit out of the joke. So it must be concluded that, every time you detect a problem in public opinion, you're taking out a program, which is a mere screen, a pantomime, pure propaganda, like all the plans, strategies and programs in the different areas you're only trying to confuse public opinion and make what they do. Because that's his main government action: to do what they do. Then, in the field of public employment, as the Board of Auditors recently issued — the Board of Auditors, not this Member — a report on staff recruitment in Galicia between the years 2014 and 2019 when it warns about uncontrollability in recruiting the Board's staff in all the bodies dependent on it — which are many —. And the content of this report is demolition because it says that there are repeated and systematic breaches of basic principles of administrative recruitment of staff, such as control, guarantee and transparency. I'm not saying it, the Court of Auditors. And a political and sensible assessment of this technical report is that Galicia's PP has implemented a system of recruitment of personnel and personnel management which, instead of respecting the principles of equality and merit, perpetuates situations of abuse and arbitraryness — which are not casual but rather because they obey a deliberate strategy to patrimony public jobs for the benefit of people close to the PP—. I mean, in addition to the lack of control and lack of legality, there is more than he says -- obviously with his technical and diplomatic language -- the Board of Auditors. There are many reasons for the improvement of the Greek Public Administration. The European funding we will receive in the coming years will be conditioned and limited on the line of examining the quality and implementation of the projects that are intended to be promoted by this funding. In short, citizenship, the economy of Galicia and public well-being depend on the improvement and smooth functioning of the Government of Galicia. You guys refuse to get better because they say everything's all right now and that, for what's not right, you already have a lot of shows and I don't know what. Well, what I'm telling you is that, without the will of improvement, without the will of modernization, without the control of management, without the evaluation of public policies, there's no chance of doing things right in Galicia. And, therefore, I find it incomprehensible that you are not able to support a proposal that is the only thing you want to improve and modernize a Welsh public administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u80	...which is fundamentally in need of that improvement and modernization. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u81	About the BNG amendment, will you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u82	You don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u83	Thank you. Non-legislative proposal by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the transfer from Galicia to the Government of Spain of the refusal of the measures provided for in the proposed text of the Fisheries Control Regulation 1224/2009
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u84	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u85	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u86	Good morning. Thank you, President. We are going to talk today about the fisheries control regulation — as the President of Parliament rightly said in the statement — to alert us from the Council of Galicia, to warn us from this German Parliament, of what is intended to be done — and above all to raise our voice from Galicia — to defend the craft fleet. As you well know, Regulation 1224/2009 of the Council of the European Union of 20 November 2009 establishes the Community control regime to ensure compliance with the common fisheries policy. It is currently in a period of large-scale review with a view to improving and updating the control regime to harmonise the fisheries inspection systems of the Member States, including, as I said, the small-scale fleet. On 11 March this same year, the plenary of the European Parliament adopted its position on the reform of the Control Regulation working on the European Commission's proposal to modernise control and enforcement measures without penalizing or creating excessive bureaucracy in the sector — that is to say —. Negotiations in the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Ministers — Member States — have been taking place since September, in the so-called "trilogues", after which a final decision will be taken to determine the final text. So today — which we are on December 22, 2021 — we are here because we must continue to work to improve that text and make it fit the circumstances of the artisanal coastal fleet. I've already said it's really to avoid some of the measures they want to take, because they would do a lot of damage. What are the most important negative issues in the proposal for a regulation? The main one — which I believe you have surely heard about it — is the location of vessels less than 12 meters long, of which there is a great deal in Galicia. That is, the incorporation of geolocation systems, which is very difficult to incorporate for various reasons. And they speak of accumulated location, something very complicated because this fleet is very close to each other; therefore this type of control does not come up with great advances on the mere visual follow-up that takes place from the ground. And that's what the Galician Coast Guard Service says. Another is not available for electrical means on board. Many artisanal coastal fishing vessels, especially those dedicated to seafood, lack an in-board motor. Therefore, to implement this measure should have batteries, which would require a disbursement and raise a cost that is currently not available to do. The incorporation of surveillance and control systems through closed circuit television cameras is a very disproportionate measure for such vessels. You'll know what boats I'm talking about. And normally these kinds of boats usually have a small number of species — even one, as is the case, for example, with respect to sense. And in addition to all the expenses of the installation, when they are already subject to comprehensive controls of quantities and sources, we believe that this is also an absolute interference in the privacy of the crew. On the obligation to register digitally the landing declarations of vessels of less than 12 meters of length, we believe that vessels of artisanal coastal fleet whose fishing tides are less than twenty-four hours should be free to carry and cover a daily notebook in electronic format, with prior notice of landing, declaration of landing, note of sale and transport document. We see it quite excessive, and we see it in accordance with the Fisheries Council, because this is really a transfer from the sector itself, from the sailors themselves, to the Fisheries Council and, therefore, to the Council of Galicia and this Parliament. Another issue is the elimination of the concept of batches for manufactured preserved products. Well, from the People's Party, and following the request — as I said — of the Galego Fisheries Council, he defended this proposal by understanding that it did not favor the Welsh freezing industry and industry, but it did not prosper. I don't know what you're going to think, but it seems to us that's also inappropriate. The definition of the artisanal coastal fleet is another point in which the People's Party has also made an amendment — and it has not prospered — to the proposed definition, with the current line in the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna. In this commission there is a recognition with four parameters of what would be a small-scale coastal vessel, a catch vessel with at least five characteristics: length of less than 12 meters, fishing activities carried out exclusively within the territorial waters of the pavilion, fishing tides that last less than twenty-four hours, maximum number of crew members of four persons and a vessel with fishing techniques that are selective and have a reduced environmental impact. In view of this definition, the impositions and rules or rules that are intended to be imposed from the regulation — as I say — seem excessive. Well, in the last few weeks, as I said, in addition to the threesomes in Europe, the fishing sector has again transferred its refusal to the plans of the Government of Spain to launch, in a pilot way, the measures covered by the Regulation, and to invest 1.5 million euros mainly in the development of a computer app and the purchase of 150 tablets to test in 150 fishing vessels in Galicia. The sector does not understand this when, since the General Fisheries Secretariat, they have been asked to defend in Brussels the demands of the Spanish fleet within the negotiations that have now begun for the adoption of the Control Regulation. I mean, you're already doing a pilot experiment, you're already saying that this is going to be implanted, the truth is you've really felt very bad in the fishing sector. It also seems to us that it is to remove the towel very soon and that, therefore, we should try to prevent this from taking forward. It is a cost, in this case, by the Ministry of Fisheries which could be avoided or devoted to other matters. For the fishermen's representatives, the existing control measures are sufficient — for this parliamentary group too — and the proposals included in the regulation, even without approval, generate an excess of zeal which does not guarantee compliance with the rules and will cause a major complication of activity on board. It draws attention — as I said — to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, through the General Secretariat for Fisheries, decides, apart from the sector, to make this investment of EUR 1.5 million in measures which are not yet approved in the Control Regulation, when priorities and demands from the fisheries sector point to issues such as the modernisation of the fleet, such as improvement of vessels, the safety of vessels, the improvement of distances or the promotion of fisheries products. It would be much more productive to make that investment in this sort of thing than to do for experiments or pilot experiments of something we're going to try not to move forward. Therefore, the main thing would be to fight in the trilogues in Brussels for the control regulation to be different. Since the file is still not closed, as I said the other day, we will always bring it to this Parliament to make every effort we can in the Ministry and in Brussels and avoid measures that are harmful to the sector. As it is still open, as I say, and they remain for the first half of 2022 a few months, we bring this non-law proposal asking for the following — you have read exactly the text so you know what we are asking for — "Translate during negotiations in the trilogues of the Fisheries Control Regulation 1224/2009 the rejection of the measures envisaged, in particular those relating to artisanal coastal fishing and specifically those referred to in the requirement to install chambers on board, the obligation to install electronic fishing newspapers in the craft fleet and the imposition of geolocation on ships of more than four metres in length." What else do we ask for?: "Make and directly leave without effect the actions leading to the application of the measures collected in the proposed amendment text of the Control Regulation, with particular impact on the tendering of the development and maintenance of an application for the communication of catches, declaration of landing and geolocation of the fleet fishing on a small scale, as well as those actions related to the installation of closed-circuit television cameras". And we insist and define these issues because really the investment planned in the Ministry and in the Government of Spain is to make a pilot experience with these themes, which is really what will make work very complicated in the craft fleet. It's going to complicate it to the point that to many, if they have to increase so much costs, if they have to have such a direct intrusion, if they have to deploy those cameras on board, it's actually going to cost them a lot to do their job. We believe that it is fair, we believe that it is what we are really asked for, I imagine, all the Members of this House and the Council itself of Galicia. That is what we stand for here in the Greek Parliament, what we stand for in the Courts and what we stand for in Brussels. We therefore believe that it is a responsibility of all — as I always say — to this case in which we are moving forward, since the regulation began in 2009 — and now we are in 2021 — measures that will drown our craft fleet very much. I therefore look forward to unanimous support for this initiative by all Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u88	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Well, it happens a little bit like it happened to Mrs. Egerique in the previous plenary. The People's Party brings back initiatives to this House which have already been debated in committee and in full and which have been approved unanimously, but now it brings back something in which they have already achieved the unanimous positioning of the House. In the previous plenary session, Mrs Egerique said that they had accumulated various initiatives that had already been discussed and that, as I say, they had already been approved. They therefore asked for this legal certainty in the reform of the Coastal Law and the Climate Change Act, the coordination between fishing and marketing of marrakesh or the withdrawal of the appeal against the plans of marine exploitation 2021-2023, which, as I said, had already been discussed on repeated occasions in committee and in plenary. But the truth is that in matters like these, like what they brought in the whole past and what they bring back today, the only thing that the People's Party is looking for is not the House's position to support in this case the craft fleet, but what they're looking for, of course, is to fool the sector with their position — because they've changed position, Mrs. Egerique — and also to look for that confrontation with the central government. These are subjects, by the way — those brought in the previous plenary session and those brought in today — in which, rather than having the will to solve the problems, it would be desirable for a government to do as it is for the Council of Galicia, what they are looking for is to create them and also to deceive the sector. In the Climate Change Act they asked for legal certainty for concessions in public maritime-terrestrial domain, and I'll tell you again that, when the PSOE brought an amendment to the Senate to give that legal security to old article 18.3 of the Climate Change Act, you didn't support it. They also said that they wanted the State to withdraw the remedy brought by the Central Administration against the plans for marine exploitation 2021-2023, but when the PSdEG deals with the Nationalist Block in Galicia an initiative calling for the withdrawal of that resource but doing well on behalf of the Galician Union, you go and vote against it. Finally, the fisheries control regulation is now brought back to this House, which, as I say, has been debated and approved unanimously. It is true, as Mrs. Egerique said, that we now find ourselves in these negotiations, in the trilogues of this control regulation. But, of course, it is good to remember and we must also comment that the European Parliament has approved a negotiating mandate — that is what Mrs Egerique was talking about — on 11 March. And he approved this negotiating mandate for these negotiations also in the Commission and the Council. Of course, this negotiating mandate went forward, but it went forward not only with the votes of the Socialist Party Members, but also with this negotiating mandate of the European Parliament, with the affirmative votes of the Members of the People's Party. Why have your MEPs approved this proposal in the European Parliament or not? She's been approved. And also, yes, Mr. Millan too. So he then seeks to deceive the sector, but when he had to cast this vote in the European Parliament, he voted in favour. Don't tell me no, Mrs. Egerique, that we're going to look for the results of the votes. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] Members of the People's Party voted in favour of this. Today the president of the Galician Council said that you can't lie here. So did you vote or didn't you vote in favor? [[Applause]] Of course, you're in the head, aren't you? Of course, Mrs. Egerique, we must not deceive anyone, and less the sector. But, of course, when you saw the electoral thread on this subject of the control regulation, they went to the car. I was already talking about the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block from that famous video that was anonymous, right, but we all know where it came from. So we already said, when we brought and brought initiatives also the other parliamentary groups — initiatives in this sense, in the fisheries control regulation — that there was a lot to go on and that we had to work everywhere to improve this proposal — especially in the area of craft fishing — and that the three groups agreed there. In fact, the Ministry of Fisheries has met on several occasions to listen also to the proposals and demands relating to this regulation, with the Greek fisheries sector. Because the Government of Spain, although it seems now that Mrs. Egerique says that she has removed the towel, has remained in her position in respect of exempting from these obligations the under-carriage fleet, especially the ships of less than 9 meters and those of the seafood. It's true that negotiations are being complex, but they're working on this issue. And, of course, from the PSdeG we share the proposals coming from the craft sector. It is true that Spain has not succeeded in excluding the fleet of up to 9 metres from the ministers' agreement, but the Spanish Government has achieved a written statement to the Presidency to reflect Spain's opposition to paragraph 93(b) of the draft affecting the fleet of less than 9 metres. But, look, you've got things. Enough? No, of course not. But it's important to remember that it has been achieved that only the search for more than 12 meters will be required to install VMS equipment with satellite connection. For ships from 9 to 12 meters, these are replaced by mobile telephony systems, and ships of 9 meters and seafood were excluded. Today Mrs. Egerique again spoke of that obligation to the Marishcan when she knows that this exclusion was achieved. Of course, I agree with you that we have to keep working on these trilogues. But the Minister of Fisheries also shares the general objective of having more reliable and accurate data on catches, of consolidating the culture of compliance and of ensuring fair treatment among the operators of the Member States, but shows their discrepancy with the requirements for the craft fleet. These requirements entail excessive administrative burden, would not bring additional benefits in fisheries control and are contrary to the simplification objectives that should be pursued. We believe that an assessment of the impact of these measures on the craft sector — that is, an assessment of the impact of these measures on costs — must be made on the negotiation of the trilogues. That's where we agree, Mrs. Egerique. So there's a way to go and a lot of work ahead to improve these measures with regard to artisanal fishing. Some, as I said, have been able to do about the geolocation, to which ships less than 9 meters are exempted and those of the Marqueo, to which only vessels more than 12 meters are located, and for those of between 9 and 12 meters are replaced by mobile telephony systems. There are also the changes introduced in the proposal that refer to the possibility that the device should not have to be installed on the ship, but may be portable. That was obvious to Mrs. Egerique. In the electronic journal and capture log is also the possibility of developing a proper system for vessels less than 12 meters. You've moved on? Yes. Enough for this parliamentary group? No, no, no, no. So, I agree that we must continue to negotiate and work and, of course, move the worries of our sector about craft fishing. What it seems is that you don't trust your MEPs very much, they don't talk to them very much, because they are also the ones who can put pressure on Community institutions. I don't think much of them are trusted and what they're coming here is to urge the central government. You even talked about the definition of the artisanal fishing fleet. But you know as I do that there is an agreement between all the political groups, including yours, Mrs Egerique, to address it in the context of the review of the common fisheries policy and not in the control regulation. So don't keep fooling the sector. We agreed at the first point on everything you said. As for the second point you were talking about, concerning the bidding for the development and maintenance of an application for the communication of captures, landing declarations and geolocation of the small scale fishing fleet, and those actions related to the installation of closed circuit cameras, we don't share what you say on your initiative; what they say is "dry-free" and we are at a stage in which we are, as you well said, in the negotiations of those trilogues. We therefore understand that our amendment is much more appropriate at the time when we are living in these negotiations in Europe, which says, instead of "freezing and leaving no effect" — and since we are in the negotiations of the trilogues — that while the negotiations of the Control Regulation in the trilogues are not being carried out, these applications and these tenders are being carried out by the central government. We're acquaintances, and so did the sector, which doesn't share that bid that's going on by the central government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u90	It's over, Mr. President. We believe that it is more appropriate than at the moment — that I hope not, and that many of these positions can be modified — that these measures are being approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u92	In the meantime, no. We therefore believe that it is more appropriate for us to live in negotiations in Europe. But we share, of course, the core of today's People's Party initiative because it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u93	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. Mrs. Egerique, if we really look at the proposals that you have brought to this House lately, I would give the impression that you are picking up the office and packing to leave. And in your particular case it can even be true, because I understand it was on the wrong list, right? So maybe it's fair that that's the reason that in the previous plenary, and now you're also bringing us initiatives here that it turns out that, as you were already told, we have unanimously approved. [[Murmurs.]] But not just once. [[Applause]] No, no, they were more. What happens is that, of course, the People's Party didn't introduce them, presented them with the Nationalist Block Galego. The People's Party is now taking a stand and bringing it in. Mrs Egerique will remind you that on 20 April, a non-legislative proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block was adopted by the Committee on Fisheries, which you like, to demand from the Government of the State. We asked the Government of the State for a lot of things, which are what you like. They didn't make any amends, they didn't have any buts. We approved it unanimously on 20 April. But, in addition, when it was actually known that the regulation would also affect people — as the proposal states — who are engaged in fishing without ships — who are seafarers and seafarers — we have presented another one and we have discussed it on May 5 — that is, on April 20 and May 5 — which we also unanimously approve. All this time, until now, that there is indeed already a debate in the trilogues, we have not seen that the People's Party here in this Parliament brought anything. So, that's why I say you seem to be picking up the office and finding out about the initiatives of the Block, which are the only, of course, that can be found, because they are the only ones that are presented. And now it says: oh, well!, this is quite profitable, as it is to sue the Government of the State we are to introduce it to us. And it's actually what they're doing here again, just like they did in the whole past. [[Applause]] Well, by then, in April, already in May, BNG had already qualified this regulation as the penultimate stock — because it was not indeed the last — to the Greek fishing sector, and in particular to its craft fleet. It's a regulation that imposes a series of control measures completely ignoring the reality of the Galician fleet and its singularity. I use it to ask you to transfer to the Council of the Sea—because it is in the middle of reporting and taking them to all places, even if they are not worth much, it is a shame—some report on the type of fleet we have in Galicia and taking it where we have to take it to see if they understand it; because they make regulations that ignore the size of our ships, of most of our ships, the areas where they usually do these ships — which are being nothing more and nothing less than the laughs — they ignore the duration of the tides, less than twenty-four hours in the vast majority of cases, they ignore the way to farm our people, and they even ignore this regulation — it is not the only one, unfortunately, the operation of the sale of the product. The vast majority of the Galician fleet, as everyone knows — more than 3,000 ships — is less than 12 meters in length; therefore, it is considered to be an under-float fleet, as an artisanal fleet. Fishing mostly in the rivers and therefore, as I said, with tides less than twenty-four hours, so grouped in the case of thousands of sailors and sailors to the fleet, and where the owner, moreover, does everything. The owner is the owner of the ship, he is the boss in most cases and, in addition, he is the person who makes the captures and then puts them for sale in lengths where they are weighed and recorded. In the case of walkers — who were fortunately excluded — because their exploitation is more than regulated through the farm plans, and the product they collect, which they capture, is heavy and controlled on the farthest sides. They also actually work in inland waters and, in the vast majority of cases, in beaches just far from the shores. Finally, the bluefin tuna sector and the fleeting marine sector is a sector with regulation, supervision, verification, inspection and surveillance measures. All of them, or the ninety-one percent of them, are exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community. And I also take this opportunity to ask you for the last time that you are at some point working — in the sense that we have also adopted many times in this Parliament — to ask the Committee on Transfers precisely the competences of the sea sector that we have not yet. [[Applause]] As we all know, the Control Regulation has led to the frontal rejection of the Welsh fleet, which has massively mobilized on two occasions this same year. And in spite of these mobilisations, and even before negotiations between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council began, what they actually call "trilogues", the Spanish Government played on that of the film — as it was — Mister Hyde and Mr Jekyll, or vice versa. For, on the one hand, the Spanish Government was moving to the sector which would do its best and impossible to try to reach a more beneficial agreement for the fleet and, on the other hand, in mid-August, to bid for EUR 1.5 million for the development — before the debate began — for the maintenance of an application for the communication of catches, the declaration of landing and the geolocation of the fleet, recognizing implicitly or explicitly that vessels less than 12 metres would be affected, yes or yes, by the regulation and therefore — and I read textually the declaration of the General Fisheries Secretary— "must be prepared". The contract, that tender contract, also included the acquisition of 150 portable devices for pilot testing. But they don't lose him, so he said, "150 devices to perform pilot tests." But not anywhere in the Spanish State, no, no, "150 portable devices for pilot testing in 150 ships of Galician clothing fleet." I mean, if you don't want broth, eat four cups. You mobilized yourself twice massively, you claimed because this was not the method of controlling the Welsh fleet, which was more than controlled, and now the pilot test we're going to apply directly to you. This, directly from the offices of Madrid. In fact, the Ministry had not only moved forward to the final adoption of this regulation which is not yet adopted, but had even moved ahead to the beginning of the debate and, therefore, to its adoption. But it was still beyond the Spanish Government. Also in August he prepared the bases for the award of grants for the purchase of equipment necessary for the fleet, with a maximum of 500 euros per boat of less than 12 meters for the purchase of electronic devices and a maximum of 15,000 euros for something called "electronic monitoring" — which are being the cameras on board. As the Secretary-General of Fisheries said, they had to be prepared, and they were prepared even before this was approved — which, I insist, remains unapproved. So it seems to us that it does not proceed, that it does not proceed. And the Spanish ministry either has privileged information or you really don't know what you're playing. I would like to make it clear that today the Galician fleet is monitored and controlled on the shores, on the ports, on the roads, on the highways. And it's controlled by the Civil Guard, the board inspectors and the Ministry's own inspectors. As that said, three distinct people and one true end, the absolute and superlative control of everything that moves. And the Ministry itself has that desire to control everything that moves, because it will not only implement these measures, which is already putting them into effect as a matter of fact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u96	...—Finished, Mr. President—but besides, he also hired with other 1.5 million a drone and three technicians; that is, there was not enough but that the fleet would be controlled by...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u98	...land, by sea and by air. You don't have any justification for the Ministry's performance and I have to say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u100	...—referred, Mr President—that neither the Union nor the United States, because it is only concerned with demanding the state, but very little action. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u102	For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u103	Thank you, President. There is already the Galego Nationalist Block with the flag that they are the owners and the only defenders of fishing, when it is quite the opposite, Mrs. Pérez, quite the opposite. Look, what's true is that you've been in the bank for quite a while — returning a little of the appeal you made to my person. Now the BNG, to regain vows, turned again to the old glories. So again you're here and I don't know if it's for the defense of fishing, I don't know if it's for the defense of fishing. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pérez, I don't know if you've been on the wrong list or if you haven't taken it. [[Murmurs.]] What's clear is that the BNG, when it was in the Bipartite, raised a mess in the sector. And now with the greens in Brussels he's setting up another mess in the sector. And here they don't know how to snake and how to try to prevent us from learning that in Brussels you're not favoring the fishing sector for nothing. In contrast, they are supporting the measures which will drown the sector. In this case, in the Rules of Procedure, I shall now speak of votes. Because, look, Mrs. Otero, I've already told you in another plenary, and I'll explain it as in the previous plenary. We really approve initiatives in the Commission with the will of the Ministry to make decisions, but it will pass the time and the Ministry will go in the wrong direction. There are EUR 1.5 million in the budgets for pilot experience of measures in the European Control Regulation which we do not want to move forward. So if we approve an initiative in the Commission so that they don't move ahead and the Ministry goes and puts EUR 1.5 million in the budgets to be applied, you are hypocritical. I've told you before, they're hypocrites. I have not denied here anything that has been voted on in the European Parliament. As I say, I will speak after the votes. And we do not deny the negotiating mandate at all. We want to change those specific points of what I spoke about earlier about the craft fleet, because they really are to irreverent us. We know how they work, how they do it, how they are the boats and the difficulties they have, and even above all they want to put more trouble on them. And what the sector says, look, you'll know, because the news from El Progreso on 23 August is: "The Galician Federation of Fishermen's Cofradies criticized the intention of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to invest 1.5 million euros in a pilot project to geolocalize 150 Galician vessels of shirts and remotely control their catches." So what do they say?: "It seems to us a lack of consideration by the Spanish Ministry of Fisheries which already develops a computer application when the trilogues have not met." By August they had these budget projects to include that application and that pilot project. Therefore, it's a coat of hair, of course it is! I have to bring him here and I've already said in the previous plenary that I'll bring him in whenever necessary, because if we approve some things in committee and the Ministry goes on a completely different line, with other intentions, we have to keep defending him. And besides, you present today an amendment, and you did not present it in the commission. It presents an amendment to the Socialist Party, and to us it smells like it's because you know the defense is going to be fictitious, that the defense in the trilogues by the Socialist Party is going to be fictitious. That is to say, you have already told the Ministry that these measures will be carried out; therefore, it seems to be a kind of delivery in time to conceal, but that it will end up imposing and will end up defending that imposition. And we'll be here to say no, to say no, because it's very complicated, really. It's really drowning the craft fleet. So in this case, we're not going to accept the amendment. You spoke of the definition of the craft fleet, Mrs. Otero. He didn't understand what I said. I said this about the point defense, not that it's going to be changed in the Control Regulation. I may have expressed myself badly. Look, I want to talk about the votes in Brussels, because they are important. I always say this: in the fisheries and primary sectors, it is very important what is now being done in Brussels. In addition, the environmental issue is being radically dominated and the primary sector — here fishing — is being drowned in many ways. On the subject of the electronic journal, a amendment by the People's Party was introduced. Only the People's Party remained and finally presented an amendment to the Portuguese communists. He only voted in favour of the People's Party because he was in defense of this sector. They did force their deputies, and the People's Party supported them. On mandatory television cameras, he voted in favour of the Socialist Party, voted in favour of the Greens, European Free Alliance — the parliamentary group where the Galego Nationalist Block is integrated — he also voted in favour, Pernando Barrena, the deputy of Bildu. They voted in favour of mandatory television cameras for ships over 12 meters long. He voted against the People's Party. On the exemption from geolocation for minor arts, he voted in favour of the People's Party, in this case, the Greens also vote in favour, but... yes, yes, yes, yes, I don't say no, but he votes against the Socialist Party... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u105	...because it's already included. On lots, he votes in favour of the People's Party; on the contrary, PSOE and the Greens. And on the artisanal coastal fleet, in favour of the People's Party and the Greens; on the contrary, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u107	You have a mental cocoa, you have a hypocrisy, you support all the points here, but they do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u108	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u109	...all the opposite in Brussels. So we don't accept the amendment. I hope they approve this and also comply, not just vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's move on to the next initiative. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on Parliament's commitment and support to the Constitution and the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia and the rejection of initiatives promoting the independence of Galicia or any other autonomous community of Spain
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u111	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u112	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. This month of December we celebrated two fundamental milestones for Spanish democracy and for the Italian self-government: last day 6 we celebrated the fourth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution, and last Sunday, on Sunday, December 19, we celebrated the fortieth anniversary of the first session of this parliament; two dates marked that the great majority of the Greeks celebrate, because they assumed to Galicia the beginning of the greatest period of prosperity and development of the history of our country. Let me remind you of some history for the younger ones of this camera. On December 6, 1978, millions of citizens went out to the streets across Spain to support the draft Constitution. 88.5% gave a "yes" round to the Spanish Constitution. And that percentage was even higher in Galicia: 90.1% of the Greeks voted "yes" to the Spanish Constitution. This vast support, both in Spain and Galicia, undoubtedly responded to the aspirations of freedom and self-government that our society had. This 6th of December took a decisive step so that Galicia could form an autonomous community and exercise its own self-governance through democratic institutions such as the Galician Union or this chamber or all the statutory bodies that would then come. Forty-three years ago, the Greeks decided to live in an autonomous community with institutions that managed fundamental public services, such as health, education, social services, and that they enjoyed a wide catalogue of rights and freedoms such as those guaranteed by the Spanish Constitution, a Constitution that not only recognizes the right of our own autonomy but also the principle of solidarity between the different territories that we have set up Spain. Forty-three years later, the state of autonomy continues to be the best formula for articulating the plurality and diversity that we make up the peoples of Spain, constitutional Spain, Spain of autonomy, a framework of coexistence which I have had for the whole country, and in particular for Galicia, the era of greater development and greater self-government in our history. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a phrase made. Target data, contrast data, offer an exceptional photograph of Galician development over the past 40 years. Forty years ago we were Spain's third poorest community; today we are an exporting community, with per capita GDP exceeding 93% of the state average and with an average income reaching 91%. Forty years ago Galicia had 86 kilometers of highways; today we have 1,400 kilometers of highways. Forty years ago Galicia had 14 hospitals, 55 outpatient clinics; today the Greeks can visit 28 hospitals, 398 health centers, 68 consultants, 25 specialty centers. Forty years ago Galicia had 351 heritage elements protected throughout the territory; today that list reaches 748 cultural interests. Forty years ago Galicia didn't have just infrastructure to treat waste water from cities; today we have 159 debuggers and a fundamental instrument such as Sogama, which allows the suppression of illegal landfills. Forty years ago in Galicia, tourism represented around 3% of the GNP; today it exceeds 11%, and this year we had five million tourists, the only autonomous community in all of Spain this summer recovered the levels of pre-pandamia. In the strictly economic field, evolution is unquestionable. Since 2008 Galicia has been the third autonomous community that has increased GDP per capita most, and we are the least indebtedness autonomy, with a lower debt volume since that date. Last year we led the investor effort across Spain and became the most agile community in paying suppliers. We could continue the development of education and universities, the recovery of cultural and linguistic self-esteem, the extraordinary development of the primary sector, industrial innovation or social welfare. The advances are countless, ladies and gentlemen, and allow me to clarify: this does not mean that we are satisfied. No, sir. We recognize that much remains to be done and that the challenges we face as a society are many and very complex. But, of course, from the People's Group, we think it's welcome to acknowledge all that we have achieved until today and to thank the generations that preceded us and that have made it possible. [[Applause]] Starting from this indisputable historical reality, how can there be parties in Spain that deny the legacy of the Transition and attack the Spanish Constitution? How can there be anyone who opposes these forty years of our history? How can anyone oppose the best forty years of our country's history? The answer is very simple: there are parties who don't want to build a better society on the foundations of our collective achievements, but what they want is to tear down everything to try to rule the ruins. The radical parties, the independent parties want to end with the big consensus that this country has built, tear down a confronted society, a impoverished society. They want us to believe that everything is wrong and that only they have that miraculous formula so that it's all right. They want everything to sink so they could say they were right, to benefit from the polls of their own self-fulfilled prophecy. That destructive and aggravating vision also arrived in Galicia, represented by an ashtray BNG that is against everything, at which nothing serves it, which sees the bad side absolutely everything, a BNG that is always the first to criticize but the last to close its shoulder and work for a better Galicia. We saw him during the worst moments of the pandemic. A BNG who tries to disguise himself in every electoral process of conciliatory party, but which soon takes time to show his true face. We have just seen it, early in November: the BNG was placed at its congress on the very eve of moderation; we have renounced independence, said Ana Pontón; now we are the BNG of the "yes" -- so they have titled their press notes. But reality has been imposed and most of the members of the BNG still see the next electoral process very far and therefore believe that they can be shown as they really are. And that's why in just two months there have been certain issues that I think portray Greek nationalism. They refused to condemn violence as a political tool in this same chamber—it was in the debate of the state of autonomy—; they spoke with Bildu asking for an independent Basque country; they celebrated on 1 October, the anniversary of that illegal referendum of independence in Catalonia; they renewed their support for the Cuban camp, meeting with several leaders of the same at the worst time of repression; they invited the independenceist Gabriel Rufian in Galicia; they voted "no" systematically both to the budgets of the Galician Union and to the practice of all the initiatives that start this group, simply because they are part of this group; they proposed to hold an act with the first nationalist deputies, — they must remember — expelled from the constituent Parliament for refusing to comply with the Constitution and the legal order; and they celebrated with Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia an act against the Constitution on 6 December, against the legality and the framework of our country's coexistence. These are the actions of a party that renounces independence, break-up? We think, unfortunately, no. And, as a colophon to all these facts, we had to hear the words of his only Member in Madrid, Mr. Nestor Rego, who in the debate of the general budgets of the State said: Galicia will be, sooner than later, a free and sovereign republic. Is this camera in line with Mr. Nestor Rego's statements? That's what we're asking ourselves at this initiative today. We believe that the only thing that can be demanded from a political party is honesty. In terms of law and democratic principles, all ideas are acceptable, I would miss more! What is not acceptable is lies, what is not acceptable is deception, what is not acceptable is trying to deceive all the Greeks. And so we bring to this House an initiative that we understand should be accepted normally by all groups; an initiative in which we celebrate the anniversary of the Galician Parliament, we applaud the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, which allowed these forty years of self-government and development; such a radical initiative that I will pass and read it, because it says: "The Galician Parliament manifests, by fulfilling the 40th anniversary of the Constitution and its first democratic Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u115	...their commitment and support to the vigorous Spanish Constitution and the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia and therefore their rejection of any initiative that promotes the independence of Galicia or any other autonomous community of Spain, because that puts itself at risk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u117	...the framework of cohabitation which all Spaniards gave us and which guarantees the self-government of Galicia."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u119	This is how simple and reasonable our initiative is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u121	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u122	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, don't miss me, and I can understand that anyone who wants to be independent of you and the rest of the members of the Vox section of the People's Party of Galicia, because, at best, you come here to falsify reality and, worst of all, look for bronca. [[Applause]] Today you have exercised both modalities, i.e., you have forged reality, telling us of a piece of wonder that would be supposedly today Galicia, and also came manifestly looking for bronze. On the other hand, allow me to express our surprise at the fact that today this House was brought to the People's Party by a PNL that is identical, identical, to the resolution that was adopted in the debate of the state of autonomy of October. Do you believe that the issue of the defense of the Statute and the disagreement with independence is something that should be reproduced in this chamber every two months? Don't you feel bound by the resolution that you pushed yourself and that, by the way, we've been dealing with you less than seventy days ago? Because if you consider yourself bound by that resolution, what you are proposing today is completely unnecessary and, therefore, what you want, in addition to looking for bronca and falsifying reality, is to make us waste our time in the best of cases, or to drive us crazy or to take the hair of citizenship, more likely. Because it seems that in the middle of the sixth wave of the pandemic you prefer to talk about independence, which is a subject where you feel frankly at ease, that of the real problems of Galicia, among which, of course, there is no such idea of independence today, which would only be evaluated by a small part of our population. To talk about things other than the concerns of our citizenship, we've been talking here not long ago about a hypothetical right of the Church to be converted into a province, about the claim that they bet and cribs decide their territorial fit through a popular consultation. I have already said on one occasion that I consider that the right to decide does not exist and, of course, there is no place, and, in my opinion, it should never even exist, because it would be a source of eternal conflict. And politics is just the opposite, to avoid conflicts and solve the existing ones, not to create new conflicts, which is also what you like. Because that's exactly what the PP is doing today by bringing this proposal to this chamber: to mess up, to seek conflict from the conflict, to re-express what has already been revealed — I insist — seventy days ago in this chamber. And besides looking for conflict and bronca — which is the main attitude and specialty of the voice section of the Galician PP, of which you are a part — because by step you seek to divert attention, scatter ink of silence. To divert attention at a time when we see how the incidence of the virus gets shot -- and I don't blame you, of course, but that's the real problem today in Galicia -- at a time when there are economic doubts, inflation problems that haven't existed in the world for decades, not in Spain. Mr. Tellado, look at the economic supplements a little bit if you're interested in something about your reality, not your forgery. By the way, the price of light, indeed — as you always speak — is shot across Europe, also in Spain. Well, those are the real problems. Sixth wave, Mr. Tellado. We're here talking about independence, self-government and the masterpiece of wonders that you painted for us. It is self-governance that, by the way, you do not exercise, because forty years after that hard conquest of Autonomy which has been reported by the father of our Lady Noa Díaz in a book of the same title, you renounce the whole parcel of self-government. Why do they talk so much about self-government if they don't exercise the skills and obligations they have in industrial policy, which doesn't exist in Galicia? Why do they talk so much about self-government if they don't exercise their powers and obligations in housing policy, completely non-existent in Galicia? Why do they talk so much about self-government if they don't exercise their competences and obligations in environmental policies, in which we are on the line of state? Why do they talk so much about self-government if they don't exercise their powers and social policy obligations, in which we are also in the line of state? Well, you are absolutely hypoactive in self-government but absolutely hyperactive in the search for external enemies, such as the Central Government, who seems to be the cause of all Galician problems for three years. Of course, for that reason it is necessary to falsify and pervert reality, omitting that, for example, this Monday the AVE was inaugurated in Galicia, but Mr. Feijóo and Mrs. Vázquez said a year ago that this year would not arrive in Galicia; the facts denied their lies. Now they'll say they don't like the color of the seats surely, but while the progressive government hasn't lost a minute in the works of the AVE, Rajoy's governments have paralyzed the works of the AVE with delays between two and three years in several sections, and irregularities of all kinds. I don't say so, it's written in a demolition report by the Court of Auditors that is here on this title of the Galician Voice—which is not, as we know, a Bolivarian newspaper—and that leaves them to you at the height of the betume. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández displays a document.]] And while you're talking about harassment and aggravation, the progressive government brings forward the greatest reduction in the rates of our history, after Mr. Aznar -- not anything other than Mr. Aznar, the Government of Aznar -- extended the concession of AP-9 twenty-five years, a quarter of a century, which has not happened in any other autonomous community, and now the European Union says that it could be illegal; an extension in which you applauded the ears of the Government of which Mr. Feijóo was in high charge. Look, the AVE to Galicia is going to contribute much more to mitigating any independent delirium than this initiative, because it will contribute to overcoming what was said by a Member of the Second Republic, who claimed that Galicia had a separatist geography; which fortunately remains behind thanks to the state's effort of solidarity. Because, as one press headline said these days -- here's that headline -- this time we're not the last, but there's seven autonomous communities that haven't reached the AVE yet. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández displays a document.]] You say not with your head; well, tell The Voice of Galicia, that — I insist — is not a Bolivarian newspaper. We are federalists, because we understand that federalism is a technique and a formula for resolving conflicts and for cooperating instead of dividing. We have already said in this chamber that the autonomic model varies between the Escila of centralism and the Caribdis of independence. In that sense, we bet on moving forward in the autonomic model, the model we claim, while we obviously believe in its perfection, because any system is likely to be perfected and improved, and federalism is not something static but dynamic. We believe in federalism and we believe that there should be no problems because it progresses, by the way, in the transfer of competences, as we have long been defending in this chamber, in which we have already presented a non-law proposal a year ago so that the Board claims thirty competitions, a bet we understand that ambitious, indeed, in the time of the Government of Mr Feijóo, after twelve years of governments in which there was not a single new transfer to Galicia. We use to do here, once again, a radical defense of a moderate idea like the state of autonomy, as far as the advocates of the immoderate radicalism that very moderate radicality seems to them to think that it is not up to their dreams and the advocates of immobilism to them too radical. I insist: after twelve years of Feijóo's governments in which there has not been a single new transfer to Galicia, the PSdeg proposes to advance not on the path of the independentist delirium but on the path of reform, of continuous progress, of the adaptation of a statute that dates back to 1981 and reflects a world that has certainly changed a lot. And we also defend the real exercise of self-government, not the permanent exercise of escapism in which you live, which consists of systematically circumventing your competences and responsibilities. In any case, speaking of independence and separatism, because we have no problem in saying that the right to decide is an invention not to speak of the true theme of the separatist groups in our country, which is the right to self-determination, which clearly applies only to cases of colonial domination or equivalent, according to the resolutions and the philosophy of the resolutions of the United Nations. Because, in order to conclude, I have to say in a simplified way, that in politics you can be able to hold bridges or to dynamite them. In other words, you can be able to add or to remain and divide, consciously or unconsciously, because many of the outcomes that occur in the world have more to do with unconsciousness, with the lack of knowledge and proper weighting of the consequences of own acts than with the intrinsic evil of humanity. The great politicians were able to add, some even to multiply, but always were able to hold bridges between the past and the present, between the present and the future, between landscape and landscape, people who thought differently, people who were born in different places or who had different colors of the skin. We are in favour of that, not of the walls, but of the bridges. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. He didn't come to speak of self-government, he came to speak of the Block, in a very serious tone; to me there were moments that would invite me the initiative perhaps to some dramatic music. Because, as all your lords can understand, Galicia is completely paralyzed, not waiting for Gordo's number, but waiting for the minute and result of this debate, this vote. There are the Rotary, Companions and Media Companions waiting to see how we titrated the first pages of the newspapers tomorrow morning; the web, the technological services, the Parliament's website also collapsed, pending — I insist — of the minute and result of the vote here at Horreo's palace. We were also told that we denied something, that we denied what we were, that we hid something, in a sort of occultist contuberance. And I, listening to Mr. Tellado, reminded me of the companions — especially any fellows — of the BNG who founded at that meeting in Riazor — will remember — in 1982 the Block itself. And I suppose those serious gentlemen of the time would be saying, "You see, fellows, how are we going to hide from the Greek people what we are?" And at the bottom of the room there would be someone -- certainly Lugo -- saying, let's put it in the name. [[Applause]] A plan without cracks to hide what any of us are. [[Applause]] Because I want to remind you of the people chased from the right bench, aliens who landed from yesterday's Mars, which BNG means — attentive — Nationalist Block — we retain this concept well; if not, the next one doesn't understand it, German nationalists. [[Applause]] You couldn't know, huh! [[Applause]] And I believe that reading understanding—i.e., reading and understanding what you read—is to bring it from the house—here it doesn't split—but that in the BNG we are — they know it well—incombustible, tireless, we have more morals than the Alcoyano, we have and we accomplish in addition a public service mission and we don't give anyone for lost—not to you, Mr Tellado, I bring you Greek nationalism today to Dunmys, a multilingual version, but really multilingual, uh!, not this roll so much as that of the AliExpress we speak Spanish, we speak Spanish and sometimes we try to speak English. [[Laughter]] No, no, bilingualism, real multilingualism: we speak English, we speak Spanish, we speak English, we speak Portuguese... Let's go! If we get, even German, if we need it. [[Applause]] So, let's go to trouble, pay attention, please!, lesson one, Greek nationalism for dummys. Nationalist bloc — please, let us retain the concept — Nationalist Galego. Companions, Nationalists, neon lights. [[Laughter]] Indeed, we are a block, we are nationalists and we are Welsh. [[Applause]] Nationalist, that is, we defend Galician national sovereignty. And you're going to ask yourself, Galician-galego, that you listen to us from the other side of the screen: what does that mean? For basically we defend the right of self-determination, the national sovereignty of our country, that you can decide for yourself as a Welshman, you, me, and us, to be able to decide freely and democratically our future, we will go!, as we organize ourselves socially, economically, territorially and politically, as we want things to eat. [[Applause]] How do we bring this to the mundane, to the day-to-day, basically and to understand, Galician-galeg that you hear us from the other side of the screen? So you can decide whether the electric wealth that generates your mountains and your rivers comes to the service of the general interest and the development of this country or serves to keep the business of the people's friendly electricity companies, the gentleman who hugged Feijóo there in the Opradoiro, the goggles, Mr. Galán, the Iberdrola business, that's it! [[Applause]] Or one thing, look at, picking up the anachronistic concept, well from the last century, because having a train with an electrified track that connects because — I don't know — ports and airports — multilingual version — like any European country that wants and deserves such a name. [[Laughter]] And to control -- I know -- the infrastructures of this country, an AP-9 gallega and free of toll, basically, you don't have to walk crying to a government that is approximately like a few hundred miles away from your home. [[Applause]] In short — that is for dummys, basically — I will repeat it again in case there is any delay here on the right-hand side: we are nationalists of Galicia!, we have defended Galicia's national sovereignty since 1982, we have brought it into our name. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] For more information, bng.gal. They don't forget to subscribe to our social networks and give the campaign to be informed of the latest news. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Because you see, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they are so obsessed, but so obsessed, lords of the People's Party, so much for caricature the BNG, which end up being quite ridiculous -- I'll tell you -- you, a meme of yourself. And I also tell them, who saw them and who saw them! They stayed in this. I'd ask them: they want something more, really, they want something more! They stayed here in a caricature, which didn't even dare bring the initiative that announced to us the bomb and dish around the press, and we're going to vote for the last time — oh! — the same thing we voted for since I was here because -- I don't know -- like about 50 times. [[Applause]] They'll have to explain why. I don't know, fear is free, I don't know, what they want. I suppose there's some tactical objective behind all this, that a preclared mind thought there in the political direction of the People's Party. I, on behalf of the BNG, would ask them for something, since we're embroiled in this Christmas spirit. I'd ask them to keep moving, not half a millimeter of this strategy, not half a millimeter. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Bring this one, another one, I don't know, put the mask in the hall, the neon lights at Christmas, whatever they want, but they bring all the initiatives they can and want like this one. They go on, because just like me, really, that someone who's told all this must believe the smartest of all, the same way he thinks it's affecting us, harming us, worrying us. On the contrary: it's fantastic. And I also bring them — now that we are at Christmas — a gift, a gratitude on behalf of the parliamentary group, but — most importantly — on behalf of the National Executive of the BNG: thank you. Because being at the heart of the political debate, as it corresponds to the first political force of the opposition and alternative government that represents the BNG, would be very difficult if it had not been thanks to its invaluable support. And in addition, these initiatives for the BNG are a win win, a win win, because, in addition to putting us in the center of political debate, they do so in terms where, man!, any nationalist organization would want. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] For 25 pesetas, answer again: What do you think a nationalist organization wants to talk about? National sovereignty? [[Murmurs.]] It is an absolutely win for us, we focus the political debate, and we do it in the framework, in terms of La Coz, which we are most interested in. [[Applause]] But he also has another eventuality, and it shows that they are nervous, concerned and a little scary, especially since the elections were held last year 2020, but especially after the National Assembly of the BNG. And you will be asked, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why we are worried. Because basically you see that more and more Greeks and Greeks, of all kinds, diverse as are the Greeks and the Greeks, more and more people see the alternative that the BNG represents for this country, that we are the political force capable of driving the change that this country needs, with sovereignty, of course yes, with sovereignty, with political power, with decision-making capacity, because we are an adult people, able to make decisions for ourselves, without guardianship and your aunt. [[Applause]] And to finish, I wanted to invoke again the commemorative spirit of the forty years of this chamber, to repeat what we said then. You're really confused who wants to turn Parliament into an empty shell, who can only call the debate, generate noise by disqualifying the opponent, because that only benefits anti-politics, it only benefits anti-politics. And I believe that in the last elections very especially the people of Greece, in their immense wisdom, as far as we know, left that anti-politics out of this chamber. You don't bring her here or her spirit. We, in the meantime — yes, comrades and colleagues of the BNG — face that noise, in front of that chandelier, in front of these attacks, work calmly, calmly, with a lot of restlessness and a lot of humor — that they never leave us — with clear ideas, with concrete plans and proposals, but, above all, with a very high head, eh! I'm telling you and I'm telling the people who listen to us on the other side. With the real pride and honor that he represents and is supposed to always defend the rights of this country and the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Never, never stop being what we are. [[Applause]] As the Tanjugueras said — and I take advantage of asking them for the vote for Eurovision — we have come to stay. Cheers, Earth, sisters.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u127	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil, thank you for the tone, don't you, more like the Comedy Club than a democratic parliament, but, anyway, it's a breakthrough, because we were used to a much more bitter BNG speech, and I think it's a breakthrough, isn't it? [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Do you know why there aren't thousands of Greeks worried about what you vote here today? Because fortunately a year ago the Greeks decided to give the People's Party an absolute majority so that you here can't decide the future of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, all of your intervention would be very funny if the reality was that when you competed for the European elections, you hadn't done it with the Republican Bildu and Left of Catalonia. [[Murmurs.]] You spoke in Spanish, and it seems to me very good, because I suppose it is the language that Ana Pontón uses to congratulate Arnaldo Otegi. Hey, Arnaldo, Happy Christmas, Arnaldo, Happy Christmas! [[Laughter]] Give your memories to the Barcelona command. [[Applause]] That is the grace that makes us all the reality of Greek nationalism, which deals with the most radical nationalism in all Spain. Arnaldo, happy Christmas! and memories at the command of Barcelona. Those are your partners, with whom you compete in European elections, share lists with them; that's reality. [[Murmurs.]] It would be very funny if, a few days ago in the Spanish Parliament, your representative, Nestor Rego, did not scream what Galicia would soon be an independent and sovereign republic. You came here once again to conceal, to make me not what I really am. That's the reality. And, therefore, look! if you are very happy, you have never won elections in Galicia in the democratic history of our country, we, too, because you would be a real problem for our community. By the way, I'm glad it's about hugging AP-9, because there's a lot of people here talking about the napkin. So, I guess that's the generational change, but little more, because then you're the most radical of nationalism. [[Murmurs.]] Look, when I was here at the BNG I was commanding José Manuel Beiras, the partners were Convergence and Union and PNV; now I'm Republican Left and Bildu. You represent the most dangerous of the breakaway nationalism in our country. They repeatedly refuse to condemn the use of violence. That's the reality. They share acronyms, they share candidatures with parties that pay tribute to the stage when they leave prison. That's the reality of BNG. And, therefore, I don't know the jokes that you come to tell today here and so funny that it is. For the Comedy Club is very good, but the reality of nationalism is that you represent a nationalism that is unable to condemn the use of violence in 2021 and a nationalism allied with Bildu, gentlemen. So, happy Christmas, Arnaldo!, give your regards to the Barcelona command. That's Mrs. Ana Pontón's BNG in 2021. [[Applause]] Mr. Orange, you're tired of talking. I started my very moderate intervention, and the truth is, I'm invited to change my tone. You, what about the Vox section of the Galician People's Party? There is no Vox section here. Our president, when he presented himself to the elections, said he would never compromise the German Government with Vox. I think I have as much future in Vox as you do in PSdEG-PSOE. [[Murmurs.]] What do you want me to tell you? He says to support the Constitution is to come here and look for broccoli. No, the problem is, why can't you support the Constitution without cracks? That's the reality. Mr. Orange, I understand that you are at a time when you feel politically disappointed in your own party by your own companions, and I understand the tone and justify it in that situation that you are living, and therefore I do not accept the criticisms you make from the party that presides over Mrs. Carmela Silva. Look, the state of autonomy is a federal model, it's a federal model. No, no, it's just that you claim to be a federalist. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's that the state of autonomy is a federal model; it's more, more decentralized than most states that say federal. I'm very concerned about your amendment, Mr. Orange, I'm very concerned about you. Because you propose two changes in your amendment. The first is to change "rejection" for "we don't share". You are not able to plant yourself towards the independence that represents BNG and represents Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia. Why aren't they capable? Because they live in it, because they are those independentists who want to break up Spain those who support them to follow the government. And so you can't say you refuse, you can say we don't share. Hey! I'm going to get you warm, what a way to act! Where is the Socialist Party? The second question you want to change. Shame. You propose to change "all Spaniards" to "the citizenship of the whole state." But what's the matter? From the Socialist Party you can't say the word "Spain" or "Spanish"? But what are they ashamed of? Where is the Spanish Socialist Workers Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u129	Mr. Aranguena, you broke Spain's idea that the initial socialists had. You rule in Spain... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u131	... thanks to independentists who do not condemn the use of violence, thanks to independentists who pay tribute to them on Saturday afternoons when they leave prison.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u133	That's, unfortunately,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u135	...the context of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, here in Galicia or PSdEG-PSOE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u137	...who presides over the Honourable Carmela Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u138	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u139	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u140	You don't accept the amendment, do you? Mr. Tellado, don't you accept it? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's move on to the next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Pérez López and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union to plan and implement the funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan to self-government and companies affected by the Covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u141	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u142	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u143	... concelerator and municipal spokesperson of the BNG between 1995 and 2012 in the Pebra do Caramínal, provincial deputy and spokesperson of the provincial group from 2007 to 2011, member of the Coruña in the Congress of the Deputies of Madrid from 2012 to 2016, Member of the XI legislation. You've been defending Galician and Galician people all your life in the province, the county and the state, and you're going to continue to do so — I'm sure — in the German government that will chair the first woman, Ana Pontón. Others lack your curriculum and, as far as recent times are concerned, your political future. [[Applause]] Go ahead, mate! [[Applause]] With this initiative — and already coming into question — what the BNG Parliamentary Group is looking for, first of all, is for the Board to take how many measures are necessary to ensure that not only one of the 140 million euros that constitute the budget of the so-called Fourth Plan of Rescue of the Galician Union must be returned to the State Fair and thus be distributed in its integrity between the Greek business fabric, which so much needs these money. Secondly, what we want is a unanimous pronouncement of this Parliament so that the Union will promote a bilateral commission, in which the Union and the State are present, with the aim of planning and executing the state-wide approach funds corresponding to Galicia within the framework of the European funds, addressed to autonomous, professional and business persons affected by the hedge-19. But it is necessary to contextualize and make a small journey by the event since the state and autonomous administrations had to articulate direct aid lines for the autonomous and pemese of this country. It had to be nine months since the beginning of the pandemic so that the board would articulate the first line of direct aid directed to autonomous people and pemes. And it will not be because the BNG Parliamentary Group has not repeatedly claimed them both in full and in commission and through various initiatives. And we did it because we know how to listen, and at the different meetings held with the associations of autonomous people and pemes they conveyed to us that what really drowned them was a situation of lack of liquidity derived from restrictions that in most cases did not allow them to carry out their professional activity and, therefore, billing, while they kept accumulating the current expenses they owed themselves, they worked or not. These aids, which could inflate the air to thousands of Greek businesses in a critical situation, we also call them the Spanish State and the Galician Union, who has competences and budgetary capacity to articulate them. But for nine months neither the state nor the Galician Union have taken real and effective measures to help small and medium-sized enterprises and autonomous people in our country. And that's something that turns out to be incomprehensible to me. I've been in this parliament for just over a year, but I can assure you that every one of the initiatives we have put forward in this area since the parliamentary group, from the BNG, they've been looking for effective measures by the German Government to alleviate the grave situation of businesses and self-employed people who make up the German business fabric. And we do it after we meet on multiple occasions with the representatives of the sector, all of us. Because meeting is good, but if, in addition to meeting, if you listen to those who suffer and first-hand know the specific problems of each sector, the measures that can be taken will always be much more effective. Because during those nine months of the year 2020, Mr Feijóo's and the Central Government did nothing but try to excuse a shameful inaction, giving the other the responsibility to help the sector. The Union, which, as the restrictions affecting the activity were imposed by the State, was the State which should open aid lines, and the State, which corresponded to the autonomous governments to articulate those aids. And in the meantime, the house without barrier. While the Union and the state played this shameful political tennis game, 1.6% of the companies that make up the German business fabric disappeared for lack of help. 1.6 %, of course, but if we turn it to numbers, it's 3,156 companies, according to the balance sheet of the Central Business Directory (the Dirce), published by the National Statistical Institute; 3,156 families who have been deprived of their business. Demolitional data which, given the performance of one administration and another administration, demonstrate that neither of them has been able to meet the circumstances and of what they were required, legitimately, by the Italian autonomous pemens and people. And don't come to us with that Junta was the first to articulate direct aids and pamphlets of these that you often say, because the lines and programs articulated from March to November for the productive fabric of this country had a lot of propaganda and very little cash. The reactivation plan for hospitality and culture is already April, it seems that in Plistocene, it was harsh and pure propaganda, which left out many of its recipients and contained measures, in the form of soft credits, that they did not have a great acceptance precisely because of the fear of their recipients to be indebted to the uncertainty of the situation generated by the pandemic. Besides, this plan did not contain a single line of direct aid, as the sector demanded. Others, with more acceptance, but which were also not direct aids, such as digitization aids, demanded a prior disbursement for the project and execution of it, and the worst of all, was that those who requested them had to postpone 100% of the disbursement and had to wait more than ten months for the Igape to pay the remaining 50% of the subsidy, almost a year to charge that advance part, which is unjustifiable in view of the situation of the most serious liquidity in the sector. The evil so-called rescue plans I and II, although they were more agile when sending the aid to the recipients -- there's no problem in recognising it -- they were patches that don't make up for so many months, accumulating expenses and losses. For all this, from the BNG we asked, first, that the Board open direct lines, as other communities have done, and then we also insist that the Board link up a genuine rescue plan, with sufficient economic resources, and that it also demand from the Central Government the adoption of fiscal measures of State competence. But none of that they did. The Greek Government preferred to remain installed in that irresponsible position of confrontation with the Government of the State, by supporting the guidelines of Genoa, which in no way benefited our country, and without working to create an inter-administration understanding climate that generated constant channels of communication to take effective measures that took into account the particularities of the Galician business fabric and thus achieve the really important, that economic approaches that could come into the Spanish state within the framework of the European funds would reach those who needed them, the small and medium-sized Galician companies and the autonomous people of our country. If it took Junta nine long months to articulate a line of direct aids, the State ones took longer. More than a year after the beginning of the pandemic, it is when the Royal Decree Law 5/2021, which actually provided for a line of direct but finalist state aid, was published, since they could only be destined to meet the debt and payments to suppliers, financial and non-financial creditors and fixed costs, as long as and when they were coming during the pandemic, assuming, in our case, Galician Board, the processing and handling of requests. On the basis of another royal decree, 6/2021, which allowed it, the Board extended to all activities classified in the CNAE and which were excluded, in any case also excluding financial activities, and taking other measures to simplify the requirements. On the basis of this, the Government of Greece extended the III Rescue Plan, which was subsequently amended by an order of 12 June 2021 to correct evasa contained in the initial call, referred in particular to eligible costs and to extend the deadline for the application. This was a rescue plan of EUR 234 million, which comes from the state and in turn from European funds. III rescue plan that did not work and remained 134 million euros without sharing in that call, which, if not implemented, will have to be reinstated to the State Fair. The Board announced with these unexecuted money, with 134, an IV rescue plan, which is obviously very good in newspapers but in practice is useless; an IV rescue plan that would seek, according to the Government of Greece, to increase the flexibility in management, allow access to new persons and entities to benefit and extend the period of coverage of aid, plan whose request deadline ended on 29 November. We still have to balance who can actually access these 134s, but of course, there's going to be an important amount of money that won't be executed. But why? Because precisely that plan, which was born in the state, did not contemplate the peculiarities of the Italian business fabric. We're different, we have our own particularities, a business fabric mostly integrated by companies that have no employees or have between one and two in template. And what's clear is that the capacity of the German Government so far to negotiate with the state and to achieve competitive bases according to the reality of the German business fabric is zero patatore. It's bad for the state, which has set requirements for access to funds that do not take account of our business reality; it's not worth coffee for everyone. And bad to Junta, who is unable to look for channels of consultation with the Government of the State to ensure that European funds that can reach Galicia through the State benefit those who owe, the pemmes and the autonomous people of our country. That is why we are presenting this initiative, which is what we are looking to adopt immediately, after dialogue with the representatives of the self-employed and professional persons and companies affected by the cover-19, the measures that are necessary to ensure that all state-run funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan remain in Galicia. It is not the situation for Galicia to lose neither a euro of these funds, for a sterile and shameful confrontation between the Central Government and the Greek Government. And if it happens, it'll be a shared responsibility between PP and PSOE. Secondly, and towards the future, to promote a bilateral Galician-State Joint Commission in order to plan and execute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u145	...—I am now finished, President—the state approach funds that will correspond to Galicia within the framework of the European funds, precisely to take account of the socio-economic reality of our country in regulating the arrival of European funds, and so we will avoid situations as gross as this initiative motivates. And yes, we're talking about a bilateral commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u147	...because Galicia is a country with different characteristics and idiosyncrasy from the rest of the Spanish state. The German business fabric is a reflection of that reality. It's not worth coffee for the whole state; we're nation, we're country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u149	They have, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the courage to take on it and thus truly defend the interests of the autonomous people and the Welsh pemmes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. You've got another shift later so you can continue. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The World Health Organization declared on 11 March 2020 the global pandemic caused by covid-19. The speed of events required that governments at both national and international levels have to take a number of measures to protect people's health, contain disease progression and strengthen the public health system. Among these measures that have had to be taken in almost all countries were, initially, total confinement, in which virtually all economic activity was paralysed, except those considered essential; and, from then on, with greater or lesser intensity, partial closures in certain activities, reductions in outlets or restrictions on mobility, circumstances that led to, at the same time as a health crisis, an economic crisis and a social crisis of unknown dimensions so far. The Government of Spain, from the very moment of the declaration of the alarm State, has put into operation a powerful plan of shock of economic and labour measures, initially estimated at over 200,000 million euros, to protect companies, to protect self-employed people — who, for the first time in the face of a crisis, have covered the Government of Spain in the face of the paralysis of their activity or by the decrease of their incomes — to protect workers and workers through ERTEs, to prevent massive destruction of jobs, the deployment of teleworking, the remunerable remuneration, the improvement of protection of the unemployed and of workers with temporary contracts or the implementation of measures for the household workers, and also to protect the most vulnerable persons, through the approval of the minimum vital income and the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage. The economic support of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to Galicia to alleviate the effects of the pandemic has been translated into a series of economic approaches that have been transferred to autonomous communities and that in the case of Galicia are, among other things, EUR 735 million from the Fund covered to address the effects of the pandemic on education and health and to compensate for the decrease in income in municipal archives; EUR 272 million from the Feder funds that the State has negotiated with the European Union for extraordinary health expenses, EUR 353 million from the React-EU funds corresponding to EUR 2021, EUR 17 million from the Special Social Fund to minimize the social impact of the pandemic, EUR 828 million from the Extraordinary Fund approved in July this year at the Tax and Financial Policy Council and EUR 234.5 million to grant direct aid to self-employed and businesses affected by the crisis of the Covid-19. Resources that form part of a wider European aid package that should be designed to strengthen education, health and social services, but also to support women and self-employed people. During these twenty-one months, several activities were most adversely affected by directly affecting the measures, absolutely necessary, that had to be applied in order to prevent the spread of the virus, such as trade, tourism, hospitality, leisure and culture, and mainly affecting self-employed people, pemes and micropemes. And in this last strike we're living in, we're seeing that with the increase in the daily incidence, lunches, dinners, lodgings or participation in other activities are being cancelled. And we see how today's press reports say: the invoicing of the hostel has fallen to nearly 2,000 million euros in Galicia since the beginning of the pandemic, or a few days ago we were told that the invoicing of the hostel closed 777 companies. In view of this situation, the Government of the State initially released different packages of measures, providing them with liquidity, through public-aid credits, moratoriums on their main tax debts, repayment of credits and payment of contributions; actions to reduce their fixed and variable costs, through direct aid for the payment of wages and social contributions by their workers; various relief measures for the payment of rents, providing them with income through an extraordinary allowance for self-employed persons; and transfers of resources to autonomous communities so that they could provide direct aid to companies most affected by health decisions taken in their territory. Since, in the face of reality and the need for these autonomous companies and workers to receive direct aid, on 13 March of this year, the Government of Pedro Sánchez published the Royal Decree Law 5/2021, of extraordinary measures to support business solvency, in response to the pandemic of Covid-19, which provides for a line of direct and finalist aid in which beneficiaries are self-employed persons and companies with a drop in volume of operations of at least 30% in 2020 compared to 2019 and whose activity was included in any of the codes of national classification of economic activities set out in Annex 1 to the Royal Decree, and may be destined to meet debts and payments to suppliers, financial and non-financial creditors and fixed costs, whenever and when due between 1 March and 31 May 2021 and they originated with contracts prior to 12 March 2021, and assuming their own autonomous processing and management of these funds. The Royal Decree provides for the corresponding transfers to each territorial entity from two extraordinary credits: one, of EUR 5 billion, for autonomous communities and autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla; and another, of EUR 2 billion, for Balearic Islands and Canary Islands alone and exclusively, for which they have the greatest dependence on tourism. Subsequently, the State, through Royal Decree 6/2021, amended the actual previous decree, enabling autonomous communities to be able to grant aid to other self-employed persons and companies particularly affected in their territory and other than Annex 1 to the Royal Decree. And then, on the order of 25 March, they specify the aspects for the definitive distribution of these 5,000 million euros between the autonomous communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, corresponding to Galicia 234.5 million euros for direct aid and pemes and autonomous; a fund which, in addition, was transferred entirely by the Government of the State to the Union of Galicia. Well, with this legal basis, the Galician Board published the Order, of 9 July 2021, establishing the regulatory bases of the Third Rescue Plan for self-employed persons, professionals and companies particularly affected by the cowardly crisis, by direct aid to support the solvency and reduction of the indebtedness of the private sector, within a month, from 14 June to 14 July, an order which had to be amended, on the one hand, to include activities that did not appear in the annex to the royal decree to which it referred and, on the other hand, to extend that deadline, reaching 30 September 2021. We lack the resolution and granting data from these approaches to Plan III, but we understand that the result had to be very small, since the Galician Union later published, on October 28, a new order in which they re-establish the Fourth Rescue Plan for self-employed persons, professionals and companies particularly affected by the crisis, and with an budget of EUR 134.5 million, that is, more than 57% of the total received fund, and extend the application deadline until November 29, 2001, and that they also wanted to be more agile. Well, about the end of the year, the Union of Self-Government Workers and Professionals reported that autonomous communities have to return a very important part of these funds that have not been executed, and in the case of Greek, the amount of nearly 140 million euros, and, as I said before, more than 57% of the total fund. In the face of the obvious failure of the execution of these funds by some communities, among which Galicia finds itself, in this reality, and with the branch that these funds are not lost and reach most of the beneficiaries, because the Government of the State has also issued a new royal decree that amends the initial, extending the delivery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u153	...of funds not executed until June 30, 2022. So we understand that, although sometimes it's true that the situation is new, the situation requires a lot of things about which we haven't had much experience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u155	...but we believe that the Government of the State has been to support both companies and workers at all times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u156	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u157	And at that moment it must be the Council of Galicia that axillizes and implements how this funds will be distributed so that Galicia won't be lost.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u158	Your time is up, Mrs. Rumbo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u159	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, spokesperson for the PSdeG-PSOE, a party that presides over the Honourable Mrs. Carmela Silva, look, just go to the hemerotheque of recent months to check how, generally, from many professional associations of self-government from all over Spain have criticized, firstly, that the Government of Spain has not been involved in the post of aid and that the Government of Spain has arrived late and has also failed. And, therefore, they know the autonomy of the whole country — when I say country, I say Spain, Mrs. Rodil — that, if anyone has provided help for the collective, they were the autonomous governments, I don't even say to the Union, all the self-governments, and who has never been the Government of Spain, and came late, and when he arrived, in addition, setting the requirements of impossible compliance by the autonomous. And that's what explains everything that's happened. In any case, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, this is what you and I know, too, the voicer of the Nationalist Block Galego, but don't worry: the BNG spokesman won't criticize her, he won't criticize the PSOE, because they belong to Mrs. Ana Pontón's group of bakers. They come here to make the choirs of the Socialist Party and they are able to come here to criticize the Union of what the Government of Spain does not do; they do it every day. So you're calm, you're off the debate, because this isn't against the Government of Spain. Even if it's the responsibility of the Government of Spain, don't worry: the BNG won't criticize the Government of Spain, they come here to make the choirs. [[Applause]] For that they rule in the deputies, for that they have, for example in Lugo, more advisers than you mayors across the province. That's Mrs. Ana Pontón's BNG, a group of bakers. Look, since the beginning of the pandemic, Junta has taken measures to support all the economic sectors most affected by the coward, trying to respond to their needs, urgent needs, and dealing with the lack of stability is the uncertainties that the Government of Spain was offering in each of the performances and non-actions in the early moments of this pandemic. This was the objective of the Economic Reactivation Plan, EUR 3,000 million mobilised from the first moment — public and private investment — with which the Galician Union was one of the first autonomous communities to develop direct aid plans and financial facilities for those affected by the pandemic. Subsequently, the Galician Union developed the first two rescue plans, fully covered with autonomous funds; the Galician Union, the first. 180 million euros in aid, eighty thousand applications answered. The Galician Union, the first, Mr. Pérez López, the first. One of the main keys to its success, the success of these two first plans, was the flexibility of the requirements that existed for the Galician Union, which allowed it to reach many more affected by the pandemic and that almost all the aids offered were executed. On the contrary, it was then the Third Rescue Plan, set up with funds from the Government of Spain, which had to be managed according to the strict criteria set by the Government of Spain, and, for these reasons, the balance of that III Plan was much lower than all the previous ones signed by the Council of Galicia. In that III Plan there were 5,912 applications registered, 93 per cent less than those that came to the first two plans, and aid was executed for an amount of EUR 57.7 million. With the aim of reaching more people and using that money, which, if not, would have to be returned, on October 28th, a new call for aid to sectors most affected by the hideout with the remaining funds of that III rescue plan was published in the DOG, constituting what is known as the IV rescue plan. We are referring to this Fourth Rescue Plan EUR 134 million, which was not distributed in the Third Plan because of the rigidity of the requirements imposed by the State. So far, 5,428 applications have been submitted, according to our latest data, to this Fourth Plan. And, at the insistence of Galicia, of the self-employed, of the entrepreneurs, the Central Government made up to three corrections to the initial decree, extending the period to charge the debts to which aid may be allocated, which must have been contracted between 1 March 2020 and 30 September 2021, and providing that the money may be intended to compensate for fixed costs not covered in respect of which it was incurred during that period, and not only for debts. And that's the situation of this Fourth Plan. The main problem with which we found ourselves from the autonomous communities, and so there were many fewer requests in the government-funded plans, was the requirement to have debts contracted to be able to opt for such aid, which, as Galicia and other autonomous communities have already warned, discriminates against the vast majority of self-employed people, who have made great efforts, precisely to avoid those debts. It is because of such issues that we have been calling on the Government for months since the Government and the comprehensive management of these aid from the Autonomous Community, which is also what the European Union recommends and is also committed to — and has not complied with — the Government of Pedro Sánchez, and allowing us, in addition, the freedom to establish more flexibility in the criteria for granting aid. So if the 3rd Plan didn't work, if the 3rd Plan left 130 million euros without sharing between autonomouss, it's because of the clumsiness of a central government to which the situation of the autonomouss of our country was more or less concerned. And now, in this Fourth Plan, we are trying to be able to grant such aid thanks to this flexibility of criteria to which the Government has had to access the request of certain autonomous communities and also the request of professional associations of self-employed people. Look, we've developed a lot more self-help throughout this period. Faced with these inefficient and opaque plans of the State Government, the Galician Union has been working for a long time on measures to support self-government. During the year 2021, the self-employed had several aids reaching more than EUR 20 million: the autonomous bond, with EUR 5.5 million to support the consolidation of EUR 3,000; the programme for the promotion of self-employment, with support for the start of activity, with an budget of EUR 11.2 million; incentives for the consolidation of small new-created enterprises and enterprises qualified as technology-based employment initiatives, EUR 2.5 million; or the Bono Council, with support of EUR 12,000, to facilitate the reconciliation by motherhood or fatherhood of self-employed workers in Galicia. In addition, since the German Government, measures have been planned in the budgets of the Galician Union for the year 2022, budgets for self-employed people who, of course, voted against; if you are concerned by the autonomous authorities that these budgets have been voted against; and here is the self-employment promotion programme, with an investment of 12 million euros; the autonomous bonus, which is expected to be activated at the beginning of January, through 8 million euros, which will enable you to support up to 3,000 euros services and investments aimed at improving the competitiveness of self-employed businesses; or the Digital Enterprise programme, a new act that aims to support in addressing technological changes. These are the support provided by the Government of Greece for the year 2022, which you voted against yesterday. Let's see if you're worried about the self-employed who voted against all the measures envisaged in the budgets for the year 2022. But, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, do you know what they're going to do to favor the autonomouss from January 1st? Raise their taxes, raise their quotas to Social Security. That's what you support the autonomous, that's the reality. But don't worry, because the BNG comes here to blame the board of an ill-designed plan by the Government of Spain, a plan that, through requirements impossible to comply with for the vast majority of the autonomouss left autonomous waiting for that help that was essential at the time we launched the III Plan. It's okay. Because the deputy of the Nationalist Block Galego comes here to criticize the Union. You're calm, you're quiet, you're not going to criticize them. The III Plan did not work properly because the criteria established by the Government of Spain made it impossible for many autonomouss to meet the requirements. But it's okay, don't worry, the BNG comes here to blame the Galician Union for what hurts the Spanish Government. Nothing new under the sun. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u160	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u161	President. Mr. Tellado, you're so obsessed with BNG, that I think you haven't heard anything, nothing, nothing, from my intervention. I clearly said that if these plans failed, it was because of the Galician Union, but also the state. [[Applause]] Or do you want to happen, act like nothing happened? Everything they've done during the pandemic seems like it was best to achieve agreements or actions that were positive to the autonomous, and by when did they come from the state that money? Do you really think so? It's impossible for you to think so. You were then missing the truth; that is, you were talking about being the first autonomy in articulating direct help lines. That's not true! At three months of the alarm state declaration, direct help lines Andalucia, Aragon, Asturias, Balearic Islands, Catalonia, Canary Islands, Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha, Ceuta, Valencian Community, Stremadura and some other. Galicia, in those first three months, she didn't do anything. We had to wait nine months for the Galician Board, when he got tired of fighting and facing the State Government, to articulate a line of direct aid that would save at least the liquidity situation and the drowning in which he was living the best part of the Italian productive and business fabric. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Nine months! So you can't miss the truth. That's right, and there's no more; it's just that there's no back in the sheet. Another thing is that you repeat something else here again and again so that tomorrow is what may appear in the press... anyway, the reality is that, Mr. Tellado. There's no more. Then, of course, it's true, the plan that comes from the state through this royal decree did not contemplate the reality of the German business fabric, but we do know it, and you sure know it as well. 194,657 companies, of which more than half—103,800—are without staff; i.e., they are autonomous. 58,300 have between 1 and 2 staff workers, 33 companies with templates between 1,000 and 4,999 and 10 companies with more than 5,000. It's clear that the design of this state aid plan didn't contemplate the reality of Greece, and that's what I think you and us share. Or didn't we share that either? Good. [[Assentment.]] What does that mean? This is a demonstration that the solutions thought of as a centralist key, from Madrid to Madrid, are not good for our country. That's a reality. Mr Puy was speaking of the PP spokesperson, Mr Puy, in the budget debate, that asymmetric solutions were necessary for reactivation, depending on the type of company; and in that we agreed: different problems, different solutions. So why has Mr. Feijóo's board not been able to achieve that since the Central Government measures were taken that were really effective for the Italian business fabric? Perhaps because the German Government lacks ability to interact with the Central Government. And what's the reason for this? So he chose from the beginning of the pandemic for a tactic of confrontation and political wear of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, thus praying to the guidelines of the National People's Party of Genoa and acting in a sectarian and partisan way, rather than to rule thinking what is best for the Greeks and the Greeks. The Board of Faijóo, by vassalage and also by sectarianism, preferred to put his finger on the eyes of the central government for months, instead of looking for spaces of understanding, which would allow, in a moment of crisis as the current one, to reach beneficial agreements for our country. Would you like to come over here, Mr. Tellado? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, I think you've already spoken, haven't you? Now you'll have to listen... or you won't listen, either? You've never heard of me before in my intervention! You won't listen to me now, either? No, I'm asking. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm asking. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And do you know who pays the consequences of all this? Do you know who pays them? The autonomous people and the pemmes of our country. Because the problem is that all that money, or an important part of that money that can come from European funds, can go back to the State Fair, and that is a serious problem. And besides not having that ability to engage, which ultimately depends on two — it is true — Mr Feijóo's government lacks something vital to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, who are of political weight. And to have political weight there is first to achieve respect and above all ability to be heard and to be listened, of course. So, what's going on? That for this it is necessary that in those forums where decisions affect our country we are present, that the Greek Government be present to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, to influence the decisions that are made there and that affect Galicia. But to have political weight the only way is to sink into self-government and assume all the competences, and precisely the German Government of Mr Feijóo and the PP are not much for the work of taking on competence, not even within the current framework. So, what are you afraid of, PP gentlemen, to sit on a table and talk to the state equally in the defence of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks? Maybe they don't leave them from Genoa, and that affects Galicia's interests. BNG, fortunately, is not subject to state party orders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u163	All we owe is Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u164	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u165	...and to the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u166	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Take it easy! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] My duty is to protect those who are in the use of the word in the gallery, as I do with all of them. Therefore, I respect everyone and who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u167	With respect and education, I would also say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u168	Yes, that's why it's right. Then go and finish. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u169	...that sometimes shines by his absence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u170	What about the amendment? He needed to know what he was going to do with the PSOE amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u171	Yes, we're going to tell him now. As I said, the only way to gain that political weight is to advance in self-government and, of course, you won't. So what we are asking in this case is that they vote in favour of this initiative, which is an initiative that is the only one that asks for this, firstly, that all — the last euro of the money coming from European funds through the state — are left in Galicia; and, secondly, a dialogue table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u173	...to speak to the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u175	With regard to the amendment of the PSOE, we cannot accept it on one issue: because precisely the way to defend Galician interests is to have this bilateral dialogue with the State.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u177	That's our position. And your amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u179	...would face up to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u180	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by Mr. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Mrs. Noa Susana Díaz Varela, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the activities to be carried out at Junta de Galicia in relation to the school calendar for the course 2021/2022 of public schools
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u181	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. The non-legislative proposal presented today by our parliamentary group is not a question that arises as a result of our being concerned solely at the situation being given, but rather at a situation which concerns the associations of mothers and parents of students in this autonomous community and also at the trade union organizations representatives of the teacher, since it is understood that it is necessary to modify the school schedule of the current course, something that is in time, if there is the slightest will to solve this problem. A problem we can admit that there is no exclusive responsibility of the Council of Culture, Education and University as to its origin, but where there is an exclusive responsibility not to solve it. We're going to talk about the school schedule, and we're going to talk about a situation that concerns thousands and thousands of students, thousands and thousands of mothers and parents of students and also a few hundred less teachers than the past course, because they're no longer there, but they're also worried about them. [[Applause]] Indeed, on June 4th this year, the Order of May 19th approved the school schedule for course 2021-2022, this one where we are. And in Article 5 it provides, with regard to educational activities, that in secondary education, grading and vocational training, educational activities will be carried out between 15 September 2021 and 22 June 2022, and also — and this is important — that they will have the consideration of academic days for the effective provision of classes and those dedicated to the realization of final tests and evaluations of ordinary and extraordinary calls. Ladies and gentlemen, just so we're all aware of what we're talking about, I tell you that this is a June calendar, and that it's not a calendar for dunmies, that it's a standard calendar — I don't even expect what I'm called so even, and much less that I'm given some graphic design; it's a table where I highlighted in green color which days are the subject of this concern, because it's important that we keep it in mind. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a calendar with days marked in green color.]] This timetable, in Article 10, sets out on the evaluation sessions, that the regular evaluation of compulsory secondary education students — I will not talk about the bachelor's degree — and the final evaluation of first-class modules of basic vocational training courses will take place on 6 June, Monday. So — to understand us — the teacher has to have the results of his student's evaluation, as well as very late on the third day, the previous Friday — that is common sense —. Well, it says that from June 23rd, the extraordinary final evaluation sessions of compulsory high school students are to be held; June 23rd is this first day that is blank because it's not a school day. It is very relevant that the teacher's schedule establishes that between 6 and 22 June — the green zone — the teacher will undertake extraordinary tests and support activities, reinforcement, recovery, expansion and tutoring. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez marks that day in the calendar he shows.]] Okay, that was the stage. The Council of Culture, Education and University was tired of demanding the State, the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, which established a single framework, because, in fact, there were autonomous communities that envisaged that there was an extraordinary assessment for ESO and others in which it was not. And the Ministry, in fact, did what it had to do; that is to say, regulations on this matter; regulations that proved to be of little pleasure — oh!, surprise — of the Council of Culture, Education and University. And why? Because on November 17, 2021, this royal decree was published which I refer to in the initiative — which you know — which establishes that the evaluation will take place in a single session that will be at the end of the school course; therefore on June 22 – I do not take the calendar again because it is a standard role and ends up getting bored and lost in attendance –. It is well known the frontal opposition of the Council of Culture, Education and University to any aspect related to the development of educational legislation that comes from the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training; and in addition, it seems to us that it has more sectarian than proactive posture, looking for problems where there are no problems and magnifying any disagreements to prevent reasonable solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I, like you, have heard in this Parliament a member of the People's Party in the previous plenary session, in a debate that had nothing to do with education, saying that, as a result of LOMLOE, only those who can pay their children private education will have guaranteed quality education. One of the greatest barbarities I've heard about education! A real atrocity! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course legitimate to disagree, but it is dangerous to make certain statements. Verbal brutality, ladies and gentlemen — and we have unfortunately attended some more example of this verbal brutality — always distorts the debate, which we have certainly seen to put value on last Sunday at the plenary session of this House. And I really want to think — more than anything about a matter of public profiling — that these statements are a fruit of the fragrance of the debate, because — I repeat — I want to think that they do not respond to a fresh reflection. It would be worse if that statement was written, because we know that speaking can be a more or less reflective act; writing is always a reflective act, unless we want to write authentic barbarities. The fact is that the Council of Culture, Education and University leaves little place at this time to think that this situation will be corrected, because the website of the council itself says that the third quarter evaluations are maintained early in June and that the educational activity in the classroom is extended to 21 June - this I think is a mistake, because it would be 22, but well... -, just as it was already configured. He says, "The period between the third evaluation and the end of the classes for the possible final evaluation will be used for support and reinforcement to the whole of the student, so that the person who needs to acquire basic skills and the rest can continue to advance as a whole, thus achieving a better result." And universal hunger must also be abolished, and universal peace must be a shared goal. Yeah, sure! Of course, they must continue to advance all and achieve a better result. What's the problem with all this? The problem with all of this is that in that period between days 6 and 22 there will be centers where the teacher makes hidden assessments and others where not. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the calendar again.]] And that will break that sacrosanct equality that the People's Party always defends as a vertebrate element of our education system. And here, in this Chamber, there are, at least, two high school teachers I know who know I'm talking about something that's true, something that's going to be done in practice, because it's valued at the end and then there's another administrative evaluation that you don't know very well for what you're starting to give yourself these circumstances. The truth is, in this context, the absolutely reasonable, as demanded by mothers and parents and also by the teaching group, is that the Council amends the calendar. We are talking about a request that is being moved in this Parliament at the end of December, something that has to be applied in the middle and end of June. So there is more than enough time for, if there is a minimal will, to change that calendar, to get a little common sense, and to abandon that fear of being against all the regulations that come from the Ministry, we like it or we don't like it. I insist, it is legitimate to disagree, what is not legitimate is that, by keeping a position found at the orders coming from the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, if you steal nearly 7% of your lecture calendar, which is these 13 days in which you are going to be in the centers without knowing very well what to do in some cases, and knowing very well that you are failing to comply with the regulations in others. That's right, always with the goal of benefiting the student. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, despite being a boring subject — that I recognize — that is tedious — but that affects thousands and thousands of students and their families, we should be able to reach a unanimous agreement in this Parliament, because it is a matter of more will than of maintaining a nuclear position that nothing, at all, will benefit our educational system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u183	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u184	Thank you very much, President. "One of the dangers that arise every three years, with the arrival of the PISA reports, is to focus on evaluation rather than on education and measuring student performance rather than understanding their needs." This fragment, which is taken from a essay that I'm sure many of us from the guild know, education and power, from the American teacher Michael Apple, I think it might somehow be the synopsis of this debate that we're having. And I'm saying this because we noticed what he was saying, by putting the emphasis on evaluation before education. And this goes with the debate... well, of this, and that -- I hope you don't disappoint, Mr. Rodeiro -- we use education again as a tool that rallies against the government of the state and fails to meet the needs of our education system, the objective needs. It's a problem that grew up, and that grew up, as Mr. Álvarez had come to recognize in some way, like that of the bad-ass cow, didn't he?: cow's ill and jet's ill. Because we see what happens and what the succession of events is. July 4th of the year 2021. The Education Council publishes the Order of 19 May for which this school schedule is approved. In this instruction given by the Council, extraordinary tests are passed from September to June. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it does without talking to anyone, it does without convening the School Council -- there were hard reproaches on the People's Party for adopting this attitude -- and it does by convening a sectoral table where the participants themselves at that sectoral table are saying: the calendar is not debated, it is only approved. Consequences of this "macarada" which we are accustomed to by the Education Council, on this occasion by Mr. Mira Lema: the third evaluation will end on June 6th and until 21st there would be these supposed proofs of reinforcement and expansion. In addition, we have a course in which the first quarter has 71 days; the second quarter is 62 days; and the third quarter, until 3 June, 33 days. This without the consensus of families, without the consensus of the representation of the professor and without more will than the lap of the People's Party. And another consequence of this that Mr. Álvarez put forward is that he would open a sort of free bar to the centers so that it would somehow be done the undercover recovery criterion that he wanted. It's more, not just in the centers. In the same center, a subject could use that type of criterion and not another type. But, of course, if we go to what the families come to tell us about what happens with regard to this unilateral decision of the Board, it is that, as they themselves recognize, this is a problem created by two governments: on the one hand, the Government of Sánchez; on the other hand, the Government of Feijóo. And here comes the yawn, the second leg of this problem that comes into being and which means the perfect storm. Because the Council of Galicia unilaterally advances the examinations from September to June and the Government of the State what it does, with the normative development of LOMLOE, is to suppress these extraordinary tests. With which, the question would seem easy, would it not, if the important criterion were to solve the problems of the educational community? The question would be, what will girls and boys do in education for those three weeks? Because if they've passed the course, it doesn't make much sense that they're there, with those hours of reinforcement, you don't know very well for that. And if they've suspended the course, it doesn't make much sense that they're doing reinforcement tests either, if they're not going to have the chance to examine themselves and they already have the given note. But of course, with the possibility of confronting, who cares what happens to education, gentlemen of the People's Party? And it is true that in the drafting of the Royal Decree of Evaluation which has been published it could have been contemplated this reality, it could be done because it affected several communities, and the dictates of the Council of State we know that, according to the solutions proposed, it could have been different. And it's no less certain that there's an obvious delay in publishing the normative development of LOMLOE by the state. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who are very well to scandalize themselves, except that the last precedent we have with the Wert Law was much worse than the management of the times. But, in any case, it's a situation, it's an obvious objective problem that our students have. What does the People's Party do? - and here we are going to what you never miss a possibility of confrontation, so we take the rights of the student of our education system - - Sectoral Conference of Education. What did the councilman say despite the fact that we were based on a solution that the ANPAs and the professor's representatives were demanding? We're not going to touch the school schedule of this course, and June will be to strengthen content. Strengthen what, Mr. Roder and the People's Party lords? Less than a month of course, the curricula are not touched, and it's to reinforce the student who has suspended and has no alternative. To reinforce the student who approved and who will be in the class there...? Anyone who knows what the dynamics of class is knows you don't know very well enough for that. But let's go on, because the question is still a little bit more. Sectoral table of 16 December, Order of assessment. Look at what he's saying, in this case, Mr. Mira Lema, because I think it's something that's very close after what Mr. Feijó said this morning from the dissolute school and from a Mr. School. Wonderful that just introduced us. Look, Mira Lema, Sectoral Bureau of December 16, "This order is made to try not to apply the Royal Decree of Evaluation." The truth is, we think it's great, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they care about the Statute, the Constitution, but, to see... this loyalty, loyalty, because it doesn't look like it; that which you preach. Moreover, it has to do with what Mr Feijóo was saying this very morning about that, when electoral programs were about to fight an educational law, which was almost capable of the biggest of [...]. So here's the wrong thing done, and we have two options. The two options that were there were, on the one hand, adapting curricula. It is clear - and so it is moving the entire educational community - that at this point in the course it would be an unviable option. And the other one would be changing the school schedule. And this has problems, too. He has bureaucratic burden problems for the educational community. But logically, in a context like what we are, the student's right must be prioritized and that that student has the best time to be able to carry the educational project forward with the greatest success. Besides it would be an absolute sense to finish the course on June 6, when you can stretch to the 23rd of that same month, with the curriculum load that we know we have in our education system. Mr. Álvarez, I suspect you won't be very successful, but to see if this Christmas spirit can take steps in that direction. Our support, of course, will have it. In fact, we have a very similar initiative. But I suspect that here we are going to be in the debate of the pim, pam, pum, from time to time, of the general and generic approval of this evaluation order... by the way, the number of suspenders and repeaters of our country's data triples that of European data, and the People's Party seems to want our student to repeat more. The same could be said of the dropout rates. And it's very good that we have as reference what happens in Ceuta or in other realities of the state, what happens is that what you're telling us to OECD is that school dropout rates are about 50% below the targets that are marking us in OECD. So a little bit of rigour when we're selling the data. And, of course, People's Party gentlemen, let's stop comparing ourselves to the worst and try to think of this country a little bit big to get us out of the captivity in which our education system has. But let me remind you of what Mr Feijóo said to us. Yesterday a member of the People's Party came to say this about the request for student data we have requested. You know perfectly well that the data of this course is not published. The INE data is based on the previous course, and it turns out that this course — oh, by chance! — we have nearly a thousand less students and we have almost one hundred and fifty closed units — DOG of August 18 — of child and primary education. So I think it's very good to say that you can't lie in this Parliament, but let's apply the story. And above all, it's not -- to finish it -- to qualify us, I don't know, to make sure. For two questions: first, because for us this is an immense pride. It is an immense pride, in addition, that it is a national instrument like the pandeirite that it leads to these days, with so much dignity, our popular music and our language in the world ahead. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the second question is that today too, more than ever, we are proud to be pandereires, because I suspect some member of that bench will have the repenique ringing for some time after today's intervention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u185	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. This non-law proposal is unnecessary, because the Council always maintains institutional loyalty to the State. And within the framework of his powers, he has done what he has to do. He has already presented to the teaching sector bureau on December 16 the draft of the board's order to adapt the course's end to the actual decree imposed by the Central Government. The draft advance of the order by which the evaluation regulations update includes, in its last first provision, the modification of the Order of the school calendar for course 2021-2022. Galicia is an autonomous community that has always complied with state legislation, so it will develop the one set out in Royal Decree 984/2021 of 16 December, adapting the evaluation process and modifying the rules that are contrary to those laid down in this basic standard. So, Mr. Álvarez, you have no doubt that the educational centers and teachers at the educational centers will fulfill what they have to do. But today, in fact, we are debating a paradoxical proposal by the Socialist Party when the situation that needs to be corrected by some of the shipowners given by the Ministry. With this initiative it seems that the Socialist Party intends to wash the face of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, and precisely wants to turn the tortilla around to turn the Council into the head of a problem generated by the Ministry. And I couldn't miss Mr. Lourenzo's chorus of walkers. Yes, indeed! Look, ladies and gentlemen, in May 2021, in time and form, the Council approves the school schedule for course 2021-2022 with the recovery exams. In September, the Ministry talks about suppressing recovery exams, with an approved timetable, ladies and gentlemen. And then, in response to the demand of several autonomous communities, the Ministry accepts a moratorium, at the end of September. And in mid-November, the Ministry retreats in the moratorium. The government has deceived the autonomous communities. On Friday, November 12, he announced by surprise the third rectification of this matter and two working days later I approved it at the Council of Ministers, thereby increasing the lack of credibility and creating great chaos in teaching the fruit of an improvised decision and without any dialogue. The Socialist Party recries the frontal attitude of the Council's opposition to the ministry's vessels and the change of rules of a course that has already begun, ladies and gentlemen, when what is intended with this order is to overcome the regulatory failure that the Central Government is developing, which has committed itself to approving LOMLOE in full pandemic, with a timetable that does not progress in its development, in time, or in measures that conform to the needs of the educational system. And, of course, we've learned about the curricula through the constant filtrations that the Ministry itself is doing and that, of course, it is not concrete in the meetings that have with the autonomous communities, thus none of the communities. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what's wrong starts, it's not over, because it's barely started processing LOMLOE and it's wrong to apply it. We're talking about a law that was a missed opportunity to give up two years' work and over fifty attendances in Congress and Senate, and it's a missed opportunity to give up a so-called educational pact, as all the authorities have said, where it's necessary to have enough time. Look, it was a law that wasn't even informed by the Council of State and that even forgot about the technical professors of vocational training. Indeed, he forgot, because there was no time, because it was currency of exchange, eliminating the Spanish as a vehicle language for the independentists to approve the budgets and thus keep Mr Sánchez in the armchair, gentlemen. Look, with this law we even talk about politicizing education. But will there be more politicization in education, than now, for access to this body of inspectors, the access tests disappear? What is meant by this law, of course, is to politicize education clearly. All the bodies, and the European Commission itself, called for a monitoring report on education and training to "invest the time needed to build broad and lasting political and social consensus". This is something that has never been sought here, because the State's budgets should indeed be approved. So it's a law that doesn't improve ratios, that doesn't improve system funding -- Mr. Lourenzo, that you never talk about this -- that, when you talk about increasing ratios -- we're talking about a law that doesn't really improve anything, because the ratios are defined by law, and this law doesn't change them, nor does it improve them. So we're talking about a law, gentlemen, that goes against the culture of effort, promoting general approval. And here, in fact, there are those who think that approval is achieved without strengthening the system and without strengthening the students. Look, we mustn't confuse things. It is legitimate that the Council should not agree and manifest it, and even if it tried to change the situation by asking for the withdrawal of this royal decree. It is legitimate that the Council has a frontal opposition to this change of rules of play once the first partial evaluation in educational centres has been completed; that is, today the rules of the game are changing for a course that has already begun. And this, in fact, puts the whole system, the student, the family and the teacher into a compromising situation of uncertainty. But of course it's not something provoked by the Galician Union, which made several attempts to allow this measure to be transitory during this school year. This parliamentary group has registered a non-law proposal requesting the withdrawal of this royal decree, because it is a fruit measure of improvised development, as we have just said, and because it is a chapuza applying it to half the course, in which the curricula of the previous law still refuse; in addition it is unfair for the student to change the rules of the game. The abolition of central government-led recovery tests unilaterally and with the ongoing course is also a disastrous legal decision that is creating major uncertainties and chaos in the educational community, with the planned school schedule and the system of organized evaluation. Thousands of teachers are now going to have to change all their jobs, obviously harming the student, especially the most disadvantaged. The educational community itself received this royal decree with great discontent, because the vast majority of society defends recovery exams, ladies and gentlemen. On September 30th, an important survey was published in a national newspaper, where 73% is found to defend recovery tests, because removing them means lowering the academic level and disincentives the effort, gentlemen. [[Mr. Rodeiro Tato shows an inquiry.]] But if up to 66% of Socialist Party voters agree, and even 52% of Socialist Party voters refuse to remove these recovery tests! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality. With the model we have implemented right now by the State Government, school failure is not solved. School failure is not solved by consolidating general approval, school failure is not solved when it can be approved only to suspend, when it is equally important to study rather than not to study, when it can perform tests that do not do them. School failure is solved by promoting the culture of effort and not lowering the level below. The failure of the school will be resolved by launching the Recovery Plan, the failure of the school will be solved by a staff of 4,000 teachers to get Galicia to be the first most equitable and inclusive community in Spain, with that staff of 4,000 teachers and professionals to help, of course, those who need it most. The school failure will be solved by Galicia, the community of Spain, together with Extremadura, which most teachers have, Mr. Lourenzo. I know your reports and even the Ministry's data are bad for you. I know you don't like them, because you're constantly engaged in denigrating the education system. The contribution of his pandemic party was to summon and encourage a general strike to a government in functions. That's the bet you've made for the education system in this legislation, gentlemen. [[Applause]] But they have no doubt all the members of this House, because we are sure that this order will be processed in accordance with the procedure and in the most agile way possible; an order that aims to shield the standards of quality of our teaching, guaranteeing the student's right to have an objective assessment, and facilitating the teacher's work so that he can evaluate with criteria, certainty and legal certainty, as required by the centers and the management teams. So the ultimate goal of this order is to preserve the culture of effort, and from then on we have a good education system that, of course, dropped that school dropout rate in half in a decade. And I put it down halfway up the quality and bet on the culture of effort. Furthermore, Galicia leads at all points the results of PISA, and look, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is Spain's second largest fourth-place student in ESO. For all of this, we consider, as I said at first, that this non-law proposition would not be necessary. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u187	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u188	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Lourenzo, allow me to devalue the debate by taking a break. The Christmas spirit will give us the same. We'd already come in with this, so we didn't have much to expect anything to change. And you were right to say that it is curious that at this point in the course the Council has not published the statistical data, as you do every year, with singular skill and agility, about the month of October, more or less. In any case, in the absence of a toner, I show as proof document 1, which we do have, our parliamentary group, and that we can leave it to the Government of the Council of Galicia to issue that document. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the calendar already displayed.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Roder, your intervention was predictable. We already know what is written there and we already know the catalogue of arguments that the People's Party will spread to talk about something about a very specific aspect, as is something from the Order of the evaluation of the school schedule. So we're not surprised at all at all at all that you've said, which is not enough, beyond filling a part of your intervention with common places, false arguments and arguments that say there's a general approval. I don't know if the teachers here, when they go back to their classrooms, will give general approval. I don't think they've ever given it in any normative context, because the approved, Mr. Rodeiro, must win it; it must be earned with study and effort, and, of course, this law doesn't go against, beyond what you want to argue with the sole aim of destroying any progress in education. Because, moreover, Mr Roderio, I suppose that within the ranks of the People's Party there will be those with regard to education experts in our faculties of education throughout the state and also in the country - state reads Spain; country reads Galicia -. All right? [[Applause]] And since we have these education experts who advise us on what the curriculum model is, maybe they're not so wrong. Of course, there may be a pandemic of general ignorance that is now no longer in high school, but also in college. You're absolutely wrong in the way of education repetition. I will repeat that — speaking of repetition — what happens to the countries in which the course is not repeated? Are there hordes of ignorant, illiterate and affixed across the streets of those countries/states? Or do they have another model that works? Mr Roderio, a little serious in the debate. And look, I'll show you how what you say doesn't solve the problem. Indeed, as we also know, and even write, we know the processing of the draft of the Evaluation Order, and we also know that an additional provision introduces certain modifications. But I'm going to read the amendments -- because you didn't -- for this Parliament, and they're relevant. What's he saying? "The third assessment of compulsory secondary education students should be carried out from June 6th. If you're able to explain to me what the difference is with the previous one, unless you put a third, instead of a final evaluation, I would like to thank you. Second amendment: "The final evaluation session of compulsory secondary education students will take place from June 23rd." The same thing, it's the same thing. And as you come here to say, Mr. Rodeiro, that the Education Council, in an alarm of responsibility, of seriousness and answers to the problem of the education system, is going to make a change which, in practice, does not mean anything at all. Mr. Wheel, Mr. Wheel! [[Laughter]] Look, in order for you to take note — and the People's Parliamentary Group — that, in fact, it is a question of dealing with the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, I will only give you, in my time - if I have time - three strokes of which is the dynamic of opposition to this regulatory development. Mr. Marado didn't know if he touched the hornet, the panderete or the cat, but he told all the autonomous communities in which you rule that they would do everything possible to delay, torpedo, torpedo, bar, bar, bar, development and application of LOMLOE. What about the Education Council? [[Applause]] You have published a calendar modification command. For what? To tell him: Look married, as we answered: like an army. And what change was that? [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez waves with his hands.]] A question that was minute sin; it was a matter of dates in a part of the proceeding, but it was trying to cover the file. You were, a few days ago, the only parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies who voted against the new vocational training law, the only one! It's just that even if Vox abstains, which is also to point... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u190	It's over, Mr. President. And last night, in the vote of budgets at the Senate, his cheering voice went out there plethoracic, almost laughing -- because it was hard for the man to endure laughter -- saying that weakness was shown and that anything was worth to to torpedoing the Government. Look, Mr. Wheel, I, without being very religious, or rather saying anything, I hardly know if I recommend an exorcism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u192	...because you are, in some way, imbued or passed by by a evil spirit And I'm done, Mr. President; I appreciate your flexibility. It turns out they voted in favour of an amendment to support minority languages, when in another context they would have voted against twice, if necessary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u193	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Noa Presas Bergantiños and four other Members, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Central Government for the correction of the modification of timetables of the Avant A Coruña-Ourense train and the abolition of the Lugo-Ourense train, as well as the recovery of deleted lines
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u194	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u195	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. First I wanted to give a previous warning, because I see that the People's Party bench is still very angry. Don't worry. Look, I'm totally and absolutely arrhythmic, but on this bench, starting with Mrs. Ana Pontón, there are those who know how to play the pandereta very well, like herself, and we have many more music catalogues. [[Murmurs.]] That's what's got to be a front; we're very plireal, too, from the musical point of view. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] In any case, by going to the question of this initiative, we saw this week as thirty years after Sevilla arrived, after years of non-compliance, of lies and manipulations of government of the state, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, this Monday arrived the AVE almost to Ourense. I say this, I make that footnote, because actually, as your lordships know, with full technical conditions of AVE, comes technically to Taboadela, not yet to the city of Ourense. I know that the spread of provincialism sometimes leads us to use everything on the side, but it serves this to remember that it is still pending to implement the commitment of the outer variant of Ourense, so that the VA really reaches the city and from there to the rest of Galicia. It's not going to happen that within a couple of years we're watching the fourth presentation or inauguration of the AVE in this country. [[Applause]] Fortunately, the external variant, after a lot of social and political pressure, has already been weighed down this month, with delays, but finally weighed down. That's good news, especially after a minister of the People's Party, such as that lord, Inigo de la Serna, wanted to rule out her. In any case, we trust it to be a reality sooner than later. And I also take advantage of -- because there is in this full spirit, in the final part, of Christmas consensus -- to ask both the Union and the party that is responsible for the Government of the State, who feel the dialogue to get that, in addition to an external variant that is a reality, Ourense also has an intermodal worthy of such a name. [[Applause]] In any case, by going to the question, that finally approaches the fulfilment of the AVE undoubtedly is good news, but it highlights an important aspect in which we always insist and today we are going to do it again from the Greek nationalism, which is that the high speed price cannot be the obligation to renounce having a close connection worthy of our country's vertebrate. That, unfortunately, has so far been the history of our country: years of investment in AVE that were accompanied by disinvestment in the remaining internal network; decades in which we had neither AVE nor a decent train. And not only does Galicia today not have a nearby train or a nearby train, as if they have Cantabria, Catalonia or Asturias, but we have an obvious deterioration in this inner line; some because they haven't done, they haven't developed, and others because they've been leaving progressively. And we could put some examples. For example, Lugo, an isolated town that only has services to Ourense and the Crown, does not even have a connection to the capital of the country; Ferrol, who today has no proper connection to the Coruña to be able to take advantage of the line to Vigo; we can talk, for example, of the line between Vigo and Ourense, of the Mine line, which is practically out of use -- today it is impossible for a person living in Ribadavia and can go to work by train to Ourense or Vigo, for example -- the same situation has the neighbours and neighbours of the Irish or Carballino, who, if they go to Ourense or Santiago, will probably not be able to return on the same day. And we could put many other examples. My companion Mary Albert was able to come one day, in this legislation, by train to Santiago, but it wasn't the miracle of the peas and the fish. He was driving an hour and a half to Ourense, came by train and then, round and round, he came with me to the city of Ourense; if not, it would be absolutely impossible. And although Parliament was in Ourense -- I don't know whether to take advantage of it to make a suggestion to Mr Santalices there -- I still couldn't do it, because it's absolutely impossible to live on the street or on the Valdeorras boat and travel by train to work in Ourense for hours and services. [[Laughter]] I could throw it all morning by setting examples of that mess we've got across the country. And I want to point out that this is happening for one reason, because of that absolutely centralistic perspective in the development of the railway network, which is designed to connect us to Madrid, and it seems great to connect us to Madrid — which remains in record — but the problem is that we don't think about the other side, which is the connection we need within our country. And this is also seen clearly in a line like that of the Coruña- Santiago-Ourense, which exists because, fortunately, we're on our way out to Madrid; if not, it probably wouldn't exist. And go ahead, it's a great infrastructure, which allows for a few moments that are magnificent and with a very comfortable service. In normal circumstances, this should help people living in the Coruña, Santiago or Ourense to be able to work in any of these cities or to live or study in another city and to connect to a medium that favors the quality of life, that pollutes less, that avoids road sinality and that, in short, not only benefits us individually, but also collectively as a society. What's the matter? The problem is how things are organized. The three problems for which we will bring this initiative here today, to this plenary, can be summed up in three areas: The first and the most urgent one is the change of times this line has just suffered, and others side by side, such as the one that connects La Coruña to Vigo, which is the most used in this country, precisely by the arrival of the AVE. Time schedules have not been organized according to the needs of most people, but rather with regard to the connection to Madrid. Secondly, on the question of price — which we have discussed in this House at other times — which is still 60% more expensive than the Atlantic axis, and that turns that train ticket into a luxury product. And thirdly, because the lines suppressed with the vault were not recovered yet, for example, the 6.45 train, which connected Ourense to the Crown. I insist that the most urgent issue is the question of timetable changes for the arrival of the AVE. Many users and users have been collecting signatures these days, sending out press releases, contacting political organizations and mobilizing to avoid it, but unfortunately, since yesterday, schedules have changed, and that has had negative consequences. It's not the first time. In the previous amendment, there have also been many damaged collectives, but this time there are issues that are bloody. The most striking and most popular is that the delay of one of the trains that earlier left the Coruña, who was coming to Ourense at 7.38, because he has an advance that prevents or leaves many people who are going to work up to this city. It's an example, we could put others. You've also disturbed them in the connection back between La Coruña and Santiago and Ourense, etc., etc. In any case, I want to leave here a very simple reflection, which is that for people who are going to Madrid on time, probably half an hour or 40 minutes is not a significant change for those who go for a labor obligation that probably anticipates in time or for those who go for a tourism or leisure issue, and the same in reverse direction. But for people who use this means of transport for their work hours, to go to their teaching center, etc., it's a very important disorder. So the only thing you ask for is an adaptation that gives priority to this reality, to the people who use this means of transport most of the time; that pushes that internal connection and has a suitable schedule to meet other needs. We are aware that it will never rain the taste of everyone and that vital and laboral schedules are of all kinds, but we believe it is obvious that if you favor that at the first hour of the morning, at the last hour of the morning, at the first afternoon and at the last afternoon there may be adequate connections, because this covers an important part of society, the most common, most frequent hours of work. Secondly, we insist on the question of price. This Parliament has already reached an agreement in 2018 driven by this parliamentary group to demand from the Central Government the reduction of these prices that are absolutely abusive, 60% more expensive in this line, for example in the Atlantic Strip, when, in addition, it serves an area with many needs, such as Ourense, and which is also compulsory for public service; that is, it is also financed by our taxes and therefore should be protected in this area as well. We insist that the better service there is and the more competitive, the more users there will be. History shows that since the start of the walk, this line has not ceased to grow on travellers; no year has ceased to grow on travellers, with the logical exception of the year 2020 for obvious reasons, due to the reduction of lines due to the pandemic. Therefore, we understand that it is a question that as a country we must continue to claim, and I trust that today for responsibility and also for a complaint against this country we are able to reach all political forces to reach an agreement, as happened in 2018, and that this time the Central Government is meeting these demands. In 2018 with Rajoy and later with Pedro Sánchez were neglected, and we hope that this new demonstration of consensus from the German Parliament will be rectified. And finally, we insist that, too, even if there's going to be more frequencies on this line, and that's positive, there's a question that continues to be pending from the beginning of the pandemic, which is to retrieve that 6.45 train, which was connecting Ourense to Santiago and Coruña, which also served many workers and workers and that since then they're getting organized by cars or buses, or some even had to change their place of residence and so they could favor this situation over. I'm done. This week, in that welcome episode, Mister Marshall, we were listening to a transport minister who is abducted by the planetary centralism and what we were told was that we had stopped being isolated and in a fog of what Valle-Inclán was talking about. At last, we were here the Greeks and the Greeks in the cave, with rugs, without civilization, until the AVE came cheering, less bad!... Anyway, it's better to laugh, but the story is sad. In any case, I want to take the opportunity to shine once more to Valle-Inclán, because I remembered that piece of Bohemia Lights Max said about "the tragedy of ours in this tragedy," and Don Latino replied, "Well something will be," and Max answered that "the spook." As soon as the entry into operation of a service that must give us opportunities and the ability to compete brings these kinds of problems is an absolute spook. So I hope that today we can have an agreement that will help overcome it. And AVE, yes, but a worthy AVE, and also with dignified and fair prices, and that we may also have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u198	...in this country, because it's the least we have to demand. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliament's in Ourense has come to talk, eh! it's no joke. [[Laughter]] A long time ago, but, well. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u200	Thank you, President. We, too, – right, Olalla? – we are going to demand that Parliament be brought to our province, that Parliament be brought to Lugo. Well, out of play, for us, the socialists, the arrival of the AVE to our autonomous community since then that's a reason for joy, and I think that for all the Greeks and for all the Greeks. Today the Galician Nationalist Block seems to want to have very good internal connections in our autonomous community, but it also doesn't seem to mind that we are connected to the rest of the Spanish state. I think it's a good news that we're connected for the first time, with a high-capacity track, with the Meseta, but this, of course, doesn't mean there's not much to improve in this inner connection. Even Mrs. Presas referred to the fact that the AVE did not reach Ourense, which only arrived at Taboadela, and it was obvious that this external variant had just been tendered for 112 million euros. At the beginning of his intervention he put the point in Taboadela and said he had a lot to do. Well, that's if you're working and it's something you haven't been working on, of course, Mr. Rajoy's previous governments. It is a arrival, from high speed to our autonomous community, which is true - and there I agree with Mrs. Presas - that is very late, very trapped, but the truth is that at last it is a reality, thanks to the commitment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to this infrastructure. [[Applause]] The arrival of Galicia of AVE is a very important socio-economic opportunity for Galicia, and among all administrations it must work together to optimize the use of this potential and to address, of course, the pending tasks to make AVE a strategic piece in the future of Galicia. Today the president of the board said here, in this House, that the AVE only reached Ourense and did not reach the rest of the cities of Galicia. Right, that's true, but it's also true that he arrived to Ourense despite all the delays caused by two Greeks in Madrid, despite all the delays of Mr. Mariano Rajoy and Mrs. Anne Pastor; and, by the way, with the coming of Mr. Feijóo with this abandonment and with the delays in this infrastructure. And, of course, now he comes here to tell this House Mr. Feijóo that the AVE does not reach the other Greek cities. [[Applause]] Well, maybe this would be a reality or would be very close to it if Mr. Feijóo hadn't allowed Rajoy and Ana Pastor's delays. Of course it's necessary for AVE to connect the cities of Greece, but I think it's fair to acknowledge that last day 21, with the first trip put into operation, was a historic date for Galicia to that of the AVE Ourense-Madrid. Despite the fact that the president of the board questioned the central government's commitment to the arrival of the AVE to Galicia this year 2021, the AVE has arrived. So did he with the AP-9 bonuses, also alerting the central government not to carry out those bonuses during July of this year, and these bonuses arrived in June. Therefore, as a seer, little future has Mr. Feijóo. Today Mr. Feijóo criticized, as he said, only to come to Ourense, after he himself was guilty of the delays in that infrastructure, first, during the years of Rajoy's government, silence, not asking for and not working for this arrival; and then, with the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to the Government, questioning the commitments of this government. That same Mr. Feijóo that the neighborhood of the province of Lugo well recalls in an election event there in 2009, when he was a candidate for the Galician Union, who said that the AVE would arrive at Lugo and that he would even set up own funds for the Galician Union. Well, the AVE hasn't reached Lugo yet, and the president of the Galician board hasn't put his own money for that arrival. [[Applause]] But, well, if the arrival of high speed to Galicia is a very good news, it's no less true that the internal connection to the Meseta must also be a priority. In this sense, it is our amendment to today's initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block: that it is compatible, not prioritized, with the connection to the Meseta with the internal connection of our community. In this sense, we share the need to maintain the line of Avant A Coruña-Ourense, leaving at 6.30 a.m. and arriving at 7.38 p.m., as well as the review of schedules to promote internal mobility. In relation to the Avant La Coruña-Ourense, we believe that this schedule should be maintained, since this did not have a high demand, allowing many people — among other reasons — to use this means of transport for labour or academic reasons. We also believe that a review of schedules should be carried out in order to promote internal mobility. A good schedule of schedules must be made, taking into account the needs and demands of the neighborhood. And here, in this reformulation and revision of schedules, which we share with what the Galician Nationalist Block is looking at on its initiative, and also seeing the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to say that it is very good to ask the Central Government — also by the People's Parliamentary Group, with the amendment they make — but it would also be very reasonable to ask the Galician Council to review the timetables adopted now in connection with the new AVE connections on buses. Because we're seeing that there's also complaints about those timetable reformulations that the Galician Union made. [[Murmurs.]] And why do I say this? Because the Galician Union unilaterally modified the schedules covered by bus transport contracts to adapt them to the arrival of the AVE; unilaterally, without planning. You have changed schedules without taking into account the needs and demands of users and users. It is therefore very nice to be asked by the Central Government to check these schedules and lines for the internal connection, but it would also be convenient for the Greek Government to review the lines and schedules to adapt them to the arrival of the AVE and that this revision would be used to have a more tailored schedule to meet the needs of people, users and users. Mrs. Presas spoke and made a point on the Ourense-Lugo line. I just want to say that the central government has just offered three contracts: two by 76 million for the treatment of elements of this infrastructure in the Ourense-Monforte-Lugo railway corridor; and another contract of more than 13 million for the improvement of signaling and telecommunications facilities. These contracts seek to improve the state of the infrastructure and increase the reliability of the lines and quality of the service, optimizing the conditions of commercial operation of the route in parameters such as reliability, comfort and travel times. With regard to the second point, to comply with the unanimous agreement reached in this plenary in February 2018, we also agree. This group remains in the same position, in which such improvements are necessary in the rail transport between Ourense, Santiago and A Coruña. As far as Mrs Presas was concerned about prices, we have already stated in 2018 that it was unacceptable that this price difference existed, that there was a need for a discount on them. At that time he was making the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group our late and dear companion Raúl, who, of course, also fought so much and so much for the improvement of the infrastructures in his province. And with regard to the third point, of the replacement of the railway lines suppressed by the vault-19, we have already debated in this House about the relative of this replacement. We have also unanimously adopted initiatives in this regard, and we have presented initiatives of this silence. But it would also be good for the People's Party to apply its own medicine. It's very good to ask that the railway lines that were removed during the pandemic be restored, but it would be very good that they didn't use this argument by the Galician Union to delete lines in road transport, and I'm talking about someone who has been suppressed between the cities of Lugo and Ourense. So we share what the Galician Nationalist Block today calls for in its initiative and we also share many of the things the People's Party presents in its amendment. But it seems very hypocritical to ask the Central Government alone and not to ask the Galician Union. Our only amendment is not to prioritize one connection over the other, but to support Galicia's internal connection with Galicia's connection to the Meseta. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u202	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Beyond the test trips and the openings with which we lived last month, there was a good news yesterday with the start of the first commercial circulations from AVE to Ourense. Through Ourense, Galicia communicates with Spain with a 21st century railway, a triumph of all the Greeks; accompanied, of course, by the work of the governments of Spain and of the Greek governments of a different political colour. Mrs. Otero, you're talking about the People's Party. But Mr Caballero, mayor of Vigo, of his party, being Minister of Transport, announced that the high speed would arrive in Galicia in 1993. If we talk, we have to talk a little bit about everyone. It's a triumph, ladies and gentlemen, of all the Greeks and we celebrate, as it couldn't be otherwise. [[Applause]] It's a great news that opens a great context of new opportunities for the orensans, but also for Galician, and that's relevant, in addition, at the moment we have ahead of the Holy Year 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, this euphoria which prevents us today and allows us to continue to dream and work towards the future cannot prevent us from seeing clearly the remaining needs in our country in rail matters, which are still many. At high speed — the president said this morning — we will not give up the arrival of the AVRIL trains, which are wide-movable, in the calendar committed by the Government of the State, so that the high speed does not remain inconclusive and arrives and continues to extend to the rest of the cities of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the German Government has been insisting for a long time before the Government of Spain on the need that, in the same way that the high-speed drive between Ourense and Madrid, it is necessary to push it with the rest of the cities of Greece, and to improve the proximity train services. That is why we see it reasonable, Mrs Presas, today's debate, which the People's Party has completed with a constructive amendment with the aim of reaching a broader agreement and collecting all the demands in the railway field in our country. Because we all understand that the entry into service of AVE has to bring with it the restructuring of lines and frequencies to make it easier to connect to other points of the Galician geography. But it's unacceptable and we don't understand that this restructuring is used as an excuse to dismantle the conventional train, which is used daily by thousands of workers and students in our community. It's true -- and it has to be said -- that since yesterday Renfe has increased some frequencies in Galicia; frequencies that today, ladies and gentlemen, need to be rethinked, because new implanted schedules come to draw a situation that causes prejudice to the mobility of the Greeks, but also to the economic activity of our country, and they pose an important obstacle for the Greek families to reconcile their working life and their family life. Let us look at practical examples. We could put them on the Atlantic axis, but since Mrs. Presas spoke of our inner connection Ourense-The Crown, we'll talk about that connection. Mrs. Presas, you've already spoken of the synthesis of the new daily frequency of 6.55 hours The Coruña-Ourense and also of the synthesis of the elimination of the frequency of 6.55 hours between Ourense and the Coruña, but the problems do not only affect frequencies, ladies and gentlemen. Last week this Member, representing the Group of the People's Party, traveled from Ourense to The Coruña with those affected by these changes. And, ladies and gentlemen, users don't ask for a German train, Mrs. Rodil. That's an exclusive theme of the Galego Nationalist Block, which, as a theory, is very good and even there may be someone who buys it, but in the end it's full of demagogy and lack of reality, as its setting on this House this morning. What those affected ask us to do, ladies and gentlemen, are services; quality services and services that meet the needs of all Greeks and Greeks. And they also ask us to make decisions according to people's reality and not to match statistics at the end of the year. That's our only concern, ladies and gentlemen, the problems of each and every one of the Greeks. And thinking of the people, for all the inconveniences that have moved us, the Government of Spain must also review the flexibility and duration of the transport bonds. Nine days from the end of the year and the end of the extension that has been enabled to consume those bonds because of the pandemic, users are on the ground of no one and they don't know if they're going to continue with the previous validity or if the deadlines are to be changed today. And this may seem trivial here in this House, it's making it difficult for many workers to organize themselves. And another matter of more than the last minute, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government of the State does not know how to resolve, how it is happening lately with the VE of the masks or the rise in the price of light, by setting an example, is that we also claim the need for the bonds to be used on all trains. I have a limited time, but I'm going to try to set a quick example. Look, I'm talking about Cristina, but he could be any other traveler. Tomorrow he'll be leaving his house at 5.25, taking the 5:55 train in Coruña to come to work in the city of Burgas. When you finish your job, you'll have to return to the Crown by 5:00 p.m. Until yesterday, Cristina could pick up an Avant at 5:05 and return to her place of residence. Today you don't have Avant, you have an Alvia at 17.08, but if you want to go home and don't wait at 7 p.m., Cristina has to pay 23.15 euros off and pay for the extra trip, because it's not compatible with the bonus. And so one day and another, gentlemen. It's insumable! It seems reasonable that if users pay a bonus for a particular route, they have the right to use it on any train that runs through that route, either Avant or Alvia. They will agree with me that the railway services and services related to them are not being the right ones either for citizens to bet on public transport, for the Greek families, or for that territorial vertebration of which both the president of the Government, the minister or even the president of Adif speak of. And we believe that an agreement in this House can only incorporate a reference to the situation in Renfe's staff. There's an urgent need for machinists, but there's also a need for face-to-face sales specialists. Look, in Ourense, of the 10 places that exist today, only 5 are covered. And that turns out there's only one worker per shift to meet a 35% increase in work. Personal lack, frequencies don't adapt, fares and bonds don't respond to travellers, there are continuous damage and continued delays. The existing disorder is unacceptable and service reduction is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is very simple: the Greeks need rail connections within the competitive territory, and for this reason the Government needs to act, which acts in the improvement of railway infrastructures and which acts in the provision of more frequencies and services and at better prices than makes rail transport a useful means of transport. In this context, they could take an example of the fact that the Galician Union or the Government of Galicia has restored more than half a year ago, Mrs. Otero, 100 percent of the buses that are of their competence and that have kept many in circulation during the pandemic, despite the low levels of occupation. Because Galicia, Mrs Otero, anticipates the maintenance of public services for citizens in the face of economic profitability. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Otero, you're late asking for the reorganization of the frequency of the bus service. Look, the Galician Union has already been reorganized since yesterday so that all the Greek cities have an adequate service to be able to link with the AVE in Ourense. Different ways of working, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the State and the Government of Greece, and various ways of caring for and caring about what really concerns citizens, which is only to have decent services for their daily lives. And as for this group and for this government communications are a priority theme, we will continue to work to improve its functioning and adapt it to the real needs of citizenship. And we will continue to demand once and for all times the Ministry of Transport, the Adif or the Renfe are all that we detect; a position, ladies and gentlemen, according to the social feeling of the Greeks and the Greeks, and a position that must be common and in which all the political groups, all the institutions and all the citizenship must concentrate our demands, as is already being done by the Council of Galicia. Mrs. Presas, although we disagree with one of the points you made in your explanatory statement, I am grateful to you for your willingness to adopt a consensus agreement with which to claim, before that government of the State that you presume to end Galicia's "scattering and foggy", as you said - this is the unreal image they have of our country - a firm commitment in rail matters both in internal connections and in connections throughout Galicia with the rest of the Meseta. To finish, I want to wish everyone a happy Christmas, a happy Christmas with affection, and ask them to work together so Galicia won't miss the train. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would also like to thank the consensus of the groups on this issue. Now, I also use it to answer some of the questions. The first is that the Welsh nationalists and the Greeks love to connect with the world. Who shouldn't want to connect Galicia to the world must, at least, be the branches in Madrid of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who are responsible for what began to happen on yesterday's light thirty years of delay, while other parts of the state did. I mean, we love to connect with the world. [[Applause]] Now, it wasn't so much to ask that the main towns and cities in this country could connect with each other through the railway. In any case, on the issues that came out here, I mean that I really do, despite the ghastly Mass of the Statute of Self-Government, of its fortieth anniversary, it was just as well that we had to do a reading and an examination in this Parliament. Because I want to remember that here, in this Parliament, some were already Members in 2009. I think Mr. Santalices was a Member, and I think that -- yes, not only Ana Pontón has been in this Parliament for many years -- and there are more people: Diego Calvo I think he was in that vote, Mr. Puy would dare say that he too... so much is criminalizing the proposal of the Nationalist Block Galego for the creation of a railway body of the transfer of competences, and this Parliament has already asked for them, eh! [[Murmurs.]] And the People's Party voted in favour. [[Applause]] Now if they have become less self-governing defenders of this country, and it seems to them that it is also to brow the armed struggle, because, of course, it is the problem of the People's Party, but here this Parliament has already spoken in favour of that issue, and we, of course, will continue to insist on it, because we are convinced that it is something that has a great acceptance in Greek society, a great demand, and that it would also be an opportunity to better manage the railway, according to our needs. In any case, that proposal is more realistic than what Mr Feijóo told us that he was going to do with budgets from the Board the VA to Place from Ourense, if the state did not comply. In the end, we see that he didn't meet that nor did he keep any other questions. [[Applause]] In any case, we are grateful for the constructive approach made by the People's Parliamentary Group, and, in particular, the question of the lack of staff is something we share, which we have registered in other initiatives. What we're talking about today is that there's a key issue, which is the lack of drivers. At least 12 more machinist posts would be needed in the residence between Ourense and Monforte to, among other things, recover that before 6.45. Professionals are convinced that the real reason not to recover is not demand, that there is demand, but the question of staff organization. And above all, we are grateful that the three groups agree on the question of schedules, that it would also be something "free" -- so between quotes -- because it is a question of service organization, which is not one of the other demands that are made on this initiative and that we continue to subscribe, but which we think would be the most urgent. I also wanted to comment on one last question. Indeed, Mrs. Otero, you shouldn't have listened to me, but I said that the outside variant was adjudicated already and that it was good news. Another question is the delay of that investment, and it also seems to us that we need to link this to the pending debate on having a dignified intermodal in Ourense. Because it was very nice to ask Junta when she was doing part of the bus station, but we kept asking both of us, both of us and the state, to have a dignified intermodal. In any case, we appreciate the constructive will of the amendment and we understand that it improves writing and what it was meant to be. I also want to take advantage of this intervention to make a warm memory of our colleague Raúl Fernández, who we also appreciated from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Besides, I was privileged because I could be with him precisely in Campobecerros, in his native land, seeing the damage he left on the roads the work of the AVE, as he did not fulfill the commitments of repair and seeing, as he explained to me, that the river was damaged and as they practiced, in addition, those expropriations, not always with an approach of justice. For him all our gratitude and love me too. And lastly - and I wanted to take advantage of, in addition to insisting, once again, to thank them for this consensus among the groups - I think on the 20th day on that visit, on those faces of Welcome, the Marshall Mister that we saw, there was an absence that should not exist in this debate, which is also a reminder and an overwhelming commitment to all the victims of England and our commitment to continue working on justice, reparation and truth. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] After the debate on the non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u206	We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangüena. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote of the transactional text of the Non-Legal Proposal by Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández and Mr. Paloma Castro Rey, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the improvement of the quality of the autonomous administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u207	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Teresa Egerique. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the transfer by the Galician Union to the Government of Spain of the rejection of the measures provided for in the proposed text of the Fisheries Control Regulation 1224/2009. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u208	We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on Parliament's commitment and support to the Constitution and the Galician Statute of Self-Government and the rejection of initiatives promoting Galician independence or any other autonomous community in Spain. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on Parliament's commitment and support to the Constitution and the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia and the rejection of initiatives promoting the independence of Galicia or any other autonomous community in Spain. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u209	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Pérez López. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr. Daniel Pérez López and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union to plan and implement the funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan to self-government and companies affected by the Covid-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u210	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the performances to be carried out at Junta de Galicia in relation to the school calendar for the course 2021/2022 of public schools. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u211	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Noa Presas. There's a transaction I'm going to read because the trial of this presidency seems to be an interesting transaction that says: """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 1. The maintenance of the line Avant The Coruña-Ourense, leaving at 6.30 a.m. and arriving at 7.38 p.m., and the revision of the hours towards favouring mobility between The Coruña-Santiago-Ourense, and vice versa, in the usual working hours, allowing the displacement and arrival in the first and last hours of the morning and afternoon, making the internal connection to the Meseta connection and the new AVE connections between Ourense and Madrid compatible. 2. The fulfilment of the unanimous agreement of the plenary of the Greek Parliament of 7 February 2018 on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the existing needs and the necessary improvements in the rail transport between Ourense and Santiago de Compostela and La Coruña, requiring that within two months a timetable of compliance be negotiated with Galicia. 3. The immediate replacement of the railway lines suppressed under the excuse of the covid-19. 4. To extend the staff table immediately, beginning with the filling of vacant squares to ensure the proper functioning of all services, especially with regard to the necessary correction of the deficit of drivers, specialists in commercial information operations and face-to-face sales, access control personnel and travellers' care personnel." We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños and four other Members, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Central Government for the correction of the modification of the schedule of the Avant train The Coruña-Uurense and the abolition of the Lugo-Uurense train, as well as the recovery of deleted lines. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u212	We're still on the agenda. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u213	As I said, there is now a change in the agenda and the health advisor has to intervene, who has in particular questions. Question by D. Paulo Ríos Santôme and Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Galician Council for the restoration of the Emergency Service in Moaña and the replacement of personnel in a transfer situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u214	We started with Mr. Pablo Ríos Santomé's question. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. From the BNG Parliamentary Group, we are bringing this question here because of the emergency situation in the neighbourhood of Moaña with regard to the right to quality health care. Over these years we have seen a gradual dismantling and worsening of the public health system. In all parts of the country, we see how citizen mobilization acts as a restraint against policies aimed at draining public resources and promoting private initiative in the health care sector. They're telling you Moaña, at the bottom of mine, at Salnés, at Valdeorras, at Barbanza, at the Navy, and yet it seems that you only trade these large private health institutions here. But in the case we're dealing with, we're talking about Moaña, a village of about 20,000 people who have been living for over a year and a half with its Emergency Service displaced in the Town Hall of Cangas; a measure that, still with reservations, was assumed by the neighborhood due to the pandemic situation. More than a year and a half later, the interim measures that seem to remain permanent and no alternative was put on the table that facilitates access to this service and recovery of emergencies in the case of the Moaña Sea. This is an attack on the right of neighbourhood to have quality healthcare, because there are many of the obstacles that exist for those who need to go to the Emergency Service can do it in the neighborhood. Moaña's neighbours have been demanding that this service be returned to them for months, but they only receive either silence or negatives without concretion from their counsellor. In case this situation wasn't bad enough, we saw a new sample of the chaotic and harmful management of the Ministry of Health, since the House of the Moaña Sea has been in the middle of a month with a highly accused lack of personnel, due to the execution of transfers of personnel to other destinations. Today, the neighborhood of Moaña is without Emergency Service in its village and with a lack of staff that directly results in the work overload of the professionals who stay in the center, as well as of the administrative staff, which worsens the quality of the health care service. As you know, Counselor, last day 12 more than 5,000 people went through Moaña demanding dignified health care and that the Sergas did not play with their health, and motions were also approved in the Full Council. The answer of his counseling was silence. We are today with over two thousand five hundred people without a doctor in the afternoon, trying to make changes to tomorrow's shift, for which there are no holes. All the medical personnel who are currently serving in Moaña are completely saturated, with weeks' waiting lists, tension and quite anxiety for people who can't access a health service. And it's not only that they find themselves bad, but that to renew low or for any other kind of management we're completely the same. Today you have the opportunity to stop ignoring Moaña's neighborhood and answer a clear question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u217	When will the E.R. return to Moaña and when will the transferred staff be restored?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u218	Thank you, Your Honor. Time's up. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u219	Good morning, President. Mr. Rivers. Sometimes it's hard to understand BNG. On 29 November, you withdrew an initiative which has already been repeated in this chamber, in which you asked for the following: to extend the time limit of the public closing of the accommodation, restoration and nightlife sites until the closing time set out in your opening licenses. It seemed as if they were trying not to come into contradiction with a press release that Mrs. Pontón had pointed out that she was concerned about the increase in hideous cases and the emergence of new variants. It seems that although they suddenly understood that it was not the moment of relaxation. But on that very day, on November 29, they recorded this question that I have been asked today and that in the explanatory statement says the following: "What you can no longer understand is that in these moments, in which the pandemic is virtually overcome, the House of the Moannah Sea continues without emergencies and without recovering the pre-eminence consultations ratios." Gentlemen of the BNG, exactly what world do you live in? How can they overcome the pandemic on the same day, ask to extend the hospitality schedule, get rid of this request and show concern? That's the coherence we can create from the BNG. [[Applause]] In any case, reading your question carefully, always very instructive, I understand that this cannot be more than your mantra of the supposed cuts of this government. However, I'm going to insist on a data that I repeat permanently, but that comes in through one ear and goes out for the other: in 2022 we will invest 541 million euros in primary staff; nothing more and nothing less than 99.7 million euros more than in 2009. To be a private health commercial, I think it's a pretty good data. In spite of this, the deficit of primary staff, especially in order to be able to carry out inter-replacements, is, of course, conditional on the development of this level of care, for which it is necessary to take extraordinary measures, and we are taking, as continuity contracts for more than three years, quality agendas, new category of optional primary care specialist, sixty-four new teaching squares for Community medicine. In the end, a lot of measures to be able to work in this direction. In the case of Moaña, like many others, there is no escape from this reality, and the center actually counts with seven professionals who perform their services in the morning, and we currently have two doctors who serve during the afternoon. And there would have to be two more, who left the square for a voluntary transfer contest, which I suppose the Block won't oppose. But, of course, she does everything she can to fill those vacancies. First, through the active search for professionals who cover them. In second place, through intersubstitutions and prolongation of the day. On the other hand, in fact, the pandemic has also conditioned, given the characteristics of this health center and given the characteristics of the CAP installation, which I'm sure you know, that at the beginning of the pandemic we will take the Moaña Emergency Responses to the Cangas Health Center to provide better coverage. And for the moment, unfortunately, it's going to have to be like this for a while longer until this pandemic is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, as always, answers do not depart from a press note which can read in any media on the board page. The reality with the Emergency Service is that you can't shield yourself in this new vacancy, at this particular moment, but we've been here for years and a half without any kind of alternative. You don't shield yourself in this particular month or in what unfortunately you can pass here in a short time. I also don't try to throw balloons in the eye as you might say, trying to deal with the question of voluntary transfers. Logically, workers and health workers have that right, but Sergas also has the obligation to plan, that when these professionals leave their jobs, voluntarily and with all their rights, there are other professionals, other professionals to replace them. And you don't have to wait two thousand five hundred people without a doctor and guard lists for a two- or three-week primary care appointment. [[Applause]] That's what can't happen. That's what we were talking about earlier, about the process of dismantling public health. If we make the public worse, people go to private, and it's just that in the last ten years, private health insurance policies have risen in nearly 100,000 people in this country, and we don't count anymore because we don't count the punctual appointments, the punctual issues. They're fattening private health based on dismantling the public. That's right. And, above all, they're playing a game of confronting users, the neighborhood, with the workers themselves, and that's what's going on. That's also what led the administrative professionals at the health center to ask you, to ask Sergas even a sworn guard, to be there because of the tension. And, above all, to people who need attention, and that their health service doesn't give it to them. So stop making excuses for bad payers, get them to work, put the doctors they need to take care of the neighborhood of Moaña and we'll get back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u223	...the emergencies in our village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u224	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u225	Thank you very much. Sometimes, Mr. Ríos, there's no worse deaf than he doesn't want to hear. I've told him on many occasions, we've told him many times, that the problem is that there are no doctors. I don't know what part you don't understand about this. Now you'll say the doctors are leaving. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the doctors in Galicia, 90% of those who have been trained in the last ten years are working at Sergas. [[Murmurs.]] They have most of them a stable contract, most of them -- 64% -- with ownership square, and a salary that is equal to the wages of any other autonomous community, if not above. The problem is there aren't, really. And if the solution is to prevent those workers who want to change Moaña's job, we don't let them go, that's what you would do, surely. Well, since we don't want to do that, we don't allow them to leave either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we don't have substitutes, we don't have substitutes. That's the reality you don't want to face. We, in any case, rather than say these things of the usual, of talking about privatization — my God, go arguments! If that's all they have!—we're doing is working with the ministry, trying to have more professionals. We have already reiterated the need to equip sixty-four more teaching places; we have set up continuity contracts; we have done all possible measures, even — an important line — to work with other primary care professionals so that part of that work can be done. And most importantly, and I want to put it in value: the healthcare professionals are responding to the mechanisms that we have established, i.e. the extension and intersubstitutions, that demand of these two coupons, which, of course, we are looking for alternatives to cover them. But while we don't have them, these patients are cared for by the rest of the health center workers, using regulations and formulas that are contemplated and approved at the sectoral table. An important question I want to say right now, and speaking of Moaña, because you forget about this, is that we're still waiting for the land to be able to make the Moaña health center, that we already have the basic project pending the execution project until we have the land. We've been waiting for land since February 2020. If those lands were, at best, we could have a different alternative than we have at the current Moaña Health Center. I want to ask the Moaña political forces to take the final step, put us on the land, which, I repeat, we already have the basic project waiting for those lands. That's a non-essential element; we're talking about another most important problem, which is that of human resources. But — I repeat — I would like to highlight this important bet by a new health centre, which will triple the surface and will have, until the health centre is resolved, in the CIS of Cangas the possibility of having these facilities in Moaña. But, of course, in this context, if you ask me today, I have to say it very loudly. If you asked me two months ago, I would tell you that by caution the covered circuits we continue to keep them, and the measures taken in the pandemic are still, at present, in force, because — as we already said at that time and unfortunately we have to say now — the virus is there and these measures should continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in the face of the strike announced by the optionals of the Lower Mine
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u227	His word is Manuel Antonio Lorenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u228	Good morning, Mr. Comesaña. I ask you to see this picture. They are neither incoherent radicals, nor abductive neighborhood, nor dangerous anti-systems. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a photograph to the seat of the Mr. Health Counsellor.]] I am, Mr. Counsellor, Neighbors and Neighbors of Lower Mine, a whole region standing, exercising historical dignity and defending their public health from the cuts of the People's Party. [[Applause]] A comarca, Mr. Comesaña, who yesterday came out in the street shouting "More doctors and less propaganda." "More doctors and less propaganda," Mr. Comesaña, demanded yesterday the neighbours of the Lower Mine. "More doctors and less propaganda" comes here today to sue the BNG. Because when you, as you just did, Mr. Comesaña, say there's no problem with the working conditions of primary doctors in our country -- you just say so right now, check what you just said -- with what you find a mother in the Guard who wants to take her 16-year-old daughter sick to the doctor is that eight doctors who have in the cup, they've been with only two doctors in the morning and hopefully one in the afternoon. And so, Mr. Comesaña, they cry out, "More doctors and less propaganda." [[Applause]] With a 70-year-old neighbor of Rosal, who had to wait 12 days for a date. Also with the reality that he was suing his mayor, who did what he said yesterday: we can't even meet the minimum services of a strike because there are no doctors. It must be the only strike in the world where we would like to carry out minimum abusive services. Three doctors at the Rosal Cup, zero doctors for six thousand inhabitants, Counsellor; cover with a prolongation of Tui's day. Shame is exactly what happens in all the Town Councils of Lower Mine, and in Oya without a pediatrician. And yesterday, Counselor, that's why doctors had to carry on a dignified exercise, which we also want to thank them for. We want to thank them from the BNG for the commitments of doctors, who are not the BNG, for what you are working on; they are professionals who are at the forefront of this pandemic that you despise. [[Applause]] All our support, we are with you in defense of public health. And that's why, Your Grace, you have two options here today. The first option is to come here with excuses and propaganda, as you just did, or you have another option, which is to implement measures that you can take forward. Proposals, Mr Comesaña: hire new professional categories to take up primary care, such as nutritionists, clinical psychologists. Proposal, Mr Comesaña: end the precariousness of primary care. Proposal, Mr. Comesaña: encourage the squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u229	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u230	...of peripheral destinations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u232	Proposal, Mr Comesaña: defends public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u233	Time's up. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u234	With all due respect, Mr. Lourenzo, and, above all, with regard to nutritionists. The solution of primary care is to hire nutritionists. This is the bomb! [[Applause]] Look, let's talk about property first. Low Mine is a territory I know well — I suppose you too — which covers several areas: the services on Tui and the services on The Guard. The strike that the IGC called, not the professionals, the IGC, calls it the Low Mine, but it's a strike in the Town Councils of the Guard, The Rosal and Oia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And indeed, Mr. Lourenzo, they have a very serious problem, and it is that of thirteen squares, four long-term lows. Now you'll tell me that, of course, the casualties are due to the stress of doctors. Look: I don't doubt the casualties at all; they're long-term lows and therefore four professionals are missing. In the Guard, there are five, one low and two vacancies, because, in addition to being long-term low, we have four vacancies, squares offered to the OPE. I have to say that the Guard is the only destination, a year has gone by without covering the OPE, not covering the Guard Square. It's because we give bad conditions or because there's no nutritionist. Better, it'll be for that! Like it's a lie? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Economic incentives? They cover the same thing as anywhere. In any case, I say that's the important problem in the Guard. And I also have to say — as I said before — that there are two alternatives to these problems: talking about privatization, talking about nutritionists — and I repeat it with all due respect for nutritionists — or looking for solutions. We have been looking for solutions, with continuity contract, 62,000 euros a year, three-year contract that we had offered; squares, this new category that we just approved yesterday in the assumptions, of optional area specialist, which also carries guards in the CAP; all the role of the nursing; all the demand management; quality schedules. Finally, a set of broad measures. Also negotiation, especially with professionals; we're working with them, there were two meetings to look for an alternative to the whole area. The area is complicated, indeed, and I have to tell you that if there are no people to do the least, it's because in that health center we have two casualties and a vacancy in the center of the Rosal. But I don't have a magic vein to get professionals to show up. And, of course, as it is shown, the problem of lack of doctors... No, I'm not from BNG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They'd like you to be from the BNG! Maybe that's how they showed up more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u235	Silence, silence! Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u236	But, in any case, if you have a BNG doctor, we'll hire you tomorrow, no problem at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The saying is an important problem, which is right now throughout the territory, as it is seen in various performances and where the Galician Union continues to work on finding solutions. I repeat, we will not stop looking for them. And I finish by thanking the work that these professionals do, that besides being with the lack of doctors in the Guard, they're able to cover The Rosal. And from here our highest respect and gratitude for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u237	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u238	Thank you, President. Mr. Comesaña, you can see from what you pointed out yesterday to the neighborhood of Rosal, you don't have much respect for him, but you don't have much respect for nutritionists, clinical psychologists, either. [[Applause]] I remind you, Mr. Comsaña: 30% of primary care consultations have to do with clinical psychology. Insert these professionals and you'll see how primary care is decongested. [[Applause]] Mr. Comesaña, yesterday you even know that I was activated by 061 to attend an emergency at the Rosal Health Center, where there was no doctor. Another companion had to take another emergency from the Guard. Most of the morning we were out of stock all under Mine, all the population of Low Mine; a doctor in the Guard, a doctor in Oia, zero doctors in the Rosal. You may be very proud, Counselor, of the placard you're making. And what this neighborhood is waiting for -- and we tell you in an absolutely constructive plan -- is that you give solutions, that you stop coming here with the old mantra, with the old mantra, with which there are no doctors, with which the blame is for others. If there's no doctors, there's something you'll have to say to a government that's been ruling thirty-three years in this country. Something you'll have to say! [[Applause]] Because if the only thing you come to say here, Counselor, is that the blame lies with the Government of the State... as you did, Counselor, in one of the most embarrassing statements I remember you, and that, really, they are not themselves, when you said that the health situation in the Lower Mine was the responsibility of the Government of the State for the MIR squares. In any case, following your argument, taking your glove, it would take four years; if you, the People's Party, did not do your homework in four years, they assume your responsibility. But I stop blaming and throwing balloons out of the neighborhood, blaming doctors and blaming everyone who puts their inconsistencies on the table. The health at the bottom of the mine will defend its dignity as long as it takes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u239	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u240	...and today was just the beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u241	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u242	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Lourenzo. Well, I insist again: I don't think I've ever said that the guard's problem was the ministry. What I'm saying is that in the face of accusing others — which is what's good for you, blaming others — I'm saying that we have to find solutions. And I repeat: I take that glove from the Block; if the Block finds us a proposal, something to improve the situation there; not to hire nutritionists, please, let it be something else. And I say again — because you didn't listen to me — with all due respect for nutritionists. [[Applause]] Look, the problem is serious, and it's not serious in the Guard, it's less serious in Tui. Because you're talking about Bass Mine, and I repeat that you can't tell me any problems about Tui because there aren't, or in Tomineño. But well, under me, whatever you want. But it's not even Vigo or Galicia, the problem is at least state level. There's a very serious problem with the lack of doctors and we need to find solutions. A number one solution is that they let us once take out the emergency specialty, and that doctors who end this same year the specialty of Family and Community Medicine, and that last year they were almost half the emergency, they don't have to leave. Look, a measure. Why don't you support this measure? You don't like this measure. Well, this is an important measure that we have to work with her to improve the number of specialists in Family and Community Medicine. [[Applause]] Another measure, which we continue to work on it, that nursing can assume a broader role, within the framework of its competences, to help the doctor, which we believe is indeed a specialty that has to help. Management of demand: working so that all the demand that the neighbours of Lower Mine and all the neighbors of any center of Galicia can go to the professional who will best solve their problem, and they don't have to go through the doctor. Another measure that is placed on the table. Elements with PSX, with tools of help for all people who call the health center to receive within twenty-four hours of their call, the return of it, which we are testing right now and working in all the centers that are running, responding in less than two hours. And those squares that we have just demanded from the ministry — that we believe it is he who has the ability to believe them, and we, of course, to finance them — for the coming year of sixty-four specialists. Maybe you could be in the Watch forming. Well, that's a way we've got on the table, and I'm not saying it's the fault of the ministry, it's the ministry that has to resolve that request. And so I could keep talking about hours and hours of things that since this council is working on trying to solve a problem that — I repeat — is endemic. But you don't, you keep blaming Sergas, the Feijóo, the privatization, and that's the solution, and you keep putting carp in front of the health centers with this very mantra. Well, of course, so we're going to have a health care as far as we need it and we're not going to solve the problems because we're going to keep saying that the blame is for Sergas and counseling. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u243	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u244	We resumed the session with another change of agenda, which in this case is a question to the Government. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u245	Ask the Government of D. Iago Tabares. Question by Mr Iago Tabarés Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in the city of Ourense to alleviate the inactivity and closure of spaces of artistic and cultural creation and exhibition derived from the decisions of the Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u246	Whenever you like, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u247	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Counsellor, really our question what you want to know -- because there are doubts, even in the People's Party -- is whether you know what's going on in Ourense or whether you really know it, but it gives them absolutely the same. [[Applause]] This, more than one question, is a denunciation of abandonment, when not persecution, that are suffering cultural expressions and cultural tissue in the city of Ourense; cultural creations that we should not confuse with shows, because spectacles of the government group, whether by thermalism or by urbanism or for any reason, are the ones that are giving us day by day, but of little cultural level. [[Applause]] This denunciation has been a reproduction of what thousands of citizens and citizens of Ourense have already done, complaining on the street — the only possibility they have between electoral processes — to manifest this need for culture, that cultural emergency that is living in the city of Ourense. We've been living since the last three years -- not since the last three years, but something else -- the closure of spaces for the exhibition of cultural activity. The Municipal Museum closed, the Archaeological Museum, twenty years without activity, or even a privatized auditorium, which is only used and intended for rent by private promoters. So the cultural spaces in Ourense are virtually nonexistent. In recent years we have seen the abolition of support for the Autumn Photographic, a dean photography festival throughout the Peninsula and even had ramifications in Barcelona, Chaves or other parts of Galicia; the abolition of institutional support for all theatre activity, be it Fito, Mito or Miteu, that is, the International Theatre Festival, the International University Theatre Show or the Children's Theatre Show. Similarly, municipal collaboration at the International Festival of Classical Music, the Paradise Pórtico; the Body Festival (a) Earth, of dance; also The Arts of the Body, The Dance in the Cloister...; that is, all kinds of cultural expression in the matter of dance. Also, in the matter of chamber music, the Music Cycle in the Chamber Key, the summer programming of the Father Faixoo Cycle, the closing of the Cultural University...; something that only this government and that of Francisco Franco, for twenty-five years. They were promoters, in the generation We, Risco and Otero Pedrayo, and one hundred and eleven years uninterrupted activity, of direct education... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u248	Thank you, Mr. Tabares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u249	...except that little twenty-five-year-old space...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u250	Thank you. Time's up. Thanks, you got it. [[Applause]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, the fact is that this initiative, this question, to me, has surprised me, and it is tremendously revealing how to understand the policy of each training. I'm saying I'm surprised you're very concerned about cultural activity in the city of Ourense — we too, of course — but they're not so much in other cities, for example, in Lugo. It's funny that an audience of 23 million euros is not received by the administrations that are supported by you. [[Murmurs.]] It's funny! Too much concern about Ourense and very little about Lugo. Home!, I would ask you — I know you won't listen, and they won't listen to you — that force that transmits in support of culture also say it in Lugo, in the MP and in the Town Hall. You won't listen to me, and they won't listen to you either, but I think it would be interesting if you shared that concern. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is that the Union in Ourense has a great network of public services, of the main public services in cultural spaces. We just inaugurated the Library Us. Very recently we also put the Provincial Archive into operation. Fantastic library and fantastic archive!, funded with three million euros by the Galician board - annually, the cost of management -. We have the Archaeological Museum in works, as you know very well. After many years, fortunately, the Archaeological Museum is in works, right? There are large cultural initiatives funded, co-financed, by the Union - some of you have mentioned them - The Film Festival, the Universitary Theatre Exhibition, the Portico da Gloria Festival, the International Theatre Festival are co-financed by the Galician Union. We take cultural content; without going further, the great exposure of us to us; Jacobic symbols. A few days ago Tigers were inaugurated as horses by Xela Arias; Foges of light, of the CGAC itself. We support and increase funding and programming at the Main Theatre, with a 28% increase. Two Sundays ago we had an performance in the cathedral itself of a relevant culture person, like Budiño. I believe that the Union is absolutely fulfilling; the Union complies with the support and cultural strength it has always had Ourense with the main cultural equipment: library, archive and museum, and supporting programming both public and private, some individually and others with other collectives. That's why I say it's surprising that we are questioning the support of the Union to the local culture of the city of Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u252	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u253	And it's also revealing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u254	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u255	...because he seems to be worried about another city...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u256	Thank you, that's it. It's over. [[Applause]] For the reply, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u257	Mr Counsellor, I think it is a lack of respect for this Parliament, for the thousands of citizens and citizens of Ourense who have expressed their support for culture and, of course, for this parliamentary group, for whom we are asking about Ourense and for Lugo. [[Applause]] If we ask you about Ourense and not just about the implications, you could tell, being honest, that even a few days ago, some activity, with the cock of the Xacobeo, proposed for the council of Ourense, the Council of Ourense refused it. So cooperation, at best, must be replaced by direct action. And we ask the Galician Union because, according to our Statute, they are competent in the field of promotion and culture. And secondly, because many of the things we're referring to that have been deleted and that we could unfortunately, with a lot of heart pain, continue to list, are their responsibility, not only for that government -- as he likes to call it -- Frankenstein who is supporting, but because you directly carried some of those cultural initiatives. Look, Counselor, for the Galego Nationalist Block and for Mr Miguel de Unamuno, freedom is culture. And what we have to give the people to be free is not to choose between El Eagle, Star Galicia or any traditional beer, but to promote that freedom, to promote those cultural values. And that's why we ask the Galician Board to get involved radically, because not only is it education, it's not only exhibition, but it's also, so you can care about it, it's a very important part of GDP. And now Ourense's cultural fabric is often being sacrificed, often reprisaled, and, in any case, they're leaving him out of activity. In his hand he's reverting this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u258	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u259	Thank you very much, President. You speak of respect. You'll see. In April this year, you presented an initiative in this area, and you have not agreed until now to present it. From April until now he hasn't remembered you. Obviously, there was a demonstration in the middle, and you're trying to get in the car. That's why I say it's revealing, it's revealing its way of doing politics. But look, that trying to say that the Galician Union is not fulfilling cultural activity in the city of Ourense is absolutely a wish of little value or no value. I just gave you a report on cultural actions funded or co-financed by the Union. The Union obviously responds to its action, and I think it's tremendously revealing. And you, as I told you before, as a political force, could as well. If you try to transfer to the Government of the Union a responsibility that is not direct, with the same logic, I say to you: worry about Lugo. Why is it wrong for you to quote Lugo? Why is it wrong for you, as a political formation, to have nothing to say about having a closed cultural equipment, where nothing can be programmed, of 23 million euros? You'll say, what does that have to do with me? [[Murmurs.]] You're a political formation, and with the same logic that you apply to me, I apply it to you. Do not try to play with other cards, do not try to play with other cards. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look, from the perspective of Galician Union, we've done a job, I think, in recent years, very intense in favor of culture. In fact, it's the best management in the cultural sector. The cultural sector in Galicia is reopening after the pandemic situation, creating more businesses and more jobs. It's at the previous levels, it's at prepandemic levels and rising. It's data not of this advisor or of this perfidious political party; it's data from the Council of Culture of Galicia, which I understand you won't question. In any case, we are investing in cultural programming directly, in coordination with Parliament and in coordination with private institutions, associations and collectives in the city of Ourense. We are investing, as I said, every year in maintaining the main cultural containers: the great library We, the great provincial archive, the archaeological museum, which is autonomous management; we are also in the cathedral plan, rehabilitating the heritage of this cathedral complex. We've programmed more than seven million in the short term. Finally, we're doing what we have to do. And — I insist — it is revealing in a particular way of worrying about Ourense culture, when at the beginning of the year you introduce an initiative and do not activate it until today in the wake of a demonstration, which I am not going to question, obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u260	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u261	...but a cultural manifestation in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u262	Time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the protection measures developed in accordance with the decision to initiate the procedure to declare well of cultural interest to Casa Cornide, in Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u263	You have the word of Mrs. Complaines Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u264	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Just over a year ago, on November 17, 2020, this Parliament unanimously approved a non-legislative proposal to the authorities of the BNG urging the Galician Board to take the file to declare BIC the Cornide House of the Crown. This agreement was subsequently collected in the DOG of May 14, 2021, when it published the Resolution of the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, whereby the procedure is initiated to declare good cultural interest to Casa Cornide. The articulation of this resolution calls for the immediate and provisional application of the protection regime established by the Galician Cultural Heritage Act for BICs, for monuments in particular and for furniture. The same resolution warns you of a needle that can become a danger to consolidate the integral protection of the Cornide House of the Crown. The documentation prepared for the study of the cultural value of the property is not complete or up-to-date - so if it is collected - since it does not have recent information on the furniture of the interior which may also be susceptible to BIC cataloguing; information which, however, points to the permanence of relevant elements inside this building. The resolution published in the DOG describes that the protection regime for the monumental set of the Cornide House involves, among other things, the duty of conservation, access and public visit. After seven months of publication in the CEO, the BNG Parliamentary Group is concerned that it has not been established that it has been advanced in the development of the complete inventory of furniture that may be BIC to ensure its conservation as a public and collective heritage asset. And so, we've found that there are regulated aspects in this resolution that are being breached, as is the regulations referred to in your public visit, free of charge, a minimum number of four days a month for at least four hours a day, which will be defined beforehand. You know I'm also reading the resolution literally. At the moment, the [...] public regime does not exist and we do not know what strategies, what actions are being developed from the Government of Galician Union, so that this immediate failure to comply with the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage resolution by the Franco family, the current owner; a property to which, as others, we know today have been fraudulently accessed. That's why we ask you, Counsellor, what protection measures are being developed from the Government of the Union in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution whereby the procedure is in place to declare cultural interest to the Cornide House of the Crown.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, first of all, I would like to make it clear that neither this government nor this parliamentary group has any moral or political debt with franchise or any form of government, whether right or left, which is intolerant, which is based on totalitarianism or which acts against freedom. I'm saying it so that no kind of doubt is believed because sometimes these suspicions are cast. The second is that, from the very first moment, and in this particular case, we have been working to ensure maximum protection in the Cornide House, and we are doing so with the necessary technical solvency, shortening the time needed for the initiation of the file, and above all with great institutional loyalty. We started this file at the instances of the Town Hall, which formally requested it, and so we did. Obviously, then the BNG joined the car with an initiative. And what was done was to declare in record time the initiation of the file, once we received the information needed to be able to withstand the statement technically and with legal solvency. Once a file is filed, because it has the highest level of protection, and all the issues related to authorization, preservation, communications, transmission, etc., are linked to this figure of maximum protection. Also, of course, the transfer of furniture. In fact, this government in the Cornide House did something that was not done in other governments, for example in the Towers of Meirás, which was to declare the continent and the content. If in the Towers of Meirás he declared himself continent and content, we wouldn't be having the problems that we now have, with which we have to do things right and we have to do things meaningful. I also want to tell you that the very initiation of the file, by declaring content and continent, already hinders the administration from drawing, without any kind of communication, any good from within it. I mean, if you want to have a transfer of some good furniture, there has to be a communication, in this case, of the self-government. And as I've already said, if it had done well or if it had done so in the Towers of Meirades, we wouldn't be having the problems. As for the visits, of course, the legal mandate is what it is. It is also true that there have been allegations and that they have to be resolved before the concrete decisions are made, because, if the allegations submitted are not resolved, of course, we would enter into a legal situation of weakness. In any case, what I can tell you is that right now the only administration - the only one! - that did something in the scope of the Cornide House, beyond statements, is the Junta de Galicia. At the moment, a judicial process was announced, as far as we know it is not begun, and the Board fulfilled its task, which was declaring BIC this immovable, both the continent and the content, protecting, from the heritage perspective, the assets of cultural interest that may exist within it. And I think, as I said, until now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u268	...we don't know if the Town Hall of Coruña started the administrative process necessary to carry out the judicial process to recover, from the point of view of public space...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u269	Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Counselor. [[The Councillor for Culture, Education and University pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Replica, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u270	Thank you, President. Mr. Román Rodríguez, not small excuse, manifest accusation. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] Thank you, however, for focusing on Cornide da Coruña House -- because there is no other, so it is singular, simple and unique -- and thanks for not answering me, as did the companion who preceded me in the use of the word, of any other place or of any other heritage in the country. Well, you and I know that the primary and priority objective of a BIC file is precisely to shield the protection of heritage. Can you ensure here that the total and integral protection of the heritage that guards the Cornide House of the Crown is shielded? Can you please answer that question? Have the Council technicians visited the Cornide House, as it is collected in the resolution, so that they can now have a complete file, a complete inventory of BIC's likely cataloguing assets inside the Cornide House? How many visits did the Technical Staff of the Council within the Cornide House to have that report that truly blinds and ensures the monumental protection of the furniture of the Cornide House? What are the results, definitely, seven months later? What's that inventory? When are we going to have that full and comprehensive inventory? I ask you all these questions because you know as I do that the background is nothing reassuring. The police escorted, accompanied — it is now finally verified and clarified — the dictator's family. For nothing have they shown that they care about cultural heritage, which, on the other hand, is collective; at all. His hopes are different. You know that before this resolution even this house, the Cornide House, appeared for sale. That's the real interest the Franco family has in the Cornide House ; not, of course, as cultural protection. [[Applause]] You know that, very little before this resolution was published, there were neighbourly complaints -- that, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u271	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u272	...we picked up... from vans that were pulling out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u273	Thank you. Your time is up. The matter is already settled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u274	...their heritage. So please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u275	Thank you. Your time is up. Mrs. Complaints, we all understand it. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u276	Well, Mrs. Complaints, you know, or you should know, that since the beginning of a BIC good, the preservation of the cultural values of the good is guaranteed. He doesn't enter the property. A BIC never enters the property, we're not confused, but rather in the protection of cultural values. And from the very first moment that started, that protection came to the furniture and property, to the continent and to the content. I insist, if it had done so in the Towers of Meirás, many of the problems we have now we wouldn't have them. But they did the wrong thing that year. And here's the important thing: first, to do things in your time -- very important -- but do them well, from the legal perspective, and I think they're doing perfectly well. And what you let fall from the possibility of a transfer or deprotection of property is not true, because for any transfer there is a need for an express request to the Councillorate of Culture and to be authorized, not entering -- I insist -- the property of the good, which is the Town Hall that has to move pieces. The Galician Union has moved the piece and made the initiation of the file, and it must be the Town Hall that goes through the judicial route to declare the property of the good, as it has stated, and I understand that you are in favour. Look, we did it and we've been working together, working and protecting the cultural values of goods. We did it in the Towers of Meirades, we did it in the statues of Master Mateo and we are doing it here, loyally collaborating, without trying to extract political revenues and without trying to prove anything. And here it seems, as far as we can tell from the political conflicts in the Full City of Coruña, that there is like a sort of reading between you as a political formation and the PSOE as a political formation to see who carries the merit. And here's no question of taking merit, here's a question of taking, let's say, the final result in a positive way. [[Murmurs.]] In that sense, and in order for there to be no doubt about it, I will tell you, since the end of 2020, to present to us the Council of the Crown the request for the commencement of the procedure. We did it in May; in May we started the BIC file, continent and content. There's no administration that's done anything -- no one! -- Statements, many; do, nothing, nothing! And the only administration that did something for the cultural values of the Cornide House, so far, was the Council of Galicia. I wish tomorrow the Town Hall of Coruña had said to start legal proceedings in order to be able to claim property, just as it was done with the Towers of Meirás or just as it did in its time, losing judicially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u277	Thank you, Counselor. It's clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u278	...but in any case, we will continue to work faithfully and always with the utmost respect to the cultural values of these goods.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u279	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. Got it. The sixth point of the agenda, we take it back, interpelerations. Da Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the mobilization of the empty housing stock
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u280	Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u281	Good afternoon to all of you. Counsellor, you know that Galicia has a problem with the empty housing and that you, at the moment, are doing absolutely nothing to solve it. 18% of Galician homes are empty and unused. Almost one in five houses are empty in our country. It's the largest percentage of the entire state, and surely when we talk about empty housing and with this creepy data so many will think: where is this empty housing to reach 18%? For the first image that comes to all of us, of course, is all these thousands of empty dwellings in the villages that have been depopulated. Indeed, there is an important part of this empty housing bag that is linked to mass migration towards urban borders, above all there are three areas in the country where this is reflected more clearly: practically what is the entire area of the province of Ourense and Lugo, the Coast of Death and the Navy, which have municipalities where even 30% and up to 40% of the housing, of the total housing, is empty and unused. Gross figures! But to reach that 18% global at the Greek level, it's not only explained to the uninhabited dwellings of rural areas, but there's also an empty housing B face, which is the housing that was built in urban areas. Especially from the 1990s did it cease to be built according to a real necessity and began to be built under a purely speculative logic. So much so that in the last thirty years, the population census has dropped 100,000 people and half a million homes have been built. It is a brutal imbalance and hence 100,000 of the 300,000 empty dwellings were built between 1991 and 2011. And the characteristics of this second urban empty housing bag, above all, make it even more bloody that they don't use these dwellings. First, because it's a recently built house and therefore it's in good condition to be occupied. And second, because this housing is located in the same places where the problems of access to housing are concentrated, the same places where evictions increase, where rent prices increase, and where thousands of people wait for a protected housing registered in the Register of Housing Claimants. It's a real nonsense as a country that about 30% of the empty housing is concentrated in the seven big cities. And the 2007 crisis forced us to reflect on this fact, about a model that is absolutely tense, on the one hand, by an excessive increase in housing and, on the other, by an increase in the difficulties of access to housing. In this sense, the 2007 crisis was a turning point, of social and political inflexion, and from that point on, above all, of the year 2013 they began to develop new regulatory frameworks to address this problem, both in the European context and within the state itself by the various autonomous communities, which have the competences of housing. And one example of this is the laws developed in Catalonia, in Euskadi, in Valencia... each of them has its own approach, but there are a number of matching axes in all these laws, in this, let's say, advanced empty housing policy. The first of them is that they understand that housing has a social function, and that means that the owner, therefore, also has a number of obligations with regard to society. They also agree to implement tax pressure measures to encourage such housing to be placed on the free market and to discourage owners from leaving them empty. The third thing that all these laws share is that they also direct part of this empty housing to programs that improve access to housing; public programs that promote the owner to put that housing at affordable prices. And the room that shares all these regulations is that they are policies that distinguish types of owners, because it's not the same -- I think we can all agree -- a small owner who doesn't put his housing into rent because he doesn't have the money to fix it, for example, that a great owner who just has it closed because he has only a purely speculative logic. So they put policies that are equitable and that take into account a redistributive logic and the types of owners. We've been with all these legislative changes for over a decade in other autonomous communities, and the Government of Galicia is still taking no action, as if nothing happened. There was no postcrisis reflection 2007. And this development time of the regulatory framework gives us a perspective on the benefits that these kinds of measures have. I think it sends a very important message of paradigm change; it sends a message saying that housing is before to live that to speculate and that it generates a deterrent effect for those investors who have a strategy of accumulation of real estate assets, because that housing has to be in the market before it's empty, and that also implies, economically, as an economic model, having a less dependent economy than the fluctuations in the real estate market of construction. It also has the benefit that it makes all that housing flourish in the free market, both in rent and for sale, which also generates an increase in the offer that affects the cooling of the prices of the free market. It also has other benefits, such as the ability to create affordable housing with these programs so that people with little resources, such as young people or women who are victims of gender violence, are accommodated by these programs, and this allows us to temporarily cover up the water that we have of public park deficits that exist in the state as a whole. It also arouses an interest on the part of the market owner, which dynamizes a greater investment in rehabilitation and conservation and prevents the consumption of soil. So it's also a bet from the future as far as the most sustainable territorial model is concerned. Therefore, the benefits are direct to people who welcome rental programs at low prices, are positive to the population as a whole, because they reduce prices even from the free market, they are positive because they make us less vulnerable to the crises of real estate cycles, they dynamic rehabilitation and they bet on a more sustainable territorial model. And what did the People's Party do? what did you, Counselor all this time - moreover, I want to remember that you have ruled over all this time with most absolute and full competition in housing -? Well, they set up an empty housing program that has the dubious success of getting 30 homes out in four years. They managed to mobilize 30 homes across the country in four years. It's a failure that is even recognized by the director himself of the Galego Institute of Living and Solo. [[Applause]] The second thing they did was put in a series of aids consisting of rehabilitation aid for owners amounting to 8,000 euros, in exchange for mobilizing that housing; 8,000 euros for each housing. Well, the execution of that departure in 2020 was EUR 6,907, and it is therefore deductible, Counsellor, who must have financed the rehabilitation of a single housing throughout the country. I don't know if you manage a county or if you manage a country's housing policy. [[Applause]] Now he took out a new measure a few months ago, which was supposed to address the state of abandonment of the rural nuclei by creating a kind of page of ads from villages for sale; a great effort on the part of his council that goes out also with successful figures: they managed to advertise two dwellings throughout Galicia, the two in Sober, which, of course, went to take the picture on the day the program opened, and never knew again. [[Applause]] Over five years ago, they launched an empty housing census program, where it is mandatory to register all properties held by financial institutions, real estate activities and even asset management entities. Five years after they created that census that was supposed to serve for something more than to have a census, the reality is that it had no real impact, because what they did was to announce that they created that census in a context where there was a lot of social discontent, but immediately they put it in a box; and, in addition, they put it in a box under the key, because they refuse to give us information to advise the council of that census, as we have already asked you with oral questions and even through article 9. [[Applause]] Yours, definitely, is a planned failure, Counselor, because I think this data I'm taking out would embarrass anyone with the responsibility you have, but I think that you, in fact, had no interest in achieving success in this matter, if you hadn't, at least, assumed some responsibility, changed something, but it seems that nothing happens in the Council. It's time, Counselor, for them to end this policy of cross-arms, for Galicia to take her powers and make housing policy that puts us in the vanguard and not in the queue position of the entire state; it's time for Galicia to make her own housing policy, taking into account the unique features of Galicia's real estate park, the territorial model we have and the structure of the property. And that means developing a multiple strategy that takes into account these two major empty housing sectors mentioned at the outset -- on the one hand, which has to do with rural and urban migration processes, and the other that has to do with speculation. And also a proposal that takes into account that differentiation between the type of owner, because it's not the same owner that chooses to have an empty housing because its only function is purely speculative, which does not have money, for example, to fix it. Promotion policies must be combined with dissuasive policies and tax policies. It's time for a policy designed to respond to this urban reality in Galicia that concentrates the highest demand for housing in Galicia. Galicia has to have, once and for all, a regulation, as it is developing in other autonomous communities. I, frankly, heard them not even a reflection. I don't know if you have some kind of strategy in this respect, but it's a subject that's not clear on your priorities and what they don't mean. In short, it is time for the empty housing policy of vanguard, so that the residential stop of a bank is the housing at accessible prices of that young man who can be emancipated, and for the dozens, the hundreds of housing in the hands of financial institutions become accessible housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u282	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u283	...for the lowest rent. It's also time to help small owners rehabilitate that housing, but also to reform it and put it at affordable prices. This is what you have to decide, Counselor: if Galicia rises to these new policies of empty vanguard housing, or if you want to turn from Galician Union into a bastion where the empty dwelling, where the dwelling in general, remains conditioned by a purely speculative logic. You have to decide which model you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Fernández, listen very carefully; contribute with serious proposals to mobilize the empty housing, of course; lessons, none. Lesson should be given by you, after all that you have said, to certain mayors, as it may be to the mayor of Pontevedra, to which is given by the Board of Galicia a residential solar to build public housing and destined for the parking lot. One thing is to talk here and another thing is when you rule. So you know that there are a number of competences that you have to exercise the Galician Union and that there are certain competences that must be shared, also with the municipalities. So one day again in this Parliament we are dealing with everything about empty dwellings; a concern that, of course, we share. I share the concern of having lived empty in Galicia with you. It's different what they do; you just preach and the rest of us do is act. I think we all agree that it is necessary to mobilize unused housing to get them out of the market, to get them to go into the rental market, and for that, the owners must have legal certainty, and of course, what you intend to do will hardly have legal security for these owners. And the mobilization goes by granting these guarantees; guarantees in which we should talk to the owners. Each administration has a number of responsibilities, and here's to give data. When you talk about 18% of the dwellings in Galicia are empty, we start from a base, and that base is the IGE; 1.6 million homes in Galicia, of which you say 300,000 are empty housing. What you don't say is the truth, because you know that within these 300,000 empty dwellings most of them are in ruins. I understand that you don't want those ruined dwellings to go out for rent, because everyone needs a home to live in and that home to be decent. So if someone is competing with the definition of empty housing, it's not to the Galician Union, it's not to the autonomous communities, it's to the central government, and there we're waiting and we haven't got an answer yet. The only thing we have on the table, Mrs. Fernández, is a draft law which, of course, is unconstitutional to all light, and where the definition of empty housing, in principle, is that housing which has been without activity for two years, that is, without that intended social use. Having said this, it's about moving forward, after putting the clear things on the table, because it seems that only a few have competences and the others just teach lessons. We have to do something more than teach. So, from the German Government we worked and moved forward, and we also took measures and reformulated a program in which we had to work all by hand, and in which the least worked were those municipalities where there is a demand, which are those of the cities, which did not adhere to the program of empty housing, and which they had to manage, Mrs. Fernández, but which they did not want to do. So, since the Galician Union, as we're not leaving anyone behind, and since in those cities where there's this demand, certain mayors have decided to take a step back and not forward, we're launching a new program, a new program that we reformulate and that we also collect in the Social Pact for the housing of the year 2011-2015. A point that precisely refers to the start-up, which allows you to mobilize as many dwellings as possible, to rent them at an affordable price. We know that the central government, in addition, is working on the housing plan; housing plan that we should already have in place and that I suppose that you, who are in conformity with certain things, should know, but that they are delaying it in time. So it's still extending the housing plan that came from the People's Party. Right now, the central government, in that housing plan, aims for a very similar program that will put together the Council of Galicia, but with far lower claims for renters and also for owners. And within these claims is that the aid for decentration or rehabilitation is EUR 4,000, instead of the EUR 8,000 that puts on the table at Junta de Galicia. But it does not provide, Mrs Fernández, any supplementary aid, nor does it include any kind of insurance. And so you can hardly give legal security to these small owners because in Galicia you're tired of repeating and talking once and a thousand times of great forebears, when there are almost no large forebears in Galicia, there are the small owners. We're still, of course, talking about a draft that we don't know when it's going to become a reality. Since June we have decided not to wait, even though it has to be them who define the concept of empty housing. And we've been running -- and we've also got it closed -- to start early in January, the new reformulation, the new formula to take over from Galicia's board and mobilize the empty housing park, which in no case is the 300,000 of what you're talking about repeatedly. Main novelty we introduced? The Union will directly manage this program, in which, with the aim of mobilizing as many housing as possible, we will count on the collaboration of some municipalities, estate managers and real estate agents. We are facing a new program that offers legal security to housing owners, with rent insurance, multi-risk home insurance, as well as access to rehabilitation and housing adaptation aids. In the same way, tenants will be able to accommodate the rental aid they call each year, and will encourage the lease of homes with grants of up to 8,000 euros for the owners who join this program. You know there are pensioners who have a flat to rent, but if they have to make an investment, they're likely to have it empty. Well, that's where we're gonna be next to him. Finally, the owners of the homes hosted by the program can benefit from tax subsidies, of course, if this is done by the municipalities where they are located. But what we need is collaboration, this collaboration between local authorities, especially the big cities, which is where there is demand. It is also necessary to provide information to the potential beneficiaries of this program, who are the owners of empty properties, so that we can enable homes for the people or families who need it most, especially in cities, as can be the case of Vigo, first of all, the case of the Crown, secondly, or the case of Pontevedra, thirdly. And you should know that. But that's not all we're focusing on. The housing pact is an investment of 1,600 million euros over these four years and it involves other areas of action, such as the main avalanche, so that Thursdays can acquire a housing. And all this isn't about us because we want to, the government because it wants to, but we're talking to society, Mrs. Fernández. We are not in possession of the truth, what we do is talk to everyone; and talking to everyone is having a housing observatory, and having a housing observatory is supposed to have representatives of the different issues. Therefore, depending on that, different strategies will be drawn out. Then, drawn up in this framework, within the framework of the Observatory, we will draw forward this action, as we have seen others do. And then, who's contributing? For it is contributing the IGVS, with its technicians, of course; it is contributing to the Fegamp, which has different representatives; and is the Official College of Architects of Galicia, the Official College of Finance Administrators, the College of Real Estate Agents, the Galego College of Consumers and Users, the Galego Council of Colleges of Technical Devices and Architects, the Galega Construction Federation, the Federation of Soil Promoters and Buildings in Galicia, as well as the Galaga Union of Housing Cooperatives. They're all those who quantify and they're the ones who give their ideas every month; ideas that we move to society to mobilize as many housing as possible. Sometimes you question yourself, I suppose because these representatives are despised by all of you, but they are the ones who do, and we are next to you. Not at all, Mrs. Fernández! I come here and I explain to you what the social pact for housing consists of. That said, let's move on. Together, she's working to secure access to housing, and she's doing it from different sources. I'll tell you that on the way we meet with obstacles and, within these obstacles, there's the draft housing law, which I suppose you won't agree with; or maybe yes, I don't know. Totally unconstitutional! Then I repeat: how does the empty housing define? Well, she's been unemployed for two years. And what is the solution that puts on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u286	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u287	...the central government? Well, the possibility of charging up to 150 percent of IBI to those homes that have been unemployed for more than two years. But put the job on them. To whom? To the municipalities, who are the ones who have to execute him, Mrs. Fernández. And the mayors quickly went out saying that none of those ways. Well, they're the ones who have the competition, they're the ones who charge the IBI...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u289	...don't charge the IBI on Galician board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u290	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u291	Counselor, poor IGVS technicians with you, because you say there are no 300,000 empty homes. You have a council and a Galician Housing Observatory that issued a report on the empty dwelling in Galicia. I don't know if you've read the report. If you read that report, that report says that in Galicia there are 300,000 empty dwellings. I suppose it was done by technicians of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. [[Applause]] But, of course, these technicians do their job well, because what they do is they're based on official statistical data. [[Applause]] And where do they get that data? Of the only housing census we have reliable right now, which is the latest census prepared by INE. There's no other one. Do you have any other data? Because you, to say that this figure is not true, might have done a housing census in Galicia. If you have, you should pull it out; and if you don't, you can't say that those figures are not real if you don't have any information and if your own Vivenda Observatory issues a report saying that that's the situation. You don't have any data to swallow the things you say. Whoever works with data is the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, by the Observatory, issuing the reports, which do so with rigour and extracting the data. And in that data, we're based. I hope you take your own officials seriously! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] One of the things he said — which I also worried a lot — is that we don't know that most of these homes are in ruins. One of the things that this report of the Galician Housing Observatory says is that the empty housing park in Galicia has a singularity, and that the empty housing concentrates on the year of construction, especially at the extremes, where it was built before 1900, but also on the recently built housing. In fact, if we go to the construction year of this empty housing, the highest ratio is in the housing built in the last decade; and only between the 1990s and 2011, add a third of the entire empty housing. So that idea that you throw away that empty housing is a question of what's in ruins, that that would cost a lot of work and that it's in rural areas is false. There is a very important part of this housing that is in urban contours, which has recently been built, which is about to enter into housing and which is not put into the market because it is made uniquely and exclusively to speculate. That's where you have to go; that's what all autonomous communities are entering to regulate and it's an autonomous competition. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] How come you come here to say that it is unconstitutional to the state housing law of the state? We agree that he invades competences, but then you don't exercise them! It is your competence to regulate housing, as the rest of the autonomous communities do. [[Applause]] And it doesn't have to be the municipalities that apply the programs, you can apply them directly, like you do, for example, Catalonia, or how you do it, for example, Valencia. [[Applause]] If you wanted, you could; what happens is that you're legislating for failure. And I gave him the data. Your housing advisor's data is a failure: 30 houses mobilized in four years. I guess I wouldn't know that I was going to come to you with the real execution data of the aid you came here to report, because you just sold me the €8,000 rehabilitation aid program and I just gave you the 2020 execution data, which was a €150,000 match and ran €6,907, when the aid was €8,000 per housing. And if they shouldn't rehabilitate a housing almost! [[Applause]] How can you come here to sell me that program? You have to change politics because the policies you're implementing are failing. They have to make policies. And the future, the housing policies of vanguard, are going through fiscal tax measures, because there has to be a redistributive logic and not what you intend to do. Because one of the things that concerns us very much about the new housing pact is that you for the first time intend to do something about the empty housing census. Let's remember that the empty housing census is the housing of Sareb's financial institutions and real estate subsidiaries. For what you intend to do with these housing is to rent them for children under 35 years of age, which consists of—pay attention!— Sareb's residence. The board is going to give her 8,000 euros directly just to put her away for rent. Do you have any kind of counterbalance...? Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you have any kind of price reduction consideration? No, no, no, no. They also force you to imagine a 28-year-old boy who comes in to take that housing. Turns out you have to pay a security deposit of up to 5% of the housing price. In a dwelling of €150,000, that boy who comes in is going to put a bail of €7,500 first. Sareb will be very happy because nothing more will make the rent contract will already have 8,000 euros from the board and 7,500 from the young boy. If in five years you decide not to buy it, if you don't end up buying that housing, the entity stays with the bail that put that young boy and he won't even pay a lower income for the rent, he'll pay the free market price. I mean, a drop! Five years without that, in the end, buy the house, and that entity collects the rents at the free market price and the sum of the 8,000 euros plus the boy's 7,500. [[Applause]] That's what you're doing, policies to benefit financial entities. We have to go in the opposite direction, to where everyone is going, which is that precisely those entities have an obligation because housing has a social function; and therefore, as owners of that, they have an obligation for society. That means those housings have to be put on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u293	...at affordable prices to cover the housing deficiencies that exist right now. They correct housing policies once and for all, Counselor, because yours is a real failure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u295	Thank you, Mr. President. We're moving forward, Mrs Fernández. Thank you for recognizing IGVS technicians for their work! It's been hours! It's been hours! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Secondly, when you read the reports, read them in full because the menu revolution gave you here about Sareb and bail! Look, bail is what we put on, and we put on bail, and we're the second autonomous community that we're going to set them up, along with Murcia. Up to 15% will put down the Galician Union for those young people who want to buy a house. These are housing policies. Having said this, I tell you, Mrs. Fernández, that the only thing we want with this program is to dynamize empty dwellings; empty dwellings that are undefined, that have to be defined by the central government. The 300,000 dwellings there are all kinds of dwellings, and you know that many of them are in ruins and, as they are not defined, you have to count them. But tell the truth and don't do demagogy here. From then on, the empty housing mobilization programme will be managed directly by the Galician Board and will offer advantages: among others, for owners, legal security — through different coverages — and aid for arrangements or priority in access to loans for non-interest-free rehabilitation; on the other hand, advantages for tenants with limited incomes and aid for tenants with difficulties; and, thirdly, advantages also for the municipalities, who can mobilize their homeless housing park. In addition, Junta will actually provide direct help to the owners to perform repair and improvement of housing, so that they can expand to the market those immovables. And in addition, these homes will be destined for low-income homes, equivalent to those necessary for access to a protected housing in general regime. They will be located — because there we are going to focus, Mrs Fernández, and that is why we have to refuse it, because they did not want to do so in the municipalities — where there is a greater demand for housing in rent. But this is not the only formula we have to mobilize these kinds of real estate, since we have other initiatives. And as you're now talking about 30, or you're talking about 1 -- and I've been here last year -- I've heard that only 3 public promotion homes in the last five years -- well, nothing, I'm going to talk to you about just three lines, three lines, which have made it easier for you to access the housing during the last year -- which has not finished -- to 217 people through various programs. Within these programmes, we have, on the one hand, the granting of 65 housing aid in 21 historic centres, of which 41% were targeted to minors. The game has run out, we'll expand it next year in 2022. 112 aids were also granted, Mrs Fernández, in 70 municipalities for the acquisition of housing in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. It was a program that also ran out of credit and so we're going to expand it in 2022. And also, in another programme -- and I'm just talking to you about 3 of the 19 that's going on in Galicia's Union -- we've given 40 help to facilitate the acquisition of a new or rehabilitated self-promoting housing, in which the budget has also been exhausted. I would remind you, so that you may know — and also after the vote on the budgets and the approval of them — that the Council for the year 2022 includes some EUR 60 million intended to facilitate access to housing for citizens in Galicia. There are, of course, direct actions on the part of the Union to increase the number of public promotion dwellings, assisted by a rental scheme; to foster protected housing; to subsidize rents from public promotion housing or to facilitate citizens' access to housing by rent schemes through the aid for paying them — as may be the social rent bonus — and there are 14,5 million euros in the year 2022 intended exclusively for aid for rent payment. Finally — and to close what we want — it is to make it easier for the Greeks and the Greeks, in different ways possible, to access a decent housing, and above all to focus on those especially vulnerable groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u296	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the Policy of the Galician Union on Conflicts between Batteries and Understanders
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u297	Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u298	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The people who were in the morning session will know perfectly what I'm going to refer to now before I begin my intervention. Some people go to the bank because they want to. There are other people who drive them out of the playing field and there's no choice but to go to the bench. And there are other people who are forced to go to the bank, among other things because, as 99% of the women in this country are dependent people's caregivers, after five years they're still waiting for a square in a public residence. Of course, what I am truly satisfied with is that the doors of my house have always been open to be able to return. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, over the past ten years the German fishing industry has lost more than 500 vessels. Social Security membership in the fisheries and aquaculture regime has fallen by about 20% since 2009. And in the shellfish we had 4,755 permits on foot and today we have 3,700. The data from the Galician Waters Dump Control Plan have just found that in 2020 — let alone leave us behind — 249 pollutants were detected to the Welsh rivers — only the contaminants, because in general there were more than 600 —. The data from 2021 — including Galician Waters — until September alone were 265 spills of pollutants to the Galician rivers, exceeding by September all 2020. The data yell at voices what the Union shuts and hides: that the actions of the German Government in sanitation and debugging are totally insufficient and therefore fishing, seafood and mexillow production is suffering increasing consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the young people — and much less the young women — find none, absolutely no encouragement, no incentive, to join the fishing and seafood activity for more than a decade. Today, December 22, 2021, there are some Greek ships that are forced to stay at the port because they have no crew to sail with or to make. Today, in the face of a truly pressing problem for our fishing sector, the Union and the People's Party have just approved — even yesterday — budgets for 2022, where only a share of €300,000 appears for the incorporation of Thursdays into fishing activities, the same as €300,000, which in 2021 and that in 2020, when the Council still seemed to it many and reduced by EUR 100,000 to 2019. You might, ladies and gentlemen, continue to give data in this line that clearly illustrates year after year the real defeat that entails policies that are being applied to a sector that is discouraged, tired and desperate, and that only thinks at this point in time to know whether you can ask for a subsidy for your boat. Well, in this context that I have just described, the Council of the Sea still allows the luxury of bringing to the last consequences that maximum of "eme dot" Rajoy that sometimes the best decision is not to make any decision — which is also a decision. And that decision, as I say, only takes the Sea Council, which is supposed to be the one here to defend the sea sector. Take it from Galicia. In this case, there's no counselor, the one who blames him or where to send the ball. These are not policies which are imposed by the European Union — for now — with the support or without it of the People's Party, nor are they an attack by the Spanish State — which, in fact, now and before, has little of our fishing — nor, ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing to do with the opposition groups, particularly the BNG. The decision not to do anything in the matter of mexillary extraction, the joint decision to invite the mexillary sector to the last plenary session — from your own mouth, Counsellor — around, I don't know, of 10 or 12 times sitting in dialogue, to attend the meeting you called for last Wednesday; the decision to literally strike the table and stand up from the meeting you yourself called — without the slightest gesture or the slightest willingness to mediate, to negotiate, to dialogue, not to impose—, Counsellor, that responsibility is exclusively yours. All these decisions are exclusive and solely from the Sea Council. The extraction of the mussel is from its competence — few, by the way, it has the Council of the Sea. And now, precisely at the root of all this conflict, we have become more clear why you've been 12 years without asking for a single competition: because, when you have it, Counselor, you don't know or don't want to manage it or you have the blame for your mismanagement. [[Applause]] You, Counselor, have been in the same responsibility for twelve years. In those twelve years there were conflicts between the drummers and the concierge—in most cases punctually, though not minor—. In these twelve years you have rejected a regulation that already existed: the order of 26 October 2000 — I insist, of the year 2000 —. And when it happened to you, ten years later — ten years in which the sectors were capping as they could and every time they had problems between them, the Counsellor was neither expected nor expected — when it happened — as I say, ten years later — to pass a regulation, they do it by decree, the November 21, 2019 decree, which is not talked to anyone and which leaves everyone more dissatisfied than it was. Repeat, Counselor, it's too bad for you, always the same mistakes. The modus operandi is always the same. It just happened, right, with the resolution of August's Galician Ports on recreational fishing, which had been banned for almost fifty years. You have to make a resolution in the middle of August with maps, plans and so on that you didn't agree with anyone, and that you've finally become completely disgruntled and angry at everyone. With the extraction of the cheek just happened exactly the same. A year ago, the Director General of Aquaculture answered the BNG in the Fisheries Commission, a series of questions that were raised to you in connection with the conflicts between drummers and fellows in the 2019-2020 campaign; conflicts that occurred just after you passed the 2019 decree with the Marine Resources Conservation and Exploitation Regulations. And we are convinced that these conflicts came precisely at the root of that decree. So, a year ago, we were asking about the functioning and conclusions of a work table announced by the Council itself in June 2020, in which we wanted to discuss with both sectors different aspects so that conflicts do not take place again. The director general replied that the working group was working, that several meetings had already been held and that the regulations and proposals were being analyzed because they wanted to make a regulation that was not only for one campaign, but that it was going on over time. That is to say, when the meetings of the working table were supposed to be being held, the Council approved the decree — of course not agreed with the sectors that were part of that table —. As you can see, it's a studyable negotiator technique. I mean, we're sitting around at the table and suddenly we're taking a decree and we hope nothing happens. Well, in that regulation, Madam Counsellor, the point which is disturbing — especially in this case the mexillary sector — is raised by point 13.2 and which is precisely what they want to eliminate. Point 13.2 says: "Perceiver management plans may reserve areas for the extraction of mexillon seed." It's a line and a half. We, Counsellor, are convinced, indeed, that if there was political will, it would not even be necessary for this point to appear in this way, we really are convinced. After months, Counsellor, without any agreement, without more mirage—the same as he did with sport fishing—and pressed by tensions between the sectors, the Council said a resolution on November 29th, i.e. on the eve of December 1st begins the campaign to extract the cheek.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u299	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u300	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. He said a resolution on November 29 which, of course, was not agreed with anyone. And get out of the sleeve some plans, like you did with sports fishing, some maps, a zoning, which says where they can pull a cheek and where they don't. Of course, we fully understand that in this case the mexillary sector has risen from the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u302	Because after weeks without calling them to speak, without showing him and proposing that zoning, you take it out of your sleeve and say, "This is the law." So, Counsellor, we believe that we cannot act. I continue in the second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Forgive the comment we're making here, but our ignorance is so great that we didn't know -- most of us here -- what the cheek is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know, we're from the inside, but, well, here we didn't know either. If we ask about Ourense or about it, maybe the surprise is great too. That's why there's for everyone here. [[Murmurs.]] I see they were laughing a lot around here, but I don't know who would know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u304	Reply by the sea advisor, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u305	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez, before I come in to give you an answer to the question you have about the battery sector and the sense sector, I will only give you a data to tell you that I don't know if you're confusing the legislation that goes from the year 2009 to the current one from 2005 to 2009, because the data you brought here give us some reflections. From 2005 to 2009 he ruled the Bipartite in Galicia, ruled the PSOE in Madrid, and we lost 45% of fishing opportunities. From 2009 to 2018 we have been increasing fishing opportunities. The classification of production areas as C areas — where the seafood could not be removed for the market — was left with a report to which she was a fisheries advisor between 2005 and 2009 to take care of these areas, which had to be cured because otherwise they could not market the seafood produced in those areas. And all they did was pay people for not going to work, but they haven't healed any areas. Galicia's production and classification areas have improved since 2009 until now much more than you're saying here. [[Applause]] But, finally, what we came to today, I think, was talking about the problems between the coastal sector and the sense sector. As you can imagine, both the entire team of the Council of the Sea and myself have been, we are and will be in constant contact with the two parties involved to improve the regulation of the extraction of mussels in natural banks, as it is an important, complex matter and, of course, it takes time to move forward, as it requires a meeting point between the interests of the two collectives who share work areas. The work being done aims to analyze all the regulations and the different proposals to set long-term regulation, as the fundamental objective is to consensualize a rule that lasts over time. A working table was set up with representatives of both groups, shipowners' associations and fishermen's confrries, to try to reach consensus on the future of activity management. So we understand that this valuation must be done at the end, because so far that consensus has not been possible. In any case, jobs are always positive and we understand that all contributions are lawful and try to defend the interests of each collective. In addition, we must bear in mind that all parties must maintain a basic premise: the achievement of responsible, rational and sustainable exploitation of marine resources and the development of a sustainable activity in biological but also economic and environmental terms. Sign it, as you well say, ten days ago, and I point it back now: we have of course that this maximum applies to all sectors, to those of fishing, to those of seafood and also to those of aquaculture, and we work for all sectors to go ahead and meet that premise. So, I want to understand that both the mitilicator sector and the specific resource extractor try to do things well, and in their practice all strictly comply with the rules they have written. If someone doesn't comply with the rules, he must and can be prosecuted and punished, because those behaviors don't fit in a sustainable exploitation of resources. In any case, added to the work of both sides, we must add one more part, that of the Board. What have we been doing until now? Yeah, look, several questions. On the one hand, to conduct studies on the presence of each resource in the rocks, both from the mussel and the perception, and to curry those areas of special sensitivity for it to perceive it as exempt areas of mexillary extraction that may endanger that resource for the future. On the other hand, we proceed to strictly delineate the extraction areas within each plan of understanding in view of their proportionality and the necessary coverage of the mexillary extraction. With these measures, only 16% of the total coastal areas of the Coruña and Pontevedra are heard today, being in this accounting already excluded both the beaches and parts of the spaces of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands which were already restricted for the extraction of the mussel for many years, without new measures being incorporated in these areas. These areas are almost the same as we had to reduce in the year 2021, and it can be said that this reserve of areas has not limited, or much less, the capacity to replenish itself, since the figure of this extracted seed has multiplied by three in the last triennium despite this measure. In addition, we proceed with the drafting of a draft order for the regulation of the collection of mexillon seed, for the regulation of extraction in both natural banks and their direct achievement in bats. This initiative was known by all parties, which pointed out all the claims, many of them opposed to each other within the same sector, which caused a difficulty in advancing the definition. This work has always been accompanied by information to both sectors, since during 2020 and until early in December a part rose from the table were called representatives of the shippers to negotiate with the confrereries federations. Among the issues that were estimated to be negotiated at that time, more than a year ago, were the delimitation of areas, possible flexibility measures and some others, such as the impossibility that the conceivables could not extract the mussel in the demarcated areas — question introduced at the request of the confrereries themselves. In addition, six meetings of the Mexican Commission were held during the year 2021 and additional meetings were given to drummers and representative entities, as well as at least eight other meetings with confrries and federations. It should be recalled that at one of the meetings of the Mexican Bureau on October 27, the possibility of reserve areas for the realization was communicated, always in accordance with the rigorous justification of the requests and the audit of their relevance by the Administration. In any case, we know that it is important to keep moving forward towards the future in that line of sustainability. And for that, dialogue is still important. We need to talk about moving forward an open approach, and that's what I'm asking for, and that's also what I'm offering. This is what we did and kept at the last meeting held last week with the representatives of the main battery associations, where we showed our willingness to make proposals. At that meeting we offer five proposals to move forward. The first and the immediate one is focused on analysing the allegations presented to the order delineating the extraction areas of mexillon seed and on seeing the possibility of flexibility in the affected areas — the question we are at the moment —. Of course, of the six allegations received, one indicates discrepancies in matters other than this issue, four are about the legal and substantive spirit of the rule and one about claims for flexibility in the areas. So we're in that analysis. The other four proposals made to meet the needs of the Miticultural sector made by the Administration are: first, to simplify the number of collector strings and the time of deployment; second, to keep the mexillary extraction open throughout the year; third, the installation of seed hatcheries; and fourth, the creation of specific polygons for collector strings. Of course, we only had a counter proposal in terms of prior requirement to negotiate, which was based on the withdrawal of the article that allows the extraction zones to be defined, a limitation of the areas we have been talking about with the drummers for more than a year. It should be remembered that this withdrawal would, on the one hand, clash with the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that says that the management plans of the perception are the framework in which measures to protect this crustacean should be evaluated when it coexistes with the cheekbone, and also with the rigorous technical reports that point to the need to modify the working areas for sustainable exploitation of the cheekbone and the perception. We remain open to dialogue, we remember that the measures taken seek to ensure balanced coexistence and adequate protection of the interests competing in the exploitation of the cheekbone and of the perception. Since then, I repeat once again that we have the hand in dialogue and that we offer ourselves to continue working to advance in the debate of proposals already offered for the future of both the coastal and the understandable sector. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u306	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Pérez Fernández's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u307	Counsellor, why do you offer again, for the last time, you here, in parliamentary headquarters, something you won't give? Why does it offer a dialogue, a call to sit down, to dialogue, to negotiate, when, Counselor, the people who are more or less on this subject, who have contacts with each other, we know that at last week's meeting you were, the Council, who didn't want to reach any agreement, Counselor? So don't come here now to offer what you won't give. Offer as far as you're willing to go. [[Applause]] And I ask you a very specific question, Counselor. You're talking about that zoning, those maps, those plans — that you present to the sector the day before a new campaign, the 2021-2022 — is going to be followed by rigorous technical reports. Of course, then we asked ourselves the following — and I suppose the sectors, the two, too, are asking themselves this or something—: where were the rigorous technical reports and, above all, where were the technicians up to now so that the problem would remain unresolved and that the stress situation we have at this time would have encouraged the Council itself with its inaction, Counsellor? Where were the technicians? [[Applause]] Now technicians — as they usually pass with the People's Party — are used to justify the imposition of the Sea Council on the sectors. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, we are able to publicly recognize you here that the task you have is not easy. We're able to recognize him here, we recognize him before anyone needs it. Now, it's much more difficult when the person and the people who are from the Sea Council, who have certain responsibilities, don't assume them and want to go marking the water and, from there, nobody gets out! And so, Counselor, it can't work. [[Applause]] Look, we've been here for years, Counselor, decades, haven't we? —the mexillary sector fifty years, sixty years, I don't know, where the two sectors, more or less, actually, have conflicts at some point. Above all, when there are problems, of a kind that is biological, etc., that actually doesn't allow a lot of piss to exist, or when the drummers have problems to remember, etc. Well, it's been years. And, of course, during those years -- it's all -- when nothing happens, because the sea councillor sits in his office waiting for what happens. And now it's happening, Counselor, and your attitude is not being mediated. No, no, your attitude — again to repeat — is to mark a line and hence nobody moves. [[Applause]] But, look, we have two sectors — the mexillary sector and the sense sector — in which, of course, we cannot afford the luxury — another luxury — of losing a single job, in either of the two sectors, in any one! So you have to understand. And you have to do that work that you understand. We have two sectors which in all these years have received — on the one hand, the confrereries, and on the other hand, the organisations of mexillors — hundreds — would say dozens, but not — hundreds, hundreds, hundreds of millions! from the Sea Council itself — usually from European funds — to investigate precisely ways of cultivation, whether from the cheek or from the natural environment. We would like to know where the results of all these studies are or what has been done, in any case, with those money, and only to conclude the following: we are in the twenty-first century, and an absolutely pointer and pioneer sector throughout Europe, as is the mexillary sector, cannot be at the expense of these circumstances, after all life, whether there is a stir or not in the stones and that the Counsellor for the Sea allows her to go to pick up — which is absolutely necessary — for her work. [[Applause]] Finished, Counselor. The People's Party in this Parliament, in 2019, had written, among many other things — because the role of everything, indeed — the following text: "The Galician Parliament urges Galician Parliament to continue working..."—to continue working is the typical periphrase that uses the People's Party whenever it does nothing and says "continue working"...""The Galician Parliament urges Galician Union to continue working on the review of the activity of the extraction of the cheek..."—the year 2019, uh!— "...with the two sectors involved in order to adapt its compatibility and ensure its history..."—in fact—"...understanding, in mutual benefit and safeguarding the interests of the light and battery sector". [[Applause]] Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u309	...all those options that you said you offered them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u311	...to the mussels at the last meeting — on 10, 15 or the day of December that was — where have you been all these years? To be more accurate, where have you been, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u312	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation by the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez, I don't know who gave you any information about last week's meeting, but of course, tell him to think carefully about what happened at that meeting. At that meeting the Council, once again, came in a spirit of dialogue and of building. And there was one inside the meeting that came with a single objective: "Or you're either derogating the rule or we're getting up, or you're derogating the rule or we're getting up..." That's very hard to talk about. But since that time I keep in touch with representatives of the associations and we keep talking. And they're still looking for data to bring us into a deal. Look, my line of dialogue has always been quite clear since the first day I arrived at the Councillory. And you can talk to the drummer sector representatives, who, if they tell you the truth, will tell you that as early as 2009 I proposed to make a strategic plan for the battalion sector in Galicia. They told me they didn't need it. And it's absurd for the Administration to make a strategic plan without taking into account the needs of the sector itself. My hand still tends to make that strategic plan. I am concerned about the need to ensure the supply of seed for the development of the battery sector, and so I bring it to the sector year after year. They have divisions of opinion between themselves, they're not able to reach an agreement. I'm not from me break and tear, as you're trying to say here what I have to do. I'm from the open dialogue. From my point of view, as a biologist, I understand that the most logical thing would be to have opened up all year round the possibility of collecting a cheek. That would allow every producer to go and accommodate their production to the needs of the market for what he's working for. There are groups in favour and other groups against. When they agree, we'll make that decision. I needed the possibility of expanding the number of collector ropes before I asked for my own sector. There is also division of views in the sector itself. Some people want collector strings and some people don't want collector strings. I propose this same year, in the grids that we have vacancies in certain polygons that may be likely to stick these collecting ropes to the mexillon seed, to place a polygon of mexillon collector ropes to be able to supply a mussel to all those producers who, because they have bats located in an inner area of rivers, cannot have access to that seed. I have him in charge. And there's a project also funded for the development of a Hatchery for the production of mussel. There's also part of the sector that wants it, and there's part of the sector that doesn't. I'm still taking all the steps. And I've always been on the line, firstly, that it wasn't necessary to regulate whether fellows and drummers came to understanding; and that, if we had to regulate, we had to have clear technical reports that allowed us to make the timely decisions that would ensure the future of the battery sector and also the future of the sector of understanding. And that's why they applied, from the publication of the decree, the reports of the technicians, who have been following both the cheek and the evolution of the perception in the different plans of exploitation that they make since 2009. And so we have the coast studied every 100 meters from the Ortegal cable to the peak of the Picos in the Guard's cove. You may doubt all the work we're doing. I can assure you that our only goal is to achieve a sustainable exploitation of both the perception and the cheekbone. We have already achieved — not because we say so, but because this is what we believe in a study by the University of Vigo, which has received a prize from the European Union — that the best exploitation of a natural resource throughout the European Union is that of the realization in Galicia, and that is believed. And that sustainability with which we're exploiting the realization we'll also get it with the exploitation of the cheekbone. [[Applause]] And we — as I say to you — continue in the same line. You were reading a motion that was passed here in the Galician Parliament, which said what was the position of the People's Party. It didn't change that posture, we continued to do the studies and dialogue with the two sectors. The only position that has changed within this Parliament was the position of the Galician Nationalist Block. The position of the Galego Nationalist Block was in 2008 that we were supposed to seal out the extraction areas of the perception so that the drummers could not get in there. Remember it or don't you remember it? Because if not, I've got it written here and I can read it. You are the ones who in a port tell a film and in another port tell another film, depending on whether we have more presence there than one sector or another sector. That is not good for the fishing sector, here is the important thing to work on the line of defending the interests of the two sectors, which, as you have said, are the two very necessary for Galicia, both the sector of understanding and the mexillon sector. I'm convinced we'll be able to reach agreement. What we have today, according to the data that has made it easier for us to use the own battery sector in those areas that are of the greatest impact to them, is that we have cut 16% of the entire coast, from Ortegal to the peak of the Picos — 16% sealed for the sole and exclusive extraction of the perception. In these areas neither fellows nor drummers can pick up mussels, because it's hard to match the way they work to get a good mussel fixation for the next year with the way they work to get a good fixation of perception for the next year. Because to have a good mussel fixation we need to clean the rock completely because the first organism that is fixed on that rock is the mussel; but to have a good one realizes the following year what we need is to leave pieces of perception on the rocks so they can be fixed to them the next generation of individuals in the next campaign. So if we want to have a good area of exploitation of understanding, we need to make a responsible exploitation in those areas that do not allow the rocks to be cleaned completely so that it is not colonized uniquely and exclusively by the cheekbone and we lose the population of perception.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u315	It's not an easy case, it's not a simple case — I know — but I can assure you that we've been working since the minute one where I arrived at this council to defend the interests of both sectors. Don't come and put me here as a referee of one or another's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u317	...I'm the person who has to mediate between the two and so I'm doing it. And I'm not going to let them tell me I'm on either side or on the other side, or I'm defending the interests of some...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u318	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u319	...that the interests of others. Sorry, president. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u320	Thank you. We continue with questions to the Government. Question from Da Paloma Castro Rey and D. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to protect citizenship from the increase in cybercrime
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u321	In this case we begin with the question of Mrs Paloma Castro Rey of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u322	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The senior prosecutor in Galicia noted in his recent speech in the Greek Parliament the increase in computer crime in Galicia to reach very worrying data, with an increase of 135 per cent of the judicial proceedings opened by 2020. This implies the opening of 1,085 proceedings for computer offences, of which 953 — i.e. 99.1% — correspond to electronic scams. The Prosecutor also highlights in this report the impact of new technologies on the crime scene; on the one hand, as a means to execute classic crime of scams, threats or insults, and on the other, by providing new criminal figures, such as the attack on these computer systems or the interception of data in transmission. The coronovirus pandemic and social restrictions or mobility have contributed to the increase of this new criminal trend, but we must not forget that digitization has come to stay and that irremediably traditional crime is changing by computer science. Four are the well-known cyber delinquents. The most common are computer scams, which consist of carrying out a misleading activity by causing an asset displacement in the victim's prejudice to obtain an asset profit; computer offences of damage, which is the case with common computer viruses, such as WannaCry, which are computer offences that consist of deleting, damaging or making inaccessible computer data without authorization; frauds of telecommunications, which in common language is to take advantage of the neighbour's wifi but whenever the benefit is greater than 400 euros; or cyberdelitos against privacy or cyberaccous in different ways, which is access to personal information from another person without authorization or use technology to threaten, embarrass, intimidate or harass a third party. I emerge, therefore, these new criminal forms that the citizenry finds defenseless in as it lacks information and tools to protect itself. And it also finds itself in a clear disadvantage against these mobs that operate internationally and with more and more accurate misleading conduct. The Greek Government has an obligation to articulate measures that contribute to the prevention of these risks and the protection of citizenship. And one way is to improve the knowledge of citizenship about these new criminal modalities and to raise awareness of the risks of certain actions in the digital field. That is why we in the Socialist Group believe that it is necessary to take measures that contribute to this prevention and protection. And don't tell me, Counsellor, that this is not possible or it isn't up to them, because to do politics as they do when they alert the population about the risk of "employment" they don't hesitate to report to the university—one of them, by the way, to a former MP of the People's Party—or to offer a specialized and free counselling service to people or entities suffering from this situation. The crime of usurpation was dealt with in 17 proceedings in 2020, compared with 1,085 cases initiated by computer offences. What's this evidence? Which is a matter of will. That's why I'm asking you if they're planning on carrying out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u324	...some kind of measure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u325	Thank you. Mr. Miguel Corgos López-Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you are asking me for the measures being taken at the Galician Council against the increase in computer offences, and justifying your question by stating that the Union has an obligation to protect all Welsh people. Well, on this issue, I'd like to point out three things. The first is that — as it cannot be otherwise — we share their concern from the German Government about the increase in any crime, especially such crimes that affect the weakest sectors of society, especially the greatest. I would like to add that the increase in computer offences is a global problem to which a community like Galicia, which is experiencing an acceleration of the digital transformation superior to that of the rest of its environment, is not immune. So from the German Government we believe that the fight against the global phenomenon of crime requires a global and coordinated response. In this sense, we agree with Galician Attorney General that computer crime associated with new technologies is currently the most serious threat to the right to privacy of people, in addition to being an instrument for sophisticated delicious actions. The second thing I wanted to point out has to do with the competences in this matter to which you referred. I see you know them well and maybe you don't fit your question, but, well... as your lordship certainly knows, the competences for crime prevention and the protection of citizenship and businesses are not from the Council of Galicia but from the General Administration of the State. Moreover, it is the central government that has not only the competences in these matters but also the economic resources and the means to carry them out. I'll remind you of the legal framework, Your Honor. Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March regulates the operation of security forces and bodies in Spain and states that public security is the sole responsibility of the State and its maintenance corresponds to the Government of the nation. It also collects that the maintenance of public security will be exercised by the various public administrations through the forces and bodies of security. In particular, Article 11 points out that "the State's security forces and bodies have as their primary mission the protection of the free exercise of rights and freedoms and the guarantee of citizenship through the performance of the following functions...". And, among them, paragraph (f) indicates that criminal acts should be prevented. In the same law, but at a second point, it makes it clear who has to exercise these powers in different territories: the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard. Thirdly, I would like to stress that both the National Police and the Civil Guard have specialized groups for these purposes, to prevent and fight cybercrime. In particular, the police have the Central Technology Research Brigade, which is a unit designed to respond to the challenges of formulating new forms of crime, such as cyber attacks. For its part, the Civil Guard has a group of telematic crimes created to investigate, within the UCO — the Central Operational Unit — all those crimes committed over the Internet. For the most part, in Spain the answer to these types of crimes, as well as their internal and external coordination, is the National Intelligence Centre...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u327	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u328	...through the National Cryptological Center and the cybersecurity institute Incibe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u329	Sorry... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, a little quiet, they still don't know what I'm going to tell them! It's the first time you've been on the question shift and maybe you don't know that in the question shift time is radical. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, like the others!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u330	Calm down! I'm done. Don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u331	It's okay, man! Please, it's the first time! Take it easy, man! Please! Now you know. But everyone has to be told the first time. It's the only thing I've been passing on to you. A little... man, I don't know! Anyway, nothing happened either. Mrs. Castro's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u332	Thank you, President. It's the first time and, besides, you have to answer about an area that doesn't fit your advice, which is also a handicap eating that brown one. [[Applause]] So, I do not ask you, Counsellor, to fight cybercrime or to stop or pursue offenders, but what we propose is to articulate outreach campaigns, in collaboration with media sectors, which aim to inform, promote or disseminate, or an advisory service for people or entities suffering from this situation. Other autonomous communities are doing this, such as A Rioxa — through information and prevention advertising campaigns —; Aragon — through tripticals, posters and audiovisual documents that collect advice and explain concepts to prevent cybercrime; or Andalusia and Catalonia, among others. You, from the Government, always apply the policy of throwing balloons out, always and continuously cross-sectionally. The fault, competition, is always other administrations or third parties. If primary care is collapsed, because it is the fault of the State, which does not annul the rate of rest, or of the professionals who emigrate to other autonomous communities — you do not reach the level of defamation to the professionals of Ayuso, but almost—; if the laughter has high levels of pollution, because the blame is for the municipalities, who do not invest in sanitation; if there is a lack of industrial development, it is the State; if there are closures of the rural financial services, the financial institutions; if there is a demographic crisis, the Greek citizenship, which has no children. And so I could go on if I had more time. They do not hesitate to apply the policy of fear to create a sense of insecurity — which is false — when they talk about the crimes of occupation. But in the face of this increase in cybercrime, which is real, they don't understand necessary or priority, or they understand that it's not their competence, to take any kind of measure. And that's why we ask them from here to be responsible and to protect the citizenship that is defenseless from these new criminal behaviors that attack their privacy and also their heritage. So they take measures and promote the culture of cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. Close the question by the Conseilante de affaira e Administración Pública.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u334	Thank you, President. Well, I think it became clear in my first speech — as you have just pointed out — that exclusive competition, economics, means and tools, and specialized units work in the hands of the General Government of the State and that therefore is not autonomous competition. But in spite of what he said, to remember that the prevention and prosecution of these crimes corresponds to the State's security forces and bodies, he also wanted to make a concrete reference to what the self-government is doing in this matter. In the case of the German Government, what is our responsibility in this issue is to collaborate with the General Administration of the State, as we are doing, with a position of loyal institutional cooperation to strengthen the mechanisms of defence against cybercrime in the issue of our autonomous community, as we do in the remaining areas in which we have competence. We have commissioned the cybersecurity of the autonomous institutions and we exercise it through Amtega — as you know — the Galaga Agency for Technological Modernization. Already in the period 2015-2021 we have implemented the ICT Security Director Plan, which has been strengthened in recent years with extraordinary measures focused on addressing the increase in cyber threats and cybercrime. This bet for collaboration is reflected in the Greek node of cybersecurity, Cibergal, promoted by the Unity of Galicia, and of which the National Cryptological Center, the Incibe, the provincial deputies and the same Fegamp are part. Since its foundation, about thirty entities have joined, and it has become a public-private pioneering collaboration structure in Spain, where all the agents involved in the matter are grouped together. This year we also approved the new German digital skills framework for citizenship, administration and companies. Digital training in this framework includes basic and advanced knowledge for safe and responsible use of the digital environment. And we are convinced that this will be a very important tool to address the challenges in this matter agilely. Similarly, it is agreed that a building should be built to accommodate the Galician Cybersecurity Centre, which will serve the General Administration, the autonomic public sector, universities and local corporations in Galicia. And I would also like to announce that we are working on the development of the new Welsh cybersecurity strategy for the period 2022-2027, which will incorporate specific measures for the protection of digital services provided by the Galician Union. Finally, I should like to end — not to pass from time to time — by reiterateing that protection against this type of crime lies with the General Administration of the State, which is the one who has to guarantee the protection of citizenship, and also reaffirming the commitment of the Galician Council to maintain our institutional cooperation to strengthen the mechanisms of defence against cybercrime within the framework of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u335	All right. Perfect. Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Diego Calvo Pouso and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the measures taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the execution of the European Rural Development Fund to ensure works related to water management corresponding to the 2014-2020 operating period
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u336	Question by Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u337	Good afternoon, President. Counsellor, Junta has for years assumed municipal competences in everything related to water management—supply, sanitation, purification.... With the Law of Improvement of the Comprehensive Water Cycle, Junta will continue to assume these competences, which are municipal, with the aim of continuing to support the municipalities in the serious problems they have in sanitation and purification, a help to avoid uncontrolled greenery to sanitation networks or directly to the sea or rivers. Water management is very complex. The work to be done in this field is very expensive. The operation of half the Galician debuggers that are managed by the municipalities — which we have already studied — is inadequate. And in supply networks there are losses that are around 30%. It is inefficient to manage a debugger if the network is not properly managed. If debugging is not handled properly, dumps will appear. And that mismanagement of the entire water cycle is detrimental to the environment, public health and economic activity — whether fishing, seafood, aquaculture or tourism. With this new law you will bring to this Parliament it will try to continue to support the councils to solve these problems, but the powers on many occasions are from the Central Government — in particular from the Directorate-General for Coastal Affairs. And often, Counselor, we see that there are delays in processing, or I don't know whether there is a lack of interest in supporting certain projects, which endangers those works. It is true that the European funds — fundamentally Feder funds — are used and that it is the Council of Galicia that assumes the construction of the debugger on many occasions, from beginning to end — the municipality has to do administrative procedures. But the state administration has to authorize the action. In the case of these European funds, both the Feder and the EAFRD, they have to meet a number of conditions, and justify investment in time. For this planning period, from 2014 to 2020, works must be completed by 2023. And we know that the central administration is failing to meet its deadlines. We know that there is a real risk of losing very important European funds for these works. The municipalities, in most cases, try to do what they can, on account of what brings them. Because it's works that they would have to do and it's the Junta who does them. But who needs it again is the diligence of the central government departments to give the permission. The truth is that we have many examples and I would like to know, Counsellor, what is going on and if these pending projects are really in danger; and also what can the Board do to ensure the execution of Feder funds that it has assigned to works related to water management actions corresponding to this 2014 to 2020 operating period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u338	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u339	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, we always say that the execution of hydraulic infrastructures is very complex, technically complex, with massive investments and also administratively complex. The fact is that the execution of these infrastructures requires the acceptance of many administrations, from an administrative point of view, to develop it. It has been said here on many occasions, as you have said, that the competition for sanitation, purification and water supply — hence water management — is municipal competition. Even so, the Galician Union is making a really important effort to help the municipalities in this matter and in these responsibilities. And when we build a debugger, as I said, we're helping in the whole process, from the first previous study, from the construction project, to the execution of funds, to the execution of the work, to the budget provision. And the council, well, you have to approve in full the project, make the land available and assume exploitation and maintenance. But when we're talking about the sanitation of the Welsh rivers, in particular what we need is to act in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial and, therefore, to obtain this authorization from the Directorate-General for Coastal Affairs of the central services of Madrid. It is a complex process, which is added that we run it with European funds for the period 2014-2020; therefore, specific data and specific deadline, which have to be financed entirely in the year 2023, and therefore we are working hard to meet these deadlines, because for us, for the Union of Galicia, it is of paramount importance that is the sanitation of the Galician rivers, because we know this: there are activities that are based on that quality of the waters; fishing, seafood, aquaculture, even tourism depends on our rivers and therefore it is necessary to control these contaminating vegetables. In short, it's as complex as it's important to clean up the rivers of Galicia. We know and act and are deeply committed to that law, that Law of improvement in the management of the integral cycle of water. Our goal is to deepen the good work that we are doing, helping the municipalities, responsible, conscientious work, to improve the quality of the water. It's a law that we bravely face, as much as others want to avoid and avoid this problem and this solution. But the truth is, the deadlines are there, the European funds are there, and what we need is that all administrations act with diligence. And also by the Directorate General of Coasts of the central services of Madrid, which does not last, because they are years and years: thirty-six months to obtain authorization from Costas for the sanitation of Foz, three years for the emissary of Pontevedra. And what we need, above all, is also common sense. The territorial reality of Galicia must be understood, the nature of the hydraulic infrastructures must be understood, and that is why we also call for common sense, in addition to agility, to the Directorate General of Coasts of the central services of Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u340	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u341	Thank you very much, Counselor. The truth is, with periods of up to thirty-six months it's impossible not only to plan a work, it's impossible to plan any kind of action on the part of a government, it's very easy to lose sight of the beginning of the works and even lose the funds, right? which is what you can start to worry about. And many times later we have to listen to opposition groups in this parliament asking for explanations, when what they should do is to address their Government, Madrid, to try not to change the criteria in central services, which has often happened to us. Because the Coast demarcation is more collaborative and, of course, it's much more agile, but on many occasions we see that these permits, when they have to go through central services, are paralyzed. And, of course, it's irresponsible that an administration, whoever it is -- in this case the central government -- is thirty-six months late in sending a report, whether positive or negative. If it is negative, for what you have to do is to send it as soon as possible to give time to change it, to change all those aspects which are considered untimely and to be able to take the work forward, in the interests of all. What makes no sense is that it takes thirty-six months and then it can still be used politically. So, Counsellor, I beg you, if you have any other case of these, let us know, and we, as far as possible, as a political group here and also in the Congress of Deputies, will try to get the central services, especially the Coast Demarcation, to change this way of acting. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u342	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u343	Thank you, President. For the truth is that what we ask is very simple; we ask for no money, we ask for common sense. For the cleansing of the rivers of Greece — I have explained the matter — obviously to clean up and remove vegetables, we have to do the infrastructures where people are, because that is where the vegetables are, not elsewhere, and therefore we need these authorizations from the ministry, specifically from the Directorate-General for Coastal Services in Madrid. We ask for diligence, axillity and common sense. Because the fact is that when the Directorate-General of Coasts, as always, advocates in silence, the water technicians of Galicia do it is to arrive at agreements with the heads of the provinces of Costas in Galicia—about those we have nothing to say but thank their work—and, when the records arrive in Madrid, invalidate all the agreements agreed in Galicia between water technicians and provincial heads of Coasts. The Directorate-General of Coasts in the central services of Madrid invalidates all the work done for many years, and what we ask for is rational solutions and administrative agility, because, of course, it is not clear that Galicia's territorial reality is not understood and the nature of the hydraulic infrastructures is not understood. I insist: the collection network must be installed where there are greens, and the greens are where people are, and in Galicia people sit in the German rivers and we're there. It's our territorial reality. They don't seem to understand it in Madrid. We call for a simplified, simple, common-sense procedure, since it is urgent to resolve. I've been transferring this matter to the Secretary of State on a number of occasions. There is a problem and, therefore, the first thing to do in dealing with a problem is to recognize this problem, and what is being done by the Directorate-General for Coastal Coastal Services in Madrid is to delay, postpone and, of course, prevent the execution of many rhino sanitation works, which prevent not only healing the rhinos but also execute those European funds that we have managed among all of us for their financing. I stress: the quality of water has an economic, environmental and social impact in Galicia, which is extremely important. It is the responsibility of the local administration. We're helping local administrations, but there's a lack of proportionality. I'm going to set an example: for Celero's sanitation, in Viveiro, it's that it was seven years, seven years to get that concession; when we were about to get the concession, report that it wasn't proceeding, rosary of reports; seven years for the sanitation of Viveiro. More bloody: Vilanova and Cabanas, twenty-two months to get us the other day a communiqué that invalidated all the agreements reached with the provincial heads of Costas; twenty-two months to wait for them to tell us: no, the works cannot be done. And so, of course, in Vilanova we're asked to change a collector where there's already an existing collector with concession and where people and greens are, of course it doesn't work. We call for agility and, above all, common sense to the Directorate-General for Coastal Affairs of the central services of Madrid. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u344	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the accusations made by the Government of Galicia to the former Deputy Director of Relations with the Agader Rural Development Groups and Director of the Bank of Lands
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u345	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u346	Thank you. Good afternoon, President. Counsellor, according to news reports, Justice investigates a alleged case of corruption in Agader by an ex-director of this organism. According to this information, it was the Union itself that denounced possible irregularities in the processing of two grants to the Council of the Brollon Poor, although it also paralyzed a third for the same reason. The three aids add up to almost EUR 290,000 of public funds. The Justice of the Union considers alleged crimes of administrative prevarication and falsity of official documentation by Javier Blanco Carballal, ex-Director of Relations with Agader's GDR. Blanco was also director of the Land Bank, later spokesperson of the People's Party in Lalín, almost as advisor to Mayor Crespo, and now he has a private consultant on his property. The case will be investigated by Santiago's 2nd Instruction Judge, who initiated prior inquiries to determine whether there is a reason to open a proceeding. This case was born in October 2017. Agader and the Brollon Poor Town Hall signed an agreement for the latter to receive a maximum grant of EUR 35.274. The council justified proceedings in January 2018. That amount was for the archaeological project of the San Lourenzo castle, but the funds did not reach the municipality, which decided to present a litigation-administrative remedy in a Santiago court to claim them, because without them such a small municipality could only act. In denouncing the case, Agader stopped the file, and the same happened with another help, in this case an agreement for the improvement of municipal roads for access to agricultural holdings. The agreement was signed in July 2016 for an aid of almost €55,000, and it was then raised to almost 71,000. Agager only paid the first part of the council and nearly 16,000 euros are pending. The other case is in question. This is the agreement between the Poor Brollon, Agader and the Galician Tourism Agency, to build a hostel on the Winter Road. The count was EUR 132,137, divided into two payments. The municipality justified the first year, in October 2020 it requested an advance of €146,000 to continue with the works after acquiring a house for that function. But Agader stopped the project while also detecting irregularities. The Greek citizenship deserves transparency and information, Counsellor, so we ask you what the performances you do to the former GDR Director of the Agader GDR and Director of the Land Bank are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u348	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I will try to answer this question raised by the Socialist Parliamentary Group as clearly as possible, given that the issue we are going to deal with here today is in the process of judicial training, so we must have maximum care in order not to interfere in any judicial procedure. That's why I want to move from the very beginning of my intervention that we are fully at the disposal of Justice — it could not be otherwise — in order to clarify what has happened in the processing of these files. Look, among the changes that were made on the management team of the Rural Council last September, a new director of the Galician Rural Development Agency was appointed. Even so, and about a month later, the Deputy Director of Relations with Rural Development Groups was replaced. In addition to this relief, changes have also taken place within the agency itself, which have enabled them to enhance their management, because of the importance they have in the strategy of their own counseling. In a gradual manner and within the framework of Agader's ordinary administrative processing, several incidences have been detected linked to a series of files — you mentioned it. Therefore, and since the same clarity and transparency with which the Galician Union always acts, the first step in detecting these irregularities was to open up a procedure of prior action, of a reserved nature, in order to clarify the administrative management in the processing of these files. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure was initiated by the Rural Media Council itself, and the detailed analysis of the proceedings concluded that there seemed to be irregularities in the handling of certain files, so, in view of the possible criminal scope of the facts examined, the information collected was transferred to the General Legal Counsel of the Board of Galicia, so as to proceed, where appropriate, to the timely communication to the Prosecutor's Office for the exercise of the judicial proceedings they considered to be coming from or to what is appropriate in accordance with the law. Following the analysis of the file's information, the General Legal Counsel of the Board put the proceedings in the knowledge of the Office of the Office of the Office of Santiago de Compostela. This area prosecutor's office has agreed to file the corresponding complaint before the Dean of Santiago, which led to the initiation of pre-delict proceedings in the Instruction Court number 2 of this same city. In the light of these proceedings and in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, it was agreed to suspend the execution of the acts included in the proceeding. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in practice, we must wait for the resolution of the procedure in order not to interfere in any judicial proceedings, obviously maintaining an absolute respect for the decisions of the judicial bodies. And as it shows the fact that it is the Board itself that puts the matter in the knowledge of the Prosecutor's office, we reiterate that we are fully at the disposal of Justice to clarify this matter and we keep ourselves waiting for what is right in the trial. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u349	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u350	Counsellor, in view of the information known and the lack of transparency of your counsellor's office, citizenship needs certainty. She needs to know whether the Galician Rural Development Agency works against the serious situation of abandonment that has our rural and the dramatic situation of aging and depopulation that suffers or is a mere chiringuito of sharing funds with party criteria for her friends. There are few dates, and with information from the CISF union, our parliamentary group, namely Martín Seco, my companion, denounced how the German Government was preparing the same deputy director of Agader for him to be the deputy in this chamber and leader of the People's Party at the Barco de Valdeorras Mois Blanco, and how they also posted the former mayor of the People's Party in Fisterra. The way to make politics of the Rural Council is in question, because we have the feeling that, at such an important moment to facilitate the mobility of land and to see the fate of the new RDP funds, from the Government are more anxious to continue with its opacity and lack of objective criteria to share funds from the entire Greek citizenship. Should you inform us, Counsellor, whether the Board was starting an administrative file for this serious case and what is its content and whether there are more cases such as the complaint in the Poor Brollon and more municipalities or companies that are economically drowning because of these irregularities? What is the solution that will be given to the Brollon Poor Town Hall? The former former deputy director denounced by you continues to work for the Galician Board directly or indirectly with your new consultant, who offers services by developing plans for European directors and aid? Is that consultant working for his department or Ángeles Vázquez, who was responsible for the Rural Media in 2017? Do you have to see this case in Mr. Dubois' removal in front of the Agader? Too many open fronts that you must clarify to our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u352	President, ladies and gentlemen. As I said in my previous speech, my objective here is to answer this question as clearly as possible, given that the subject discussed here today is in the course of judicial investigation, so we must act with maximum care in order not to interfere in any proceedings. I insist at all times that we are at the full disposal of Justice, in order to clarify what has happened in the processing of these files. As I told you in my previous reply, when certain irregularities were detected in those files of the Galician Rural Development Agency, the first step was to open a procedure for prior actions of a reserved nature, in order to clarify the administrative management of those files, acting with maximum rigour and complying with the applicable regulations. It was carried out with the greatest diligence, always trying to find as much information as possible to determine the specific circumstances in which each of the files was processed. I mean, this internal procedure was initiated by the Council of the Rural Environment itself, by the Council of Galicia itself. And from the detailed analysis of the proceedings it was concluded that there appeared to be alleged irregularities in the processing of certain files, so, in view of the possible criminal scope of the facts examined, the information collected was transferred to the General Legal Counsel of the Galician Council, so as to be the case, or to the timely communication to the Prosecutor's Office and to the exercise of the judicial proceedings which it considered to be coming or corresponding to according to the law. The fact is that the General Legal Counsel informed the Santiago de Compostela Office of the administrative proceedings dealt with in relation to the files analysed. And this Area Prosecutor's Office agreed to file the corresponding complaint before the Judge of Santiago de Compostela, and from there it resulted in the initiation of prior inquiries in the Instruction Court number 2 of this same city. Having regard to the said acts and in accordance with the Law of Administrative Procedure, it was agreed by the council to suspend the execution of the acts included in the proceedings prior to the proceedings, and subsequently were included in the communication sent to the Office of the Prosecutor's Office, until it is stated, as cannot be otherwise, as the law, of the corresponding ruling of the court. Therefore, being at this moment, ladies and gentlemen, to practice the prior diligence in the corresponding judicial body, we must wait for the resolution of the procedure, in order not to interfere in any judicial proceedings, obviously maintaining an absolute regard to the decisions of the judicial bodies. And as it shows by the fact that it is Galicia's own board that makes the Prosecutor's office aware of the event, I reiterate our total provision for Justice to clarify this matter. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u353	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the implications for the maritime-fishing sector for the approval of the prohibition of granting subsidies to the fuels of the fishing fleet
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u354	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u355	Thank you, President. Welcome, Mrs. Quintana. The warning fleet to burn fuels endangers the competitiveness of fishing and food sovereignty. The sector calls on the European Union to take account of the reduction in activity in recent years in its emission reduction objectives. This is information from the Fisheries Industry magazine. It's a magazine that the truth is a reliable source. The magazine Industrias Pesqueras was founded in 1927 by José Barreras Massó, after which he was opposite Valentín Paz Andrade, until recently also Alfonso Paz-Andrade, a magazine that always defended the interests of fishing and, in addition, rigorously. [[Murmurs.]] In this information, in the body of the news, it is justified by a report of these conclusions, and the fact is that we know that the Galician Union has always been on that side, rejecting the elimination of the subsidised fuel, and today we want to sink something further into the subject. At the Council of Ministers for Fisheries of the European Union held on 26 May 2021 in Brussels, the Ministry of Fisheries has also made its rejection manifest, but now it seems to change its mind. We are in the debates recently in the measures that the Socialist Party in Galicia puts on the table, which are continually changing in the ministry and in which the ministry continually changes with reference to Europe. The World Trade Organization tried on July 15 to lay the foundations for an agreement to put an end to a fiscal measure which it considers to contribute to overfishing. And the WTO now adds to the European Commission, which advocates that shipowners pay the litre of fuel with taxes, position against the bonuses that the Government of Spain now has, too, the Counsellor, because the minister has delegated everything, because negotiation in Brussels and its position therefore goes on that line. We do not understand, Mrs Quintana, this change in the European Commission, and we regret once again — I really say — that the Central Government is preaching this position and is following up on such a negative position for the Greek fleet. I don't know if they don't listen to the Members of the Socialist Party of Galicia in the ministry or really have no will either from the Socialist Party of Galicia to help the fleet in this case. We're already checking that they say one thing, that they vote one thing, that they say another; we also check it in the debates. Today we were also talking about the importance of the regulation of control of the European Union and of the position and strength that the ministry has to do; we insist and we want it to make that force. And, therefore, today, by deepening on this issue of fuel propagation, we would like to ask you, Mrs Quintana, what consequences this ban on granting subsidies to the fishing fleet could have for the fishing industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u356	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u357	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, as you well know, we've been warning about the possible termination of subsidies or fuel subsidies, which can bring serious consequences to our fleet. This would already be the threshold of profitability under the costs, so that the economic breakdown would drag the fishing activity into losses. The best way to define the problem is to use the words of Gonzalo Rodríguez, the Fisheries Economics and Natural Resources Research Group of the USC, when he says: terminating the bonus diesel would be the worst blow to the fleet to be remembered. I mean, we have a serious problem at our doors. So we started working from Galicia many months ago on this issue and we made a triple report that analyses the situation from the economic point of view, also from the administrative point of view and, of course, from the environmental point of view. This analysis aims to counter both the World Trade Organization's proposals and the European Union itself and aims to show the impact that fiscal measures from the elimination of fuel subsidies may have on the Greek fisheries sector. Within the economic sphere, the report identifies three scenarios depending on the lower or higher tax pressure. In relation to the worst scenario, it points out that even in the fleet segment that would have the least impact, which would be that of lesser arts, the current benefit would become about 15,700 euros; that is, it would be below Galicia's average gross salary, which is about 22,200 euros. In the legal field, the report focuses on the importance of the level playing field and the coordination of such regulations, so that there is no overlap between the WTO and the European Union or other international organisations such as IMO. As for the environmental issue, the document collects a study from the Biogroup group at the University of Santiago de Compostela, which stresses that fish has the best relationship between the protein it brings according to its carbon footprint. These analyses, as you know, were transferred in recent days to the Director-General of DG MARE, representatives of the Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Unit, the Directorate-General for Competition and the Director-General for Trade of the European Commission, Mr Ignacio García Becerro. In addition, the representative of the European Union has also been referred to the World Trade Organization and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. With this in mind, we want to warn of the possible impact of the WTO proposals but also of the proposals being made by the European Union to increase the burden of professional fuel on fishing, which would, of course, endanger the profitability and future of the Greek fishing sector, and we are looking for these contributions to be taken into account by the different institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u358	Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u359	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your defense, for your information, for your work. The truth is, when we say we keep working, it's really because we've been working forever. You have already said that from a long time before, when there are rumors of different measures, when you know of the intentions in this case of Europe and of legislation, for it is clear that the Council of Galicia and you, above all, with your team, are working there. We are facing a serious problem; it is obvious. We know that you're working that way, we know that in other ways too; we've seen it in a recent day on the energy transition towards carbon neutrality in the sea sector. We also have a lot of work and we see that we have to move forward. The big difference is in the vision of that progress, because there are political groups, as I often say in the debates, which seem to forget that the proposals in this direction can end with the fleet. I always say that, besides, radical environmental policies are not the most favourable for fishing and that it is true that there is also a fishing that does not play on equal terms than Galicia, and we have to defend it, even the Spanish fleet as a whole, but in this case especially the Galician. There are those who want to accelerate more than the European Commission itself and the WTO itself, which seems to forget that the one who can be fully loaded is the sector which I say defends and which is artisanal coastal fishing. We have had a debate this morning about handicraft coastal fishing, we have spoken now and you have given figures and data on how this measure can affect you, and that is why it is important to know that you defend each and in what terms and, as I say, you vote each, in what terms, with the representatives you have in each institution and after what is done and what measures are taken. To finish now, ask you, Counsellor, how does this transit look and what will be the line to follow in this process within your competences and possibilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u360	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u361	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, it is clear that the transition will take place and it is also clear that we from Galicia want to fight climate change. So we've opened up all the lines of work needed to accompany the fishing sector in this step in the face of the use of new energies. What we ask both the WTO and the European Union is that the rules, which need to be done, which are being done in a planned way so that we can continue to develop a sustainable fishing activity, taking into account that only the supply of food-fishing protein that has little carbon footprint represents less than 2%, and that it cannot be the fishing sector that assumes the consequences of this fight against climate change without having previously studied all the decisions to be made. I mean, if we're going to have to change the engines for ships that have the lowest carbon footprint even from what they already have today, we have to have the studies done to find out what kind of ships we're going to have to design, and the European Union has to be willing to finance that change of ships and skip the principle it has today that I don't want bigger ships. If we're going to need new wineries for the new fuel to be used, we have to have all the studies done. Of course, on that line we're working from Galicia. We are looking for support from different non-governmental organizations, we are looking for support from technicians, we are looking for support from the rest of the European Union's fishing regions, because we all understand that, if it is true that we have a commitment to fight climate change, this struggle has to be gradually and without leading a sector as important as the fishing sector. So that's the line we'll keep working from today to the future, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-22-DSPG065.u362	Thank you, Counselor. Well, here are the full lengths of this part-session, a period of sessions that has been, you have to say, intense. We are still the most employed Parliament in Spain. I appreciate it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You keep working, I'll assume I'll take care of it. They do not doubt that, for now, no one has challenged me, and we have even had time to celebrate the 40 years of the Statute with various acts and start what is the celebration of the 40 years of Parliament. [[Laughter]] So I thank you for all that work, I wish you all to have some good parties, to enjoy them. And I ask them a favor: take care. You, who are also citizens' representatives, please step up with them who also take care of each other. This is something I especially ask of you. I believe that we have given this in Parliament a good picture and I thank you for your disclosure and please ask people to take care of themselves, and please also take care of all of you. Have good parties. Nothing else, thank you very much.
