ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u1	Good morning. Let's start the sixth point session, questions for oral answer by the President of the Union. Question for oral response by President of the Galician Union of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the forecasts of the President of the Union regarding an update of Galician autonomy status as soon as the worst phases of the pandemic pass.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u2	Whenever you like, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Union, Autonomy is not the confirmation of the past, it is the opening of a new road to the future, a new path that we opened forty years ago in Galicia, as you well know. Forty years have given rise to the longest period of democracy and self-government in our Community. Forty years of Spain, which was affixed by a decentralization model, by a federal de facto model, by a model of participation of the territories, identities, sensibilities, nationalities, an autonomous state model that has worked but which also needs to adapt to the times we have to live on. During this year we are celebrating the 40 years of the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, a statute that has allowed dignity, which has allowed the development of culture, language, the economic and social development of our country, and to do so, in addition, in a plural Spain where there is room for communities to participate on an equal footing, contribute, equip their citizenship with the best regional public goods and promote everything that involves dignity, identity, culture, well-being for our people. Forty years later, the Autonomy Statute was a collective success, one of the pages written to favor our country of the best politics made in Galicia. And forty years after the Statute made in the 20th century, Galicia also needs the opportunity to adapt the Statute to the needs of the 21st century. That was also his commitment to the electoral program when he first acceded to the Government of the Union, and that is also a commitment from the Socialist Party of Galicia, which has continued to hold in various calls, with different directions, and which will also be a sign of identity. As we spend the worst moments in the pandemic, it's time to open an adaptation page of the Autonomy Statute to the needs of the 21st century. A statute that has to incorporate new rights, new freedoms, new powers, a statute that needs to be updated to incorporate so many Greeks and Greeks under the age of 50 who were neither in the exercise of vote nor with maturity in order to be able to participate in the Statute and in the 1981 referendum. That is why, Mr President, we would like to ask you to open a page in the history of Galicia's Autonomy by opening up the update and reform of the Autonomy Statute as well as the worst pages of this pandemic in this legislature; to do so to incorporate a letter of basic services, of public services that give equal rights throughout our country; to do so to incorporate new rights and adapt the Autonomy Administration to new times in the field of equality, feminism, in the field of fighting against violence against macho violence, in the field of new rights linked to the environment, in sustainability, in new aspects such as the new technologies of the society of communication, in aspects also relating to updating institutional architecture in the field of competences, in own bodies in Galicia that can be improved; and so many issues to be raised. It's necessary to open that dialogue page, that opening page, that bravery page. And we ask this Galician Parliament to take the courage to face the challenges of the 21st century, too, in our charter. In order for the Statute to shield new rights and services for the whole of Galician citizenship and to do so also with a new social contract between all parliamentary political forces, with civil society, with representatives of the different areas of our Galicia and also in contact with citizenship, with the people of the country who also want to enter into a new social contract on which to base an update of the Statute which is beneficial to the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u5	We want to update these issues because we know that the struggle for the Statute was the struggle for the self-government of Galicia, which united the Greeks in 1936, the Greeks in 1981, the Greeks who wagered for self-government in 2007 too, and which now also needs in 2021 a wager for the Greeks and the Greeks, who want solutions with a useful self-government administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u7	You have the tender hand of the Galician socialists to open that page and to work for the best for the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u8	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, I do not hide it from you that it has caused me a certain surprise to see the formulation of your question in relation to the moment the Socialist Party chooses to propose a reform or a new Statute of autonomy. I am certainly calmer after their explanation and their expansion and contextualization than they ask for. Because indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if we tell people today, even during the health effects of the unresolved pandemic and with an industrial crisis of more than 16,000 jobs at risk and with enormous uncertainty in relation to all raw materials, all supplies, the charities of life, the difficulties that are going on in all families and most workers in Galicia, you will understand that being talking about this in Parliament is nothing more than a theoretical exercise of futures. But, Mr. Caballero, since you have contextualized it -- in my opinion -- in a manner appropriate to the question, probably the most important thing is to know what the Socialist Party's position is now and what the Socialist Party wants to change. A recent survey came out in the newspaper La Voz de Galicia which somehow did an audit of the problems that the Greeks had, considering them as priority issues. And he said that the priority problem was unemployment, working conditions, wages, lack of industries, ageing of the population; none of them referred to a new Statute or a reform of the Statute. Therefore, if we are speaking in this context and in this session of this reform of the Statute which is not and which is not part of the problems of the Greeks, from now on to next problems, they will probably think of the Greeks who are not responding to their daily, immediate and urgent problems. I agree with you, Your Honor, that these forty years are forty years of success. So we have an institutional architecture that has facilitated success, which, as you pointed out, has been these forty years of self-government, responsibility, Constitution and Statute. I believe that in order to address the reform of any statute, particularly here in Galicia, we need to work with two assumptions. The first, that the Galician Nationalist Block abandons independence and sovereignty. And the second, knowing exactly what the Socialist Spanish Workers' Party is today in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Is it still a national party? Are you clearly in favour of the Constitution? Are you clearly in favour of constitutionalist parties and, therefore, in no way are you proposing agreements with independentist and sovereign parties? I think it's the logical thing to think about right now. Look, indeed, Your Honor, we are in the greatest era of democratic prosperity in our history, in the only era of self-government that we have had in our history and in the best quality of life despite the uncertainties of our history. Probably, Your Honor, it would be good to know what the proposals of the House parties are and, above all, whether the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia will continue to work for the Constitution, for constitutional self-government, for Galeguism and will reject any sovereign or independenceist approach. I think that's a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u11	Among the challenges we face, which we have to address immediately, I believe that one of them is the financing of the autonomous communities, namely the financing of Galicia. On this we have points of agreement, not with the Socialist Party in Galicia, but with the Socialist Party in five autonomous communities other than Galicia. It would be good if the first question was that the Socialist Party in Galicia had achieved and agreed with the majority group on the model of self-financing according to the socialist parties of other autonomous communities. We need to implement effective management of European funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u13	...and it would be good, Your Honor, that you once prioritized those funds and we could come to an agreement. We must overcome the industrial crisis, and we must see the capacity for self-governance of the various ways in which we make up the country's Parliament. And of course we must face the demographic challenge. That's why, Your Honor, you'll understand that in the next few months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u15	...let's start talking about questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u17	...that does not affect the problems of citizens, we are probably deslecting our representation. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. When we think about the update of the Statute, we're thinking about the Greeks and the Greeks. Because the Statute of Self-Government is an instrument to make Galicia, it was an instrument to make a better Galicia over these forty years and it must also be an instrument to make a better Galicia in the next forty years. And that is why we want to shield citizens' rights to public services, regardless of where they live, in the field of public health, in the field of education, in the field of social policy, in matters of dependence. These are just the problems that the Greeks show in all surveys, the same problems of finding a job, and that's why it's also necessary to update the Statute to have a more useful tool so that the Government of the Union can respond to the problems of Greek citizenship. And that's why when we talk about the Statute we're talking about defending women's rights against macho violence, the rights of Galicians and Greeks to digital communication, new technologies that reach the whole territory. We're talking about the rights to the environment, to a green Galicia which must also be reflected in the Statute of Self-Government. We are talking about the importance of defending the issues of the demographic challenge of rural Galicia, also in the Statute of Self-Government. The reform of the Statute of Self-Government that we are considering is the defense of the rights of the Galicians and the Greeks, is the blindfold of a Galician vanguard for the 21st century. We're talking about rights and people's interests. We have proposed useful modifications for the Greeks and for the Greeks. And it's time to approach him, it's time for the president of the Galician Council to defend those rights so he won't be able to close a wall like the one in Verín. We shield the right to health throughout the territory to ensure that, and this is the moment, Mr. Feijóo. It's time because, as we pass the pandemic, as long as vaccination is permitting it, you can open a parliamentary headquarters commission with a desire to build. Because also in 1981 the reticences, the refusal to open the statutory text were many and it was possible to look for what brought us together more than what separated us. And it's time to do it by learning also the importance of the pandemic. It's time to do it because Greek nationalism can show that it is the BNG of itself and that it abandons other theses, as its national spokesperson has said. Because the People's Party must also abandon uniformism, the People's Party must separate from Abascal, it must separate from Ayuso and bet on the Statute, and also because the PSdEG is going to show... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u20	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u21	...his Galeguist commitment to advance on that line. I understand that in parliamentary headquarters you may not like what I say, but also when it was necessary to do the Autonomy Statute you had to break up many inertias, break up many locks, go out ahead and put the citizenship of Galicia and the interests of Galicia in common, and we will have to leave all matters that separate us, when we would, for example, like the Statute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u22	Finish, please,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u23	...the services of euthanasia law are also blocked. For I know that in the People's Party there may be some reluctance, but let's look for what unites us to defend the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks of the 21st century. It's something that will improve the well-being of our people, the well-being of our citizens. And the tending hand of the PSdEG to do it, while it's the hand held to seek the best model of self-financing and to seek the best for Galicia, will continue to be a commitment, throughout this legislation, of the Greek socialism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u25	...and this parliamentary group. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u26	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u27	I do not hide you, Mr. Knight, that you reveal good intentions and interest in succeeding. The problem is, there are certain axioms that are simply false. Reforming a statute does not necessarily mean improving the quality of life of citizens. Look at what happened to the reform of the Catalonian Statute. Is Catalunya better now than before? Is Catalan society more united now than before? Is there more division, more confrontation, more sectarianism, more independence, more selfishness in the Catalan political class now or before? No, Your Honor. However, look at what we've done to the Basques and the Greeks. We kept the Statute. By the way, you, ruling in Euskadi, there you keep the Statute, you don't need to renew it, you don't need to change it, and here, as they don't, it turns out you need to modify it or renew it from time to time. Look, Your Honor, I don't know if you're the right interpreter and the true BNG interpreter. Now to say that BNG is the BNG of itself I suppose it means that it used to be the BNG of the non. But is it the BNG of itself to independence and sovereignty? Right. Is it the BNG of the non to the Constitution and the current Statute of autonomy of Galicia? It's true, too. So, Your Honor, I asked you what your proposal is. Tell me what the Socialist Party's proposal is, where they move. I have no answer to that proposal. If I told you we're facing very important challenges. Alcoa is about to close, Ence is about to be displaced by a partisan, ideological, and sectarian decision. [[Murmurs.]] That's what people are concerned about, 5,5% of the IPC that's recording all salaries, especially low wages, in the country. And so this parliamentary group, majority, and the government is focused on dealing with people's problems. And, no doubt, I very much doubt that at this moment we should question the institutional framework of the statute to solve people's problems. To say the problem with making a new status is technology, no; technology is working and is being built with a Galician Technology Agency that has been operating since 2009, Amtega; it didn't exist. The problems of equality, Your Honor, are resolved by laws, plans, attitudes and covenants. For environmental problems, Your Honor, I don't think it is necessary to amend the Statute. I don't think this status is against the Green Galician, the blue Galician we have. But I repeat again: what is the proposal of the Socialist Party of Galicia? What do you want to be like a match? Where do you want to go? What are your partners? Are we the partners most of the Greeks or the minority of the Greeks? Are you free to pass constitutional autonomy statutes? That's the real question. Look, we're not going to embark Galicia on a trip anywhere, we need to know who the travel partners are. I'll always be looking for consensus, I'll always try to find and find consensus because they're far away. Yesterday, eight autonomous presidents of three parties, which represent 62% of Spain's territory and more than 11 million inhabitants, have committed many more things than they are able to deal with in this parliament. You'll understand, Your Honor, that it's a strange thing to be able to deal with the socialist parties...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u29	...of Castela-A Mancha, Rioja, Aragon, all these kinds of issues, together with Asturias; five socialist presidents, a regionalist president who rules with socialists and a president of the People's Party. You'll understand that this is something that the Greeks are asking themselves. And the question I ask you again, because I was in the interest of reforming the Statute when you governed, and the problem wasn't the articulated, we can't even talk about the articulate. The problem is that the BNG, that minority and minority today, although unfortunately, gentlemen, no longer so minority... I say so for you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u30	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u31	I don't care, Your Honor, how these benches are distributed, but I can assure you, Your Honor, that the problem was that Galicia is a nation or a nation; then it was conforming to being a nation; now it is thought to be a republic, the Republic of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u33	You will understand, Your Honor, that neither you nor we are going to work or drink by the Republic of Galicia and consider Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u34	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u35	...the unit of Soviet republics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u36	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u37	That was the USSR. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the USSR anymore. [[Laughter]] It is now constitutional and democratic Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u39	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u40	Thank you, President. Let's move on to the next question. Question for oral response by the president of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the growing discomfort that expresses the Greek citizenship in the streets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u41	Whenever you want, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u42	Mr. Feijóo, I see that it seems to you that the Greeks vote badly when they vote for BNG and I think it's all a symptom of how you understand democracy. [[Applause]] Look, the worst thing that can happen to a ruler is to lose the connection to reality and install yourself into a sort of virtual reality built into the propaganda base. You are installed in the Monte Pio Matrix, and that disconnection prevents you from listening to thousands of people on the street protesting against a president who has become a problem. Because, Mr. Feijóo, more and more are the Greeks and the Greeks who see him as a thief, because it is someone who, instead of giving solutions, simply seeks to blame. And that's what thousands of people are saying on the street when they come out in defense of public health. Tell him the entire Navy area when he gets out on the street to defend his future. I told him on the street as well as the producers when they ask for fair prices so they could live on their work. And I told him the women, that this 25-N will go out again in the street to ask for more means, more resources against the macho violence. So, Mr. Feijóo, let me give you some advice: get out of the Matrix of Monte Pio, step into the reality of the street, listen to citizenship and bring solutions, because of course there are solutions, but what you need is political will. What we need is a president who exercises as president of Galicia and who ceases to be the delegate of the People's Party most ultra in history. Because look, it won't happen to him like the Married and end up praying Masses for Franco. [[Applause]] Listen, Mr. Feijóo, because the malaise does not stop growing day by day, and it won't cover up that discontent with its virtual propaganda on the Telexornal. And since BNG we have offered proposals to give this country a future. First proposal. An industrial plan for the Navy region, where the first point must be the public intervention of Alcoa. What do you expect to join this proposal that guarantees the future of more than a thousand jobs in the Navy? Aren't you ashamed to come to this parliament voting against the BNG initiative to rescue Alcoa? What else do you have to do the neighborhood of that neighborhood so you move it when there's more than a thousand jobs at stake? Second proposal. Primary care reinforcement plan, with more than 200 million euros, as the first measure to end twelve years of cuts in public health. How many more needed demonstrations to listen to? Because look, have one thing very clear: the people of this country will not surrender or stop in defending public health and will defeat their sovereignty. [[Applause]] Third proposal. It sits on the same table industry, producers and distribution to end the low prices of our agricultural sector. Fourth proposal. We set aside 1% of the budget to fight against gender violence, because commitment to the fight against machismo is demonstrated with more resources, more means and not putting a lila bond every November 25th. These are, Mr Feijóo, concrete, realistic proposals, which only need political will and would give this country a turn. And it would be to give an answer to what is currently claiming citizenship on the street. Get out of the Monte Pio Matrix, listen to and provide solutions, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u44	Yes, yes, if I'm happy about how the Greeks vote, that we're here and you're there. I'm absolutely happy about how the Greeks vote. [[Applause]] And the Greeks, who know how to vote, never gave the Galician Union to the Galician Nationalist Block, never, ever. I don't know what's gonna happen in the next forty years. What I'm convinced of is that BNG is not going to get an absolute majority in the country, because the country knows BNG very well. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very used to listening to what's going on in the streets, because before I took possession in 2009, after I won the election -- I was the Bipartite in the Government -- you and others already raised the first demonstration before taking possession. You'll understand I'm very used to listening to her on the street. But probably to hear what's going on in the street we need not be in the middle of all the street demonstrations, because if we don't, we just listen to those around us, and we have to listen to everyone, Your Honor. It is therefore important to defend, firstly, the general interest and not the partisan interest; secondly, to check whether a proposal fits the country's legislation; and thirdly, to see if a proposal can be financed or not. That's the role of a government president. But, as you will understand, this is what the presidency is hearing at the moment. Your Honor, tell me if I take note of what's going on in the street. Yes. Look, this is the photo of the Navy. [[Mr. President of the Board shows a photograph.]] It says, "Yes, energy solution." I took note and proposed a solution for the Cence, and I said from the beginning it was a fallacy to be talking about Alcoa until there was a reasonable price to produce primary aluminum in the country. I haven't changed my mind. What does BNG say? No, you're not. Don't you hear what's going on in the street? What does El País say? Well, we do not vote against the State's budget, where, indeed, Alcoa's timely intervention is not accepted. Next question. There's a demonstration in the Navy on the last 17th. How can we not hear on the street if my comrades were in the demonstration, mixed with the Socialist Party's comrades? You must be brave, Mr. Caballero, to go to this demonstration by the Socialist Party. That's right, the BNG isn't, the BNG was here, a sign from the BNG and away from the works committees, from the workers, from the political forces, because the BNG isn't going to the demonstrations, it's going to make a demonstration from the BNG, not from the Alcoa workers. [[Mr. President of the Board shows a photograph.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, of course we hear in the street, we hear in the street and we work, and that same Monday I was with a minister of the Socialist Party telling you that Alcoa has no solution if you don't lower the price of light or you don't make exclusive funding with a decisive contract for hyper-electrointensive companies. We've spent two years, the BNG devoted to something else, we devoted to the people of Alcoa. Talk about health. Look, Your Honor, the health barometer from the Ministry of Health just came out. Do you know that you've never had such a high public health score on the part of people, not the people of the BNG, the people of the country, the people who go to health, the people who use health?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u46	6.78 %...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u48	...a 6,78 % valuation...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u50	...the highest since there were records. And primary care, 7.46; in Spain, 7.29. You will understand, Your Honor, that you will not teach us to hire six hundred more workers, as we have hired. You'll understand, Your Honor, that there have never been so many health centers, hospitals, technology, and so much personal. But it would be good if we all heard, Your Honor. You'd better listen to the Vesta workers, not understanding how a wind production industry might be closed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u52	That's right, but then, when the demonstration is over, they're going to manifest themselves to the Town Councils against the wind farms for you to have work. [[Applause]] That's something else, Your Honor. Or listen to what the workers at the bridge thermal power station are asking for, what they want is -- with common sense -- not to close all the power stations, because we have a power supply problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u54	But once you go to the demonstration, they're asking for the closure of all the thermal power stations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u55	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u56	We have to listen to everyone, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u57	Mr. President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u58	What do you think if we listen to the Ence workers? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u60	Mr. Feijóo, I see you don't like the way the Greeks vote and you don't like the way the Galicians show up in the streets. [[Applause]] He just made it very clear in his intervention. Yes, yes, you don't like BNG coming to the control sessions to do what your job is, which is the executive's control. I don't know how much sense it makes for you to win a few elections. If you think that if you win an election, you're right and we're going to come here and give it to you, you're very wrong. We haven't even shut up in the past or shut up now, nor shut up in the future, because this country needs someone to defend its people, yes, yes. [[Applause]] And look, of course we hear, we hear and we read. We heard what's going on in Ence, and we also read the laws and judgments, which say that you've granted an illegal extension and that you now want to skip a sentence to continue benefiting from the board of directors of Ence, putting workers and workers at risk. [[Applause]] Listen, and listen to the workers of Ence, who are asking for an alternative for the factory to continue producing here, and the only legal and viable alternative is the transfer; they get to work and stop misleading the citizenship of this country, the workers of Ence and the neighbors and neighbors of the whole territory of Pontevedra. [[Applause]] We're also talking about Alcoa. You have sent your Members and Members to the demonstration, but you dare not step on that territory. You don't dare step on the Navy. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, it's been gone for months, yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And he tells us that the government of Sánchez doesn't want the intervention. All right. And do you want the intervention, Mr. Feijóo? Because you just voted against collecting a deal in the budgets for the intervention of Alcoa, Mr Feijóo. [[Applause]] And of course, they criticize us, too, because they say we're interventionists. No, no. We already know what the interventions the People's Party is defending, which is to take public and privatize companies so that their friends do business at the expense of everyone and everyone. He did it with AP-9 and he did it with Alcoa too, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u62	I want to remind you that it was Mr Aznar who privatized Inespal and put Alcoa now in a situation like the one we currently have. And if we have a problem, because we have it, and very serious, with the energy frame, the People's Party also has responsibilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is that the current law that we have designed and written by the People's Party, of its fist and letter. [[Applause]] And we lived a smart life, ladies and gentlemen, yes, yes, of course. In an electricity-rich Galician, we have thousands of jobs at risk, and what does Mr. Feijóo do? To veto the proposal of a Welsh electric tariff so we can benefit from energy, a Welsh electric tariff as they have, which would apply the common sense, and it is that with the country's electric wealth it is put to the service of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u63	Finish, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u64	And, really, it's a bad joke, Mr. Feijóo, that you talk about Dresses here and tell us that the problem of Dresses is BNG. No, no. But if anyone's adjudicating wind farms, it's his government. Why don't you do something very simple, which is to tie these new wind farms to some of the components in Galicia? You'll see that Vestas not only does not close, but there would be other industries that settle in the country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u66	But you, Mr. Feijóo, have a problem; I'm sorry, you have two problems: one, which is the Galician delegate of the People's Party beyond history and which governs thinking in the interests of the electric lobby and of the great economic powers and not of the country's interests. [[Murmurs.]] That's why she closes the vests, so if we're going to have an industry like the aluminium industry and that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u67	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u68	...we see that Galicia loses more and more jobs, because you're thinking about the board of directors of big companies and not us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u69	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u70	...workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Time's up, please. Time's up. No, I didn't touch him there, but time's up. Man, please look at the time, please! [[Applause]] Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, what are we left with? Don't we all agree that the votes we've had in the last elections are very good? How can you say that as we have so many votes we disconnected? You have a lot of votes now. Perhaps they now use the word Matrix, which is a word, really, very peculiar to the country. [[Laughter]] But about that, if it means opening, I'm not against it. But, in any case, Your Honor, returning to the important point, that if we are in favour and all we care about is the board of directors of the Ence. No, no, no, no. If the board of directors cares about three... what happens to the Greek mountains, what happens to families and to workers. These will continue to have work, be it in Galicia, Navia, wherever. [[Murmurs.]] We are the workers of the country who work here, the truckers of the country and the families of the country. We have to listen to everyone, Mrs. Pontón, we have to listen to everyone. [[Applause]] Another of the fallacies of the BNG: that we are against the timely intervention of Alcoa. False, of all falsehood. We are, if necessary, in favour of a timely intervention by Alcoa, but not of nationalization. We're not going to fool the workers, that's why you're here. The same day you manifested yourself in the Navy, outside the groups, outside the unions, that's yes, only with the BNG, with that sign from the BNG and out of all the work plans, the BNG and its union, the union and the BNG, point -- the rest of the country doesn't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, it's you, but all the Greeks know, there's no problem. But look, they stop fucking with the people of Ence, they stop fucking with the people of Alcoa, and they put you on a minimum of honesty, honesty, I don't say ideological anymore, but honesty as parliamentarians. Let's tell this government that you're not defending Alcoa, when I've been working with presidents Zapatero and Rajoy for twelve years, to solve the problems of Alcoa, we've solved the problems of Alcoa. Now it changes the government, the government where you are partners, and we have the Alcoa problem. It's a joke, Your Honor. How come I'm not going to the Navy? I invite you to come with me next Saturday to talk about fishing with the people of the Navy. [[Applause]] You're invited next Saturday. But, ladies, why don't we listen to everyone? Look, a politician's duty is to listen to people, a parliamentarian's obligation is to listen to all people, not just their party, all people, even most Galician people should listen to it. But do you have to listen to everyone? No doubt, Your Honor, and you too. I learned a lot from his entire bibliographic repertoire of demonstrations, which had been hibernate for four years, when you ruled. Now there's a demonstration of the police and the Civil Guard workers against this law that takes away their rights and puts them in a limited position to defend the laws and the Constitution. Are you going to go to that demonstration? We are, Your Honor, we are going to that demonstration. [[Murmurs.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, you have a problem. The problem is, they don't listen to the people, they hear their concentric circles, they hear their head union, we don't know if the union is the owner of the BNG or BNG is a union partner, but there are other unions, mostly by the way. Workers' and UXT committees are also trade unions, prior to the IGC, democratic ones, who were in favour of democracy when the IGC did not exist; listen also to the Workers' and UXT committees, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, I, of course, don't know what part of the Greek citizenship has asked you to go to a demonstration this weekend with Bildu to ask for the independence of Basquedi. [[Applause]] We have left to you their banners, their demonstrations and their request for independence from Basquedi. You're following through that old man.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u74	After attending Bildu's demonstration asking for Euskadi's independence and the conformation of Euskal Herria, you will understand, Mr. Caballero, that it is very difficult to compromise the Statute of Galicia with this independenceist and sovereignist force. But they're not worth this. Then they went to CUT.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u76	And now it turns out that we have to hear that BNG is a party that looks at Galicia's interests, which is a party that interests Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u77	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u78	...the state budgets are signed by their partners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u79	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u80	...left Republican, Bildu and PSOE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u81	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u82	...and you, as it is an absolutely party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u83	Your time is over, President. Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u84	...intransgression, they say they abstain. Vote for what they have to vote to defend Galicia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u85	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, in this case proposals not of law. Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members, on the need to open a residential centre for the care of children in a situation of social difficulty and with problems of conduct
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u86	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u87	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u88	Thank you very much, President. Well, you're going to talk here now about the voice of a very happy group with which the Greeks vote. Look, I believe that throughout the whole budget process, the commitment of the current Welsh Executive to the social needs of our country was made clear; a commitment that led the Galician Union to provide the Social Policy Council with 927.4 million euros, which makes it the largest budget of the historical series and that duplicates the resources it devoted to this matter the so-called two-party Government. In the years of government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, Galicia lived a period in which the development of social policies, support and infrastructures increased without any possibility of a comparison with any previous government. Galicia has passed from the 983 squares of day centers in 2009 to 3,367, 242 percent more; it has increased the squares in alzhemer centers by more than 110 %; community housing by more than 20 %; residences by more than 43 %, without counting the 900 news we want to do -- by the way, if you leave us in Ourense -- ; it has multiplied by eight librarian bonds for day centers and residences; the houses of the largest, a conciliation resource and attention to the largest in rural Galicia, which already has more than 415 squares; and the disability squares have increased by more than 23 %; we have doubled in these years the social resources of Galicia. And I think all opinions are respectable, but the data are unquestionable. This is the government with greater social sensitivity of Galician history. Look, this exponential social development that is living in our country doesn't intend to serve as an excuse either for relaxation or for self-competition; they have heard us on many occasions; on the contrary, it must serve as an incentive to improve those areas where we still have room for improvement, because there remains a lot of room for improvement. Today we are presenting an initiative which aims to raise the unanimous support of this House, of the Galician Parliament, to promote a new social resource of a pioneer character, a residential centre specializing in the care of minors in situations of social difficulty or with problems of conduct. We therefore want to promote Galicia's first protection centre specialized in caring for children with mental health-related disorders. We want to promote it in a municipality in the rural region of Galicia, specifically in the municipality of Ponte Caldelas, and we want to make use of a public space of historical value, the so-called house of Quintan, which was handed over by the Salvora Foundation -- to which we want to express thanks for its generosity from here -- and that because of its characteristics it is ideal for this property to become what we intend it to be: a home where minors receive attention and care in conditions comparable to the family environment. We sincerely believe that this is a great opportunity for the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas. You have the possibility of hosting a resource that today has only two major Spanish cities, the two largest: Madrid and Barcelona; Madrid has a hospital unit in Gregorio Marañón dedicated to this issue, and another in Barcelona, in San Joan de Dios. Therefore, that of Ponte Caldelas would be the first unit of this type of non-health care, of an extra-hospital nature, which aims to predict precisely the hospital income of these minors. It's a chance, too, because it's going to generate qualified jobs. Junta will add €700,000 a year to create more than 20 highly qualified jobs directly at that center: social educators, social workers, doctors, nurses; and I therefore believe that people of professional qualifications are inescapable. And besides, like any opening of a centre of these characteristics, because it means an impulse of activity in the municipality at the educational level, with the arrival of new minors, at the commercial level, at the social level, etc. This center aims to launch in coordination with the Galego Health Service and to enter into the Mental Health Plan that is pushing the Galician Union. It's not a health center, nor is it a hospital center, but whether it's going to provide or intends to provide a suitable response for 12 boys -- because that's their capacity -- that they have specific needs. And we believe that, in addition, the real estate is ideal for hosting this kind of resource, because it's a safe space, because it's a quiet space, it's a very comfortable house that is very well equipped and also has space that is needed for young people. But, despite meeting recognised needs, I think that for all the groups in the House, we are experiencing some resistance from the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas, because it is more specific, from the mayor of Ponte Caldelas, who, for the sake of the party confrontation, is fueling an artificial controversy -- and I have to say -- using very disrespectful expressions, very unfortunate for the potential users of this center, that we should not forget at any time that they are smaller, they are smaller. And I think stigmatizing minors who suffer from mental health disorders is a political irresponsibility, and they're going to let me save the personal qualification I deserve. But I think we're all going to agree that it's political irresponsibility. They're not problematic people, they're not delinquents, they're not going to open up any hospice or reformatory, they're a specialized center dedicated to minors, that Junta has an obligation to protect because they're victims of a situation of disappearance and so I think they deserve the respect of everyone and a minimal sensitivity on the part of all, including a mayor who is not even now having. I have to say, it's also an irresponsibility to insist that this center is used for the installation of a day center, because it's a real estate -- we've already discussed it on this camera -- that it doesn't have the right conditions to accommodate a resource of these features. We're talking about a three-storey house that lacks the large common spaces that are needed for the installation of a day center, because a day center constantly needs spaces for the user's coexistence, and in that house, in that immovable, there are no such architectural circumstances; in addition, these types of spaces cannot be enabled and therefore that use must be discarded. Nor can we dedicate ourselves to another proposal that has been made, which was that of an intergenerational center, exactly the same, for its architectural characteristics, because we are talking about a house that lacks differentiated access and the accessibility conditions necessary to accommodate a resource of other features as an intergenerational center. I told them we're living on some issues that I think are little edifying. I have here a publication by the mayor himself who says that with Quintan's house completely equipped and ready to set up and shut down for ten years now, "coocate us" -- that's the expression quoted, not by me, but by the mayor -- "a juvenile centre with problems." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document.]] I sincerely believe that it is a very unfortunate way of speaking about this kind of resources and needs. So what I hope is that these kinds of attitudes will be rectified. That's one of the fundamental reasons why we brought this proposal to the House, because I think it would be interesting for the House to pronounce itself in a unique and unequivocal way, saying that what we are meeting is a necessity. And not as the mayor says, who says the board meets their needs. No, no, no, no. The Union meets the needs of the Galician society and the Galician society is demanding these types of units. I think putting Ponte Caldelas on the map of a service they only have Madrid and Barcelona should be a cause for pride and never a cause for controversy. In any case, I ask for the support of the House and from here I also ask the mayor of Ponte Caldelas to correct and not to commit and not to make mistakes in the past, those who led him to have the sad honour of being the only German mayor who shut down an information center to the woman. I hope that it will not happen again, that it will not make mistakes with a centre whose support we call on all groups of the House today. And that from there we can continue to work on what we've been doing since Alberto Núñez Feijóo arrived at the Government of Galicia, to provide the Greeks with more and better social services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u90	...because with planning and common sense that's a goal we can achieve. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u91	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning. After this challenging moment when the People's Party has dedicated itself to distributing meats of good and bad gales -- that which votes for the Black Bloc, bad gales; who belonged to the IGC, bad gales; what does not vote for the People's Party, bad gales too -- is a lesson of democracy! [[Applause]] On the issue that brings us here today, trying also to focus a little bit on the question where the spokesperson for the People's Party now stood, because on the initiative we are not talking about anything about the Quintan House and the specific case of Ponte Caldelas, but, on a general basis, about the resources of care and intervention to minors and adolescents in a situation of vulnerability due to various circumstances (health, economic or social) circumstances, but as is a matter we have already discussed in the Commission, we will certainly deal with it since the BNG. From the general to the most concrete, because, indeed, Galicia has or takes account of a network of care and intervention resources in the field of the protection of minors that is insufficient. This is not an opinion, it is collected in memory of the budgets of the Social Policy Council repeatedly over the past three years, which I have consulted now, these days, preparing this intervention, but surely if we go back beyond the year 2019 it was already collected as a weakness or a need to create more network, more programs and intervention and prevention services in the face of the situation of vulnerability, the risk of exclusion or other kind of protection for minors. And we're talking about other than difficulties or areas where there's no defined competence. Last week since the BNG we betrayed this issue in the area of a juvenile protection centre, such as that of Rabade in the Holy Angel, because of the deficiencies of the Education Council in the care of minors who are internal to that juvenile protection centre. And we have also been talking about for years now in those memories accompanying budgets that there will be a growing demand for minors who have problems of behaviour I insist that for many and many reasons, and that it will therefore be necessary to expand that network of care centers, from intervention to protection to minors. I agree -- and I think we have already said it and expressed it on other occasions since the BNG -- that it is necessary to deal with maximum caution and respect situations of social exclusion, situations of disappearance or even minor who are in custody or guardianship of the Galician Union, because they have open judicial proceedings or are fulfilling some kind of decision or judicial conviction. The situations that many people live in, many homes and many families, we don't want them for any of us at all. And it's neither guilt nor responsibility for the minor many situations that they have to live and that condition their childhood and adolescence, and, if they are repeated over time, often their own future as adults. In any case, the People's Party has not just entered the door, Mr Pazos, you, besides, who boast with much of the absolute majority, you have been ruling for twelve years, and that deficiency in the services specifically for child care and protection, and especially for adolescence and minors in custody and custody, or others who may otherwise need intervention support, could solve or work in which it has been Solvented in the last twelve years. And I'm going to put to you concrete examples that you've worked on in that specific area of Galician Youth Policy in the opposite sense. Because now we're talking about this, if you want to create different conditions to other centres that already exist in the country, but I couldn't, of course, by reading the initiative that we are discussing today, because of the case, for example, of the Montealegre Juvenile Protection Centre, of Ourense, that you have been closed from 2012 to 2018, that you have closed it for six years, where then, in addition to making a huge economic effort, you've just managed by a private entity, like so many other child protection centers in our country, to open it -- I insist -- later with many shortcomings in the direct public management that you've had for years. By putting specific situations and examples and not just talking about the abstract. [[Applause]] In any case, what we're talking about here is the creation of a centre of different characteristics than the protection of children that we already have in our country today, which would be for attention -- as we have just said or explained in the previous intervention -- to those minors who find themselves in difficulties, but not in the judicial field or in the custody and guardianship of the Galician Union, but there are situations of family conflict. In particular, in particular, it is now verbally mentioned that it is the Quintan house, which is in the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas, which is a public-owned building of the board of Galicia, because it has been surrendered for more than ten years; that we also land things a little bit, let's put things in its context. Speaking of that particular case, he said, "It's an ideal real estate," and I'd say, "It was twelve years ago. [[Applause]] Of course, here we have to put some memory and context on things. Because the story of the Quintan House is a rather embarrassing story or should give to hide your head to the People's Party Government. [[Applause]] Because I insist that twelve years ago it's a building that is at the disposal of the Galician Council for Sociosanitary Use, it has been handed over for that purpose twelve years ago by the Salvora Foundation, there is a decree that is in force -- until it is said otherwise -- since 2008 so it is created in that center a protected housing for the care of people with intellectual disabilities, which also made a huge economic effort from the public sphere -- I insist -- twelve years ago with more than half a million euros about to condition, to enable and equip that building. Sure, a twelve-year-old building closed down, you close your home for twelve years and you'll see how much it's gonna cost you to get back to it more than to be living in it all that time. And from 2009 on, that house was completely abandoned. And now, too, to sit down and land things a little bit, the House's support is called for. We're going to vote in favour. We have done so in addition to the committee in a similar debate, in other words. In fact, it was our group who at that time proposed not to focus solely on the centre of the day, but rather to open it a little more to any other social welfare service to meet the demands in our country and the deficiency in the areas that they considered. It's also a deficiency in Ponte Caldelas Town Hall, paying attention to older and dependent people. Having a day center at Ponte Caldelas continues to require it because it doesn't have a public character. In any case, I insist: we are going to support a measure that is already a reality to some extent, because it is auctioned, as you know and you also know the People's Party Member; it is bid and fined this contract by open procedure for a few months ago, since October 17, 2021 approximately, this year, with a value or a value of 1.4 million euros, so that it is managed by a private company, which is also available from all over the world to know it more in detail. [[Mr. Rodil Fernández shows a document.]] In any case, we insist that, indeed, there is a deficiency, but we incorporate an amendment, also before we know so often that this initiative was dedicated to or wanted to be dedicated to, to solve another problem that exists in our country, which reaches the attention and protection of minors, which is the fact that the Deputy of Pontevedra, a provincial deputy, is responsible for the Prince Felipe Centre. A provincial deputy is responsible for a complex but specifically for a child protection centre where it does not belong to him, because both education and social policy and the protection of minors fall within the competence of the Autonomous Administration and, therefore, the Galician Union. What we ask for is, indeed, all support to open this space in the Quintan house of Ponte Caldelas, but also so that once and for all the Galician Union feels with the Provincial Deputy of Pontevedra to take the necessary steps to pass this protection centre Prince Felipe to become part of the network of the Autonomous Public Administration, of the Galician Union. Because Members are assuming competences that don't correspond to them -- that's to begin with -- that they are anachronistic and they don't respond at all to the social reality and the population reality and the territorial reality of this country, too; but they don't have to assume in any case intervention and protection services to minors in situations of vulnerability and problems of all kinds, but also conductual. You don't belong to a provincial deputy and you have to end this situation as well. That's why we ask, as you add, not as a replacement, but as a replacement, that, in addition to the creation of this centre at Ponte Caldelas, also assumes the management of Prince Felipe. It is something they also know, they know, because once again the Provincial Deputy is insisting that the measures be taken to do so. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u94	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, because it's the full closest to the 25th-N, I'd like to make an incision before I begin my intervention, joining the words of yesterday in the recognition of young girls and women who today have more information and sensitivity than ever, who commented on Mrs. Rodil and my companion as well, and to what all the groups of this camera were all referring, and who, of course, bring all that sensitivity and all that strength that means hope for the future in our society. But I also want to claim the role of the first anonymous feminists. Today many are no longer there and other are older women who fought in a very harsh social context, very oppressive and paid dearly for it. And I personalize it in the story of a woman from my people who went into prison there in 1974 with her baby and left a 13-year-old daughter in disarray. His crime was to separate from his husband when he was forbidden and later to redo his life and have another daughter. What we now see as normal cost a lot and it was the cost of all those women's courage that I personalize today in the history of this woman who makes me feel very proud, because she was my grandmother Tina -- who is no longer -- with her baby, my aunt, and under 13 years old, my mother; who lived the worst face of oppressive society being just a child, in this case my mother, and who taught me what the word resilience is. [[Applause]] Very hard stories at that time by the social pressure exerted, especially the family nucleus, which, like her, many anonymous women who don't have a street or a square but which were so important with those giant steps to normalize and open up to those steps that we enjoy today and that we continue the legacy of feminism. Well, entering into matter, childhood and adolescence is the pending task in our society, also here in Galicia. Because when bad data comes, when there's a crisis, the most vulnerable population nucleus corresponds to minors and adolescents, and within these most vulnerable people are already at risk of disappearance and therefore protected by the administration. And this crisis was no exception, since child poverty and youth unemployment, the impact on mental health in children and adolescents is worrying. There are data such as those already mentioned in other initiatives here, such as Unicef's latest report on the impact of technology on adolescence, which is a fundamental report that we have to take into account from now on, together with the University of Santiago de Compostela and the General Council of Computer Engineering Colleges of Spain; worrying data to alert those responsible for all administrations. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen, with the youth? We must address and deepen this issue. And for that it is necessary to invest resources, not on the contrary, which is what the Government of Greece is doing in the last two years, when it decreases by the second consecutive year the specific budget match for youth, and in this context in addition. But all this was worse, as I said at first, for the most vulnerable minors, those who find themselves under risk conditions and disappear by different variables, and who are direct responsibility of all of us, of all citizenship. And more so when the Administration is aware of the significant increase in child custody in the last year. It's a question, therefore, key, where investment is needed, but with knowledge. It is important to deal with this issue in the Parliamentary House, and in this case we thank the People's Party for finally deciding to speak and decide to deal with these issues. And I'm talking about child protection, although the proposal, as I said well, is not going to say in particular in this sense, but we consider it important to talk about them as well. Because minors who are at risk of missing from the administration are, as I said, responsible to this Government of Greece through the Council of Social Policy and therefore a priority and responsibility of all. Today they bring a proposal which is already announced and decided on their own priority by the Government of Greece and which they want to endorse in the Parliamentary House with most of it. It's understood that they speak of a juvenile centre with problems of conduct, but with tutors in charge, not protected by the administration. That's what we'd like you to clarify. We understand that no, that they would not be protected, but it would be good for the next intervention to clarify it. Just as we can also be clarified in the next intervention, to also decide on this LNP, whether it will be public and direct management or not. Because it would also be important to take this situation into account, because, look! it's not a minor matter. We're talking about minors and direct management is no doubt about the best option for the control and oversight capacity that we can do in this case of this type of center. And today we're talking about minors with behavioural problems. And I ask, what about minors with behavioural problems? I was commenting on Mr Pazos, who is the first centre specialized in behavioural disorders. It's not like that, Mr. Pazos. And you know that there's a specialized centre in juvenile behavior disorders, which is the Holy Angel Center, in Rábade. I understand you're aware of that, don't you? I don't know why he says he's the first center specialized in conduct disorders. There is already a centre specializing in conduct disorders. However, a lot of things have happened in the last few years with that center, something has been happening for years in a center that has been working for decades and full performance up to a few years. Currently -- and take note, because this is important and significant -- the staff of the center Santo Anxo, in Rabade, is 18 educators, 3 educators at night, 1 psychologist, 2 night vigilantes, 10 private security monitors, 1 deputy director, 1 director, 4 cooks, 3 waiters, 1 waiter, 1 administrative person, 2 cleaning people; in total, 47 employees for 6 minors, for 6 minors. I repeat: in total, 47 public employees, dependent on the Social Policy Council, for an average occupation in the last year of 6-7 minors. It's understood to be totally incongruent. In addition, in 2012 there were 32 squares, and in which nothing more and nothing less than 2.5 million euros were invested to expand it and give them coverage to more squares, but in 2019, in addition, just a short time ago, Junta invested a million more in the packaging of the centre. So that these millionaire investments are then used or infra-use? What's going on? [[Applause]] What's going on in this juvenile center then? We would also like it to be clear to us, because it matters to minors of all kinds, to those who are protected and to those who are not and, above all, to those who are protected in this case, who are the most vulnerable, because they don't have someone pending on many occasions, some yes, some, others, but sometimes they don't have someone behind them who supports their situation. That's why the Administration has to be up to the circumstances. Why would those investments if they don't use it? What's going on then? Less cement and more knowledge -- they said in a demonstration --. [[Applause]] Because they come here today to sell that they're going to make a center for minors with behavioral problems and what's in force don't use it. It's totally incongruent. This is what we'd like to see to it, because maybe we're wrong and there's some key that gets us away, but priori there's already a juvenile center with behavioural problems that aren't using it and that it also has a very broad and very professional template, that they're not -- let's say -- taking advantage of -- they're not taking advantage of that human capital that's in that center. Why haven't you given access to new minors if there's a demand? Why have so big investments been made in the center in recent years and then they don't push this center into their task? Why did they get to this situation? It is therefore understood that there is a clear incongruence in the administration of funds for all and all of the Greeks, in this area in addition, in such a sensitive area that it really shows a lack of knowledge on this matter. And it can also be a lack of dialogue with professionals themselves. Missing active listening from this Government of Greece. Last year in this chamber it became evident when we learned that the counselor, who is not recently arrived, is not a novice, is a counsellor who repeats legislation and commented to us the professionals of this center who never came, not one day, never stepped down the center. You have to be soaked in reality, and especially in the minors who are in charge of the administration itself. So we hope that yes, that he had already gone to the center, and, if not, that he would come as soon as possible to get watered from reality. What's going on in that center? Why is a center that has been referenced for decades being inundated? I, as a professional, as a psychologist, knew the work, the great work they did in that center of St. Anxo, of Rhodes, because he was known by everyone in the profession, for the good work that was always done with minors with problems of delicious conduct and conduct. And finally, to end by asking the Board, since it is presumed to have the greatest budget of the historical series, which puts the pillars and assumes its competences by directly managing all the juvenile centers in Galicia, as Mrs. Rodil said. It can't be that an MP assumes such a sensitive competition that belongs to the Galician Union. We can't go on like this. That's why more listening, knowledge about the issue, involvement with the guardianship of minors, who are our responsibility, of all and of all, and responsibility of society itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u96	And as such, we have an obligation to maximize the resources of all, intelligently and knowingly, to approach us as soon as possible and to offer these minors who are not guilty of their situation the true equality of opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u97	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u98	At first we agree, I want to join in that recognition that Mrs. Ortega was doing to the young women. I think everyone we're here is working to make them have a splendid future, which they deserve. And to me, since you have remembered your mother and grandmother, you have allowed me to remember my daughter, who is today to greet us, who is ten years old and I also work for that future. So congratulations. [[Applause]] And from here on, some considerations. The first one. Mrs. Rodil, I'm sorry to bother you with withdrawing from you the monopoly of distributing good and bad meats to the Greeks, but we all have opinions. Yes, yes, yes, I recognize it, you've been sharing these meats for twelve years. [[Murmurs.]] The problem is, if we set up the office, we have forty-two people here to ship meats and there's a few less. You should put the accounts down to see if they're compensated for that galeguity-recognition exercise. And from there, man! I recognize Mrs. Ortega's effort. He made an admirable effort. On the side of your party -- I have to tell you -- I hope you value it, because you put it here ten minutes to talk about everything, not name what's going on at Ponte Caldelas, about the attitude of your mayor, didn't say a single word. And he came to talk about the Holy Angel, about Rhodes. Well, I think we've already dealt with this subject on various occasions, and by the way, I'm talking about opening a center dedicated to mental health disorder; specifically there's none, no, there's none in Galicia of these characteristics, I've already told you; you want to confuse and mix plums. [[Murmurs.]] From there you are on your right. And, of course, they tell me to invest resources. Man, I already told you that in social matters we doubled the resources that the two-party government was providing. It's funny that the two-party government should be applauded for providing half of the resources that it currently does for Junta, it must be applauded, it was a fantastic government, and it must be criticized for the government that doubled those resources. It's a curious thing. And since he talks to me about minors and he talks to me about youth, man, it's the government that has declared the freeness of childhood schools, it's the government that has driven the nested houses in the countryside and it's the government, by the way, which has been twelve years at frozen university rates. There are not many governments in Spain who can say it; no, there is none, just that of the Galician Union. And that's why we're very proud of the investment that makes this government. [[Applause]] And from here on, you tell me: no, you come here that goes through a decision that is already made by most; no, most of you have already gone through it; we've come here because there are a number of problems and if you're putting traps in the council, you're putting your mayor trappings in the council and we're here trying to find the support of unanimity, to see if Mr. Díaz so reflects, who seems to me to be kicking but very much to the bottom. And we've started with the little pulleys. Is the center going to be public or private? The center is public. And management is therefore an equal management, exactly what you do in the centers that manage both the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Party. You tell me, no, it's just that all the centers that treat children have to be of direct public attention. One question, Mrs. Rodil: Are you going to rule over her? I think so. I see you're not interested in the subject. Ah!, okay, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The point of attention to Muras' childhood is last week, which we're not talking about years ago, we're not talking about the Bipartite, we're talking about today. Three kids, privatized service -- you say --, 229,000 euros. Is this the model? Oh, no, no, of course, you have to understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Privatization when it is practiced by PP is a sin, but when it is practiced by BNG it is a virtue that we all have to applaud. But does such exercise lead to permanent hypocrisy? I think not, I think it must be a little serious. So, I would ask you, really -- I appreciate your support -- that they stop doing this kind of demagogy. You privatize these kinds of services in every and every one of the administrations in which they govern: in Lugo, 100 percent; in Coruña, 100 percent; in the city of Muras -- I just told you -- 229,000 euros to attend three children. Home! don't give us lessons on how we have to manage the centers that depend on the German Government, and of course don't do it by taking the opposite of their own management where they rule. It's just that you have to be a little more serious. You were talking about being late. I regret the delays, but it is true that there is a part of the delay which is attributable to Junta, I already recognized him in the commission itself. You forget that there is another delay that is attributable to the need for change of use and that it took some time, and you also forget that there was a delay because the mayor, who had the keys, put up for the brave -- the statements are yours, not mys -- a gentleman in the immovable because he was in a difficult situation, then you had to go to the judicial road to dislodge him, because he didn't even go with hot water, and you had to invest 40,000 euros to clean up and fix all the damage he caused at the Quintan house. So, come here and put forward the delay to the Board exclusively seems to me a little short of equanimity. And finally, your amendment. You say you're assuming the deputy powers of the Union. I mean, first, I can't accept the amendment because there's a protocol signed between the Board and the deputy to serve that service, until 2022 -- I think I remember -- therefore, that service is covered. And secondly, you should do the math properly, because, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u100	...you never talk about skills. I'm talking to you about another agreement, by the way, one that's a lot of trouble these days, that of the GES, where the Deputy of Pontevedra, which you rule, the Deputy of the Coruña, where you rule, and the Deputy of Lugo, where you rule, have risen from the table saying that they break their commitment and that they refuse to provide funding for a competition that is exclusive to the councils of more than 20,000 inhabitants and provincial deputies. I'll make you an offer, and if you want, we'll trade: you take 100 percent of the GES competition and we take the center, and we'll see who's getting the accounts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u102	Of course, but they're not interested. What they're interested in is continuing to mess up, trying to confuse people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u104	...and see if they can win some Welsh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u105	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u106	...that they are the ones who will give you the good German lamb. Those who continue to vote for those who practice the reason that I suppose we will still receive the meat that you so much like to send, that of the poor German. Too bad, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u107	Thank you. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in the field of internal trade
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u108	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u109	To formulate this non-law proposal, Mrs Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u110	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Local trade only survives this pandemic that we are living in, whose effects last more than a year and a half in an area that has been in serious difficulty for many years under the yoke of competition of large chains, of electronic commerce giants, and the great problem of the depopulation of our Earth, which accelerates the closure of small businesses in rural areas. There is no population, no commerce, no employment. It's quite easy to understand. This is what's happening in empty Galicia, and to Mr. Feijóo's government it seems that this problem doesn't go with it. It is estimated that, at least and generally, Galician trades have lost more than 20 %, which in many cases already compromise the viability of the commercial project. The average loss reached is between 30 % and 40 %. The Galician Trade Federation estimates that between 20% and 25% of businesses could close over this 2021. Before this crisis, the future of small trade was becoming increasingly uncertain. In trade, 1,073 companies in Galicia disappeared in 2019. His delicate situation is not new. Before the virus arrived, trade had already closed in Galicia an average of six daily establishments due to lack of generational relief, oversupply of supply and the rise of electronic commerce. In 2020 1,374 self-employed businesses were closed in Galicia. 2021 gets worse all bookmarks registered to date at a start of the year. Only in January of this year did 836 businesses close, an average of 25 closures a day. And as far as employment is concerned, in the sector, the decrease in sales, logically, leads to a drop in employment, which dropped to 2.6 % in Galicia. And, in view of this demolition data for small and medium-sized trade, what does Mr. Feijóo's government do? So what he's doing is he's going down to EUR 5 million to trade for EUR 2022.5 million less to trade. This is what Mr. Feijóo's government does. [[Applause]] It is not reasonable that in 13.117 million consolidated budgets held by the Galician Board for the 2022 fiscal year, the trade share does not increase. It's a shame. You can always go the worst, the truth, because last year we criticized that only in this game we were going to increase by 7 million and it turns out that this year is not going to increase by a little, it turns out to decrease by 5 million. Let's go back, like crabs, let's go back. As this goes on, the game is going to disappear for trade; 5 million less, or more or less, 5 million. And, in the first half of the year, only 7% of the budget of the Government of Greece for the management, regulation and promotion of Galician trade was implemented. In the face of this bad situation of small trade, what Mr Feijóo and his advisers should do, at least, is to have carried out much of the budget in order to be able to boost and support this sector, which is in a continuing crisis. This is a sample of Mr. Feijóo's poor planning and management. And this proves little, very little that he cares about small and medium-sized commerce. The Galician Union must take action to promote Galician economic reactivation when we start walking towards the new normality. The government of Feijóo has to help trade in proximity and self-government, they need support in order to reopen, generate jobs and enable families to have monthly income. The proximity trade offers a differentiating value. The product does not fail because the clientele has already seen it in the store, and the proximity trade can offer a quality service, customized and committed to its surroundings, where it generates wealth and employment. The Socialists want to propose the following measures to the German Government of the People's Party, in order to cooperate to help the small and medium-sized trade sector get out of this crisis. One of the measures is to increase the budget in Programme 751A for the management, regulation and promotion of internal trade. This proposal has already been amended in the budgets of the year 2022. Another measure that we ask the Galician Union is to promote guidance, information and advice to the Welsh commercial sector, as well as continuing training in digitisation for the trade sector. Traders need, more than ever, to know regulations, help, new digital tools and risk prevention. The Greek trade must be in innovation, modernization and digitization, otherwise it will remain behind. Very related to this measure is the next step we ask the Autonomic Government, which is to develop campaigns and promotions for young people, so that young people buy in proximity trade, because these young people don't know that there is small and medium-sized trade. You don't know! But, of course, we have to campaign using their digital channels, because if we don't, we don't get to that part of the population, and I think it's a very important part to which trade should come, the small and medium-sized trade. Another measure is that you have to develop a programme to promote generational relevance in the trade sector. There is no generational relief in the trade sector, small and medium-sized trade, and this is another of the great problems of small and medium-sized trade. And there's nothing done about Mr. Feijóo's government here either. In addition, there would also be a need for a plan to reopen small businesses that had to be closed due to the pandemic for sufficient budget items and to be able to reactivate small and medium-sized trade -- which, of course, we have already launched an initiative in the 6th Commission. The autonomous government has to increase the amount of subsidies for small and medium-sized trade associations and federations, since, given the lack of liquidity in frozen or suppressed quotas for months, it will not allow them to carry out the actions that trade needs in this situation of the economic crisis that is being experienced. The aid to minimize the impact of the Covid-19 was totally insufficient, even small in the Greek trade, and they arrived late, very late, by Mr. Feijóo's Government. And the only thing that made this government of Mr Feijóo, the great extent of trade, in the midst of economic crisis, the only measure, was the Active Bonus, which, by the way, did not have all the success that was created. It's more, according to the merchants, there was no massification we expected, so it had to extend the deadline. Well, it is necessary to act vigorously and firmly and do it now, if we want to save the sector of small and medium-sized trade. While it is true that some measures have been taken since the autonomous administration, they are totally insufficient measures, given the extreme seriousness of the situation in which small and medium-sized trade is living. For that, we need to complete and improve measures to prepare for the return of economic activity to normal, since we are already in a new stage of the pandemic. On the contrary, nothing can prevent the massive closure of small and medium-sized trade and the enormous loss of jobs, as well as the consequences, which would be for the economy, at all levels, very, very serious. They help the small and medium-sized trade, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they help this sector that has been in crisis for many, many years. Tell Mr. Feijó's government to get to work and support the small and medium-sized trade now, because if not, we'll all regret it. We'll all regret it! Support the trade sector now. Thank you very much, and nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u111	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mrs Sanz Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. I want my first words today to be to thank and value the role played by the proximity trade during this time of pandemic, because trade is a sector that, despite having suffered a great impact on its activity, has been able to ensure from the first day of confinement that all citizens had access to food and other products of first need, and also because it is a sector that has had exemplary behavior in adapting to the new situation, applying the different restrictive measures according to which they were approving and investing and adapting their businesses to physically adapt them and always protecting the health of their workers and their customers. [[Applause]] In this difficult process, trade has never been alone, always had the Government of the Union next to it, in ongoing dialogue with the sector. But that doesn't prevent us from recognizing the enormous effort made by all of the merchants to raise their blinds every day while the rest of the population were confined to our homes. Already entering the bottom of this non-law proposal, I want to point out first that half-truth is being told and that biased information is being provided, even twisting the figures. Because the proposed group, the Group of Socialists, is aware, or should be, that the resources to be allocated to Galicia's trades will increase in 2022 compared to 2021. I repeat, that they will increase and not decrease by 5 million, as Mrs. Gallego has said, and I will explain. Rounding up, the total budget of the Directorate-General for Trade for the year 2022 will be EUR 25 million, while the budget for the year 2021 was EUR 30 million, and so far the only truth, since in the year 2021 it included an extraordinary departure, a timely departure from the expansion of the Institute of Vigo, the Ifevi, of EUR 7.9 million. And since these works have been adjugated during this exercise, obviously, this figure is not present, it does not move to the budget of the year 2022. Having said this, and if we look at the different shares included in the Directorate-General for Trade's Budgets project for next year, we see how the measures for the modernisation, entrepreneurship and innovation of the commercial sector and commercial peas increase by 29 %. I mean, they go from 9.6 million euros to 12.4 million euros next year. [[Applause]] That is to say, Mrs Gallego, the resources that reach the traders' pockets, which is what they really care about, will increase the next year by 29% in the measures I have just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government considers proximity trade to be a priority sector, since it is a fundamental pillar of our economy and our employment. We have over 28,000 companies dedicated to this activity, which account for 14.6% of our productive tissue, contribute 12.3% to our GDP and occupy more than 177,000 people in Galicia. But proximity trade is also vital from the social point of view and from the dynamization of local income. Trade is full of life our cities, our people, our neighborhoods and our rurals, and also from that perspective deserves the administration of all administrations. In that sense, there has never been a greater bet on the Council of Galicia in support of the proximity trade as it has been done in recent times and how it will undoubtedly be done in 2022. And that commitment goes far beyond the budgets of the Directorate-General for Trade, since the effort made by the Board of Galicia to be next to the sector is cross-cutting and conjugates measures from different autonomic departments. With the return to normality, what concerned the merchants most was that citizens had stopped coming to their establishments. They asked for measures to stimulate the physical return of the clientele to the proximity trades. For that reason, the Galician Union launched the Active Trade bond program, being the first autonomous community to promote a program of this size. It was a demand from the sector, but it was also a measure included in the report of the Committee of Economic Experts created by the Government of the Union there for the early days of the pandemic, in particular on 11 April 2020. And today, Mrs Gallego, we can say that it was a very effective and very welcoming measure, since it mobilised 25 million euros in sales in the neighbouring businesses of Galicia. The program, which began on October 31st, had a total of 5,696 attachments and 237,398 bonuses downloaded, many of them by young people, Mrs. Gallego. This tool was recognized by the sector as one of the best measures implemented in the field of commercial dynamisation and demonstrated the effectiveness of public-private collaboration. Another challenge facing trade is digitization. Even before the collapse of the vault, trade was subject to a profound process of evolution. Internet, social networks, new technologies, online sales platforms... were changing consumer buying habits and trade was making an important effort to adapt to that new way of consumption. The pandemic brutally accelerated this process, and there trade also relied on the support of the Galician Union for measures to implement and boost the digital strategy. This instrument was demanded by the prosthetics of proximity trade, but also by important international bodies such as the OECD, which proposed as one of the concrete measures to help small trade implement aid to help small physical retailers to sell online. The program balance is also really positive: 773 marketers and beneficiary artisans, 2,329 implanted digitisation actions and a resource mobilization of 7.6 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, my time is limited and I will no longer extend with the support of the Directorate-General for Trade, which, for its part, has already been the subject of a specific appearance in Commission 6a. I was saying before the Galician Union supports the trade of proximity cross-sectionally from different departments, and I'm just going to put some example of this. Trade is also supported, for example, by the Employment and Equalade Council, through direct assistance from the three rescue plans. Let's remember that the room is still open. And, in fact, today we know that in the first three plans 9,155 applications were met, which allowed us to inject 20.3 million euros into your business. I insist, because the figure is relevant, we speak of 20.3 million euros, which went directly to the pockets of the traders. Trade is also supported where Igape, in most of its programs, with digital check, Export digital, Igape Reply, in collaboration with the Galician Trade Federation, with microcredit or with the Re-Actiona program. Trade is supported by measures to promote energy saving and efficiency with Good Pyme trade energy or by self-consumption aid in the service sector. And all of this must be added to other instruments in the labour market, as were the ERTEs, which were created with so much intensive labour reform promoted in the Rajoy Government and which is now mostly funded thanks to the solidarity of the European Union. Allow me to quote here, because the words of the President of the Galician Trade Federation have fallen into the debate at the inauguration of the Galician Trade Congress which was held last week. Speaking of the impact of the pandemic on its sector, he said, "There have been closures, something compensated by the opening of new businesses, but if you hadn't done everything done through the federation, in collaboration with other institutions, the closures would have been greater," and valued the figure of the ERTE stating that, if there wasn't, the trades could not have survived. And precisely now, which we are talking about the role of the support of the different administrations to the trade sector, I would like to know the views of the opposition groups on how to manage the funds from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, known as the Next Generation Funds, which grant EUR 415 million for the trade sector during the next three years. I'd like to know what you think about that management being taken directly from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, when we're talking about exclusive competition from the Autonomous Community, such as internal trade. What do you think of Mrs Gallego, and especially her government partners, as regards the recentralisation of competences? Do you think it is good that the role of autonomous communities is limited only to being present in the evaluation committees but not in the design of the measures or in the prior reports of the evaluation of projects? How do you think these aids, which have already been convened -- three in September -- addressed to the municipalities, were in competitive competition but without a clear definition of the criteria and without a reservation to the autonomous community? I hope, Mrs. Gallego, that in your reply you tell us what your group thinks about how to manage these funds. We, from the People's Group, believe that the economic resources that are coming through the European Union's common generosity and effort must be used to promote territorial and social cohesion rather than to promote a sort of winning councils and losing councils. And another topic you don't want to talk about, but not that's why it's less worrying about the proximity trade, is the erratic central government's energy policy and its impact on the bill of light. You're obvious, hiding, that's causing a tremendous impact on business results account, that's receiving up to two joint bills or duplicate bills from the previous year. A trade illuminates windows and consumes at the most expensive hours of the day, and you don't mention the problem in an initiative where you want to talk about support proposals and future proposals for the sector. There are many examples in the media that use or verb "sufficient" or "sufficient" to describe or drama : "The bill of light drowns in small businesses", "Light suffocates small trade: paying 600 euros more a month than in 2020", "In order to cope with rising light a dry cleaner must iron 80 more shirts, a bakery sell 1,600 more breads and a restaurant place serve 150 coffees more a month". [[Mr Sanz Arias shows press headlines.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, it's normal for them to put their duties on the Government of the Union, it's their opposition work, but in the same way they must be brave and demanding and put their duties on the central government, on those issues that are seriously damaging our business. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm done. We have tabled an amendment appealing to the validity of the agreement reached in the debate of the state of Autonomy on the subject of trade. And since we've reached an agreement, I hope that agreement will continue to be maintained. We tabled the amendment because we believe that the text of the DEA proposal is somewhat broader than that of this initiative. What the Galician traders are sure to have is that the Galician Union has been and is going to be their main ally, who will continue to work to offer from Galicia a quality trade, a trade that will rely on its digital transformation, but always without losing the essence of the proximity trade. I would like to finish as I began, with thanks to all the professionals in Galicia who are early in the morning, who attend their businesses, who risk their personal heritage, who give life to the center of our cities and our people, and who have proved to be excellent professionals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Sanz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Since the BNG we agree that the coward has aggravated the situation in which the Galician trade was found, leading to the closure of many businesses, which have not endured the consequences of these closures and restrictions by the pandemic, and with the very few help of the Galician Union for a sector that is strategic to our country in economic, employment and social terms. But it seems to us that to mark cowardice as the cause of the situation in which commerce is currently found in Galicia is to ignore reality and, as a result, to fail in the diagnosis and solutions. The Greek trade has been falling free for years as a result of the emergence of online trade, the advances of large commercial areas, the abusive liberalisation of schedules and periods of downsizing and the lack of support by the Government of Wales, which in twelve years of the People's Party's government in the Union of Galicia has quietly assumed the violation of the powers of the Government of the State. The Galician Nationalist Block will support this initiative because these measures are needed immediately to avoid the closure of many businesses that are at the limit. It is necessary to modernise the Welsh commercial fabric to make it more competitive, with training and counselling programmes that reach all the trades in the country, as well as to wager for the digitization of trade with ambitious digital training programmes that reach all the people working in the sector. It is also essential to launch campaigns for young people to buy in local trade; campaigns that arrive to youth with talks in educational centres where they are explained the importance of small trade for the economy and for the Greek society, as well as for the generation of employment. It's not enough to do a publicity campaign, it's important to explain to them the fundamental role of local trade in the dynamisation of their cities and towns. Over the next five years, more than 56,000 people will retire to the German trade and, as a result, much of this business will be closed, since most of them have neither employees nor successors to continue their activity. That is why it is necessary to encourage the generational remittance with specific programmes. But at BNG we are convinced that these measures alone will not stop the commercial shutdown that has been taking place over the years. The fundamental problem is the lack of political courage to deal with large commercial areas and online sales. The current legislates small trade against commercial giants under the excuse of free competition. [[Applause]] One example of this is the lack of regulation of periods of reductions. Law 7/1996, on the management of trade by the State child, established a regulation on promotion activities in the sale, which Royal Decree Law 20/2012 of 2012, of measures to ensure budgetary stability and the promotion of competitiveness -- to which they are so affected by the People's Party -- removed and subjected the passage of absolute liberalization as regards periods, dates, the duration of discounts, as well as the requirements that they have to comply with the products put on sale. Well, nine years after this downside liberalisation, the goal of increasing sales was not achieved in small trade, but in large areas and large firms. Well, the target was not achieved, as long as this measure had been taken to support local trade. If the measure was taken to benefit the large surfaces, the target was achieved with large, surplus. Small trade claims that discounts and discounts continued throughout the year, as is the case today, are causing the sector to go through a very critical time. It is essential that the State Government reschedule these periods of reductions, allowing the Greek Government to regain its competence in this matter in order to recover the purpose for which they were created: to release the accumulated stock at the end of each season. Large surfaces are a threat to small trading in Galicia, and another threat is online commerce. Competition with large online sales platforms, such as Amazon, for small trade, is impossible, but a large platform driven from the Galician Union that hosts all the Greek trade would make the commercial fabric of our country much more competitive. BNG transferred this initiative to the Commission on October 5th. And guess what happened? That the People's Party voted against, one more show of the People's Party's Bet for the German trade. And, look, this graph that I'm showing you is the map of General Trade Directorate budgets in the last 12 years, since 2009. [[Mr. González Iglesias shows a chart.]] And it's true, Mrs. Sáenz, here is Ifevi, the only peak, because the budget of the Directorate-General of Commerce in 2009 almost doubled the current budget. We spend more than 35 million euros on less than 19 million euros. [[Applause]] There has been a loss of commercial tissue since 2009. In 2009, there were 32,690 businesses; currently, in 2020, in particular, there were 26,933. We have 5,757 shops less than twelve years ago. The budget drop is directly proportional to the loss of commercial tissue; just like something has to do with it, we think from BNG. And Mrs. Sanz says it's because budgets are transversal and budgets come from other councils. Well, maybe what they have to do is eliminate the Directorate-General of Commerce -- as they did with the Directorate-General of Industry -- and so there's no name anymore, which would be okay, uh, if your policy is that. Well, the conclusion is that the People's Party doesn't believe in small trade and that's why it doesn't support it. And the evidence is clear. First of all, he was a government of the People's Party, chaired by Mr. Rajoy in 2012, which liberalized the downgrading period; a measure that, in the words of the sector, is drowning them. Second, it's the Government of the People's Party in Galicia that doesn't put a stop to the extent of the large commercial surfaces. In Galicia, the commercial areas per inhabitant quadrupled the average state; we're first in that. From BNG we say that Galicia must be declared a saturated area of large commercial areas and approve a moratorium that prevents the deployment of others, as well as regulates, controls and limits existing ones. Third, it is the Government of the People's Party in Galicia that reduces budgets for the Greek trade year after year since 2009. The budget of the Directorate-General for Trade is going to fall free and drags in that fall the Italian commercial fabric. It is the Government of the People's Party in Galicia that quietly assumes the violation of its own powers by the Government of the State against other administrations, such as the Balearic Islands or the Catalan, which claim all the competences in the field of trade. While these communities do that, Galician Union remains passive, and they continue to close business. And Mrs. Sanz says the Socialist Party must be brave and demand the Central Government. Do the same! You are ruling, they demand the Central Government to transfer the total competences of trade to the autonomous community. [[Applause]] And lastly -- and briefly, since we're going to talk about this this this afternoon to the councillor -- it's the Government of the People's Party in Galicia that summons and solves the aid and subsidies called for to the sector. And as a result, they are forced to go to financial institutions to access them or directly to renounce petitions. Finally, the cause of the loss of business can be very varied, but clearly the lack of support measures by the Greek Government and the reduction of the budget for this sector have much to do with. And, look, I'm a little... it seems to me that, at least, it's an act of hypocrisy going up this rostrum, as we saw the president and how Mrs. Sanz has just done, recognizing the industry's effort to endure the pandemic. Look, that effort wasn't for anything reciprocal on the part of the Galician Union, and we're seeing it in these budgets. [[Applause]] Stop thanking your efforts and please that effort by returning your efforts to your policies! [[Applause]] The People's Party must stop putting the red carpet on the big surfaces and stand on the side of the Greek trade. It is necessary to take measures to enhance the small proximity trade by its dynamizing role in our towns and cities and because it is strategic for our economy and fundamental to job creation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u115	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u116	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they drop the budget in trade by 5 million, paint it as they paint it; they drop the budget in trade, put themselves as they put it. Yeah, put it down. [[Applause]] Game 751A, minus 5 million. Tell them how they like it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then once they try to explain it because there's an extension of Ifevi, that's for note, that's for note! In the middle of economic crisis -- it's incredible -- they go down in trade or budget; yes, they go down, they go down like they do. Yes, yes, it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, the municipalities are the ones that are betting and reinforcing small and medium-sized trade. Yes, yes, the municipalities. And then the state, very well. The state -- this that Mr. Sánchez presides, which does everything fatal, bad, bad -- turns out Galicia received from it, in 2020, 735 million of the Covid Fund, which was to rescue, among others, trade, hospitality and nightlife. [[Murmurs.]] And where are those millions? Where? Where are those millions? Where? We don't know, we don't know, and trade hasn't been rescued. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Moreover, this year 2021 Galicia received 828 million from the Additional Fund and 234 million from the Enterprise Support Fund. What's wrong? That they have to manage it. They have to manage it to help the small and medium-sized trade, and they're not doing it. Plus, they're going to have to return the state's ark to the money that they can't manage. That's what I said in April. They have money from the state government, many, but what's the matter? You have to manage them, and you are incapable. That's what's happening, they're not capable; yes, they're not capable. Moreover, today I also want to give voice to trader associations and federations, because they are outraged at what happened this year of economic crisis with subsidies. They asked me, please, to bring this to the Members and Members of the People's Party. Well, I'll explain to you: line of grants for trader associations, open malls and pitches. Wednesday, October 27th is notified of the granting of grants to trader associations, open malls and outpost squares. The grave thing about this is that, according to the basis of the grants, October 30, 2021 had to have all the activities, campaigns, payrolls and other carried out and paid. By communicating to them three days in advance how much -- three days in advance! -- many associations did not play it, and they decided not to carry out some actions that they had planned; and others have serious problems paying bills, as they survive on the basis of bank credit policies, which make them guarantee those policies or loans by compromising the amount of the loan with the decision to grant the grant. This is the crusader reality, this is the crusader reality of these associations. This is the crusader reality! Friday, October 21st. The extension of the deadline to justify these subsidies, which goes from October 30 to November 15, 2021 -- by the way, after this parliamentary group had said so in the audience of the Director General of Commerce -- was this group that told the Director General of Commerce. But look, there was a trap here. The deadline is extended to present the justification, but activities, payrolls, campaigns and so on must be made and paid to equal parties until 30 October. Here the right thing would be to extend everything until November 15, because in just three days I've been giving you the count until they give you enough time for the entire administrative procedure. What can't happen is that Mr Feijóo's government's slowness in granting subsidies will soon be paid by traders' associations, open malls and squares. This is a real shame, it's a shame what's going on with the federations and trade associations. And this is in full economic crisis. That's what the People's Party helps traders do, doing this. I wonder, does it manage the General Directorate of Commerce? Are you doing something? Is Mr. Feijóo's government doing anything for real commerce? Is that what trade matters to you? I don't think he cares about anything. More management and planning for Mr. Feijó's government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do more management and planning. The trade sector was not a priority for the Galician Union either before or after the coronovirus pandemic, not before or after. That's what we've been saying for months, and today, with the facts reported here -- I'm saying -- 5 million less in the trade game and no planning in the grants for the associations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u117	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u118	...and trader federations. With all that's happening, this is how Mr Feijó's government treats the trade sector. All right, so go on, and in the end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u119	The amendment... do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u120	No, we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u121	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u122	Nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u123	Next proposal is not law. Proposal for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Elena Candia López and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken in relation to the dairy sector by the Council of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u124	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u125	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Candia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fully convinced that what the Greeks and the Greeks expect from us -- that they are, precisely, to whom we must be here today -- is that, in the face of real problems, we put solutions; that we try, in addition to all the groups represented in this House, to strengthen their interests and, above all, to demand that what concerns them and cares for them should be corrected. These were always the objectives of my interventions in the time that I have been in this Parliament during the last few sessions, and I remind them again because they are unresolved: the uncertainty of primary aluminium workers, the uncertainty of Vesta workers and today, particularly the gain and the gain, the workers of a very important sector in our community, very important in my province and very important in our country. Today I intend to join the demands that we heard in the streets of a sector in the past that we also remember and identify as essential in the pandemic, from my point of view insufficiently, and that today I claim it here. These days we heard in the streets that "if the field for, the city doesn't eat," and it's certainly sad that there has to be a pandemic or a crisis for us to realize, but that's it. The importance of the primary sector, the importance, in this case, of the dairy sector -- which is what is at the heart of today's proposal -- is key; we all know that, but the numbers also refer to us. We are Spain's main producer. Galicia is the main milk producer. It's true that the number of farms has decreased, but it's no less true that they produce more and they produce better. Galicia accounts for about half of Spain's production of 40 %, but it is the tenth producing region of Europe. Since 2001 we have increased more than a million tons in production. For example, since 2015, about 2,589,000 has been nearly 2,900,000. The average price of milk has also increased, I think, insufficiently, but certainly increased. We could give an average price in 2015 of 0.28, which reached 0.32 in 2020. "We're going to take small steps and in the right direction," -- they're not my words, it was an interview that gave a donor to a media medium the past few days in concentration in front of the Lugo Government Subdelegation -- "but the economic situation we're living is choking at us." He gave numbers, and an operation that paid for light a few months ago, or a year ago, 400 euros, went on to multiply it by 3, and paid 1,200 -- he taught it. But if you see figures, it's not only the light that went up -- it was explained in the full past when I was also defending the jobs of the electro-intensive companies -- it went up the barley, it rose the thinking of the milk cow, it went up the fuel...; ultimately they will agree with me that the diagnosis is that and that to maintain the levels of profitability the price of milk has to rise. The German Government has a clear commitment to the sector. He always says to our advisor that the best way to work is to teach a plan, to develop a plan that makes a good diagnosis, to be in line with the sector and to mark us where we want to go. What is the strategy or main objective of the dairy dynamisation strategy? For we can achieve a balanced relationship between farmers, industry and distribution, so that this value generated is shared in a balanced way; that we can consolidate Galicia as one of Europe's main dairy regions, with a high level of competitiveness, sustainability, capacity and resilience. But concrete strategy measures. We need to increase the territorial base for logging and we need to address an ambitious legislative reform, and that, as you know, has already been done, and in order to achieve this objective there are clear instruments: the farmers' polygons, the partial restructuring processes and the management of uses, especially in those areas of high milk production. We must continue with our support. We were listening these days to the amount, which exceeds 76 million euros, in aids that are certainly highly valued by our livestock and livestock, those that support improvement plans and those that also support the incorporation of young people and girls into farming or the installation of small farms. But I insist that this balanced relationship must be strengthened and the negotiating position on the weakest, most certainly, farmers and farmers must be strengthened. We're in decisive times right now. The strategy of the dairy sector to reinforce this balanced situation has put in place an instrument, which is the "milk account", which allows the farmer to draw figures -- his operating account -- and also the cost of producing each liter of milk. We must strengthen this instrument so that it is validated by the administrations, so that the law of the food chain is complied with and, as I said, that it strengthens its position. But we also have to create the Dairy Sector Observatory, which is very important. We have to raise awareness of the end consumer -- probably not too much in the previous initiative, about trade, but also about this. The final consumer needs to know that when he buys a liter of Italian milk, he buys a milk that meets the highest international standards of quality, animal welfare and food safety. Gentlemen who have to be heard, ladies and gentlemen, more than ever, and protected from the hives of Madrid's "Ministry of Intransition", which one day tells them one thing and the next day the opposite, and to which even the Socialist Party and the forces here in this Parliament are usually criticized. [[Applause]] Here I have to launch a reminder and put into force the attitude of a conchler. A little while ago, a fellow quoted the Town Hall of Walls, and I'm going to quote him here today. A proposal was debated to protect the wolf's livestock -- something that is still, more than ever, necessary -- and the mayor, who doesn't have an absolute majority, lost a vote. He didn't like it, even though he was at the next point, he went back. But he had a conch -- which I'm going to remember here today, Cristina Franco Pardo-- that he kept his vote; he kept his abstention and was consistent. No doubt consumers and Greeks also look at us, and attitudes and coherences like Cristina Franco's are very important. [[Applause]] That said, I am voting on an initiative which defends five points. We try to change the Food Chain Law if Article 12.3. is shielded. We have not had the support of the Socialist Party, but in this case we are still in time because the goal can be conquered from other ways. That would be the right moment, but it couldn't be. We also want to urge the Galician Union to push awareness campaigns for -- as it said -- to defend the essential role of the primary sector; to promote these Greek products with the "Galga 100 %" brands or the diversification of the "Pastoreo's Milk"; to support the demand of the territorial base of our owners as a mechanism for reducing food costs and giving priority to the bidding of public agricultural polygons; and to speed up the processing of the constitution of the Galego Milk Observatory, fulfilling the strategy of dynamizing the dairy sector; a proposition that hopes to win the unanimous vote of all representatives in an autonomous community where ten Greek councils produce more than sixty thousand tons of milk per year. Even if we give the names of these municipalities, the Pasteuriza, Lalín, Castro de Rey, Santa Comba, Frade, Sarria, Arzua, Cospeito and Mesía, and if they are joined by production of Guntín and Pol, the sum of the production of these twelve municipalities exceeds that of Castile and León, the second autonomous community in milk production. You'll see if this sector isn't important in Galicia. Without more, and appealing to this hard diagnosis, and above all by transferring to all our glovers and jerseys a message of support, closeness and joint work, such as what we are doing, I submit and ask for the support of the rest of the groups representing this House. In this first shift, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u128	"In 2015, three conjunctural factors were embroiled against the health of the Welsh dairy sector and more of the state: an increase in European milk production, after the abolition of milk quotas, the extension of the Russian embargo and an alleged decline in exports to China. This has led to a reduction in prices for producers across Europe, but more accused of the gain, who suffer from over-supply regulation at prices for the purchase of milk under production costs." This text is part of the introduction of the document called "Lacteo Accord", which is offered from Madrid to the already abandoned producers, who endured a pulse with industry, distribution and single administration -- Moncloa-San Caetano -- of the People's Party. We're at the end of September 2015. Since August, Galicia had attended unwatched mobilizations, new and determined people had been marking the pattern, tractors were paralyzing cities, citizenship had historically endured a widespread sympathy for that human and mechanical tide and supported the fair demands of a sector that, with unitary decision-making and management of new technologies -- mobile telephony and Internet -- would challenge and plan logistically actions here and there sharing complaints, circles and protests between industry and distribution. And I repeat: citizenship in general continued to be careful about the process and gave good cause for the inconveniences it suffered. In-depth solidarity. In the meantime, the People's Party's Union, apparently quiet and unsatisfied, has not moved a finger to join the protagonists and promote a possible agreement, an understanding necessary to get out of the crisis. Below, the fox minaba, the mobilisation roofs in a continued discrediting work of agricultural trade union organizations. One, climbed into a tractor, megaphone in hand, shouted at the politicians; others, at the assemblies, with their hands covering their mouth cowardlyly, threw up an 'outside!', out of politics!"in order to blow up the unit of mobilization. All of them came from the same vault, all of them!, and they had the same intention: to desist agricultural trade unionism because industry and distribution -- small -- had no harm in their profits. These, industry and distribution, they had and have stopped and sunk in Moncloa and San Caetano. And it went well, the mobilization ended as the rosary of the dawn, and the palladins of the new structures representative of the ganders and gons were duly rewarded. Well rewarded! And coloured color, signed milk accord. It's a talk, because signing, signing, were told the associations, producer organizations and unions that did so, but the discouragement and impotence -- the pipes turned into snakes for themselves -- they did it, and the mobilization stopped. And here we are, six years later, with a livestock sector that has been divided more than ever and with a tougher problem, if it still fits! And they didn't wait this time, Mrs. Candia, no. This time you took the front and through that megaphone, now made viral video, started with the fakes included in the proposals according to this LNP. Because it is false that the Milky Account is the mechanism that has been used to establish production costs; neither has credibility nor is it reliable. Because the PP in the Government did nothing to intercede between the links of the chain, in twelve years he did not call the Table of Milk, he kept meetings separately, yes, but no one knows what they're talking about. Because they continue to replace agricultural trade unions by dairy producers' organizations, to -- say -- strengthen the negotiating capacity of our producers -- go, go!-- and because suddenly they come to the agreement to promote awareness campaigns directed at the consumer about the importance of the livestock on their way to eternal glory, as food supplier of quality and blah, blah... because they also suddenly want this Parliament's support to promote Greek dairy products, focusing on food security and the animal welfare of our farms, all that in the hands of foreign capital. Wonderful panorama! In a positive, always! Look forward, towards the abyss...! Because we're going to the abyss. Do you remember that of the "milk group indispensable for an added value" to which they opposed? With the Italian capital! It was on the table, everything agreed to be signed, but it couldn't be, the distribution didn't agree; it couldn't be, it wouldn't be that I put conditions on the sacrosanct distribution, which uses milk as a claim product, and which doesn't allow the only measure the market has to work. Abundance makes them cheap; and if they go up production costs, they have to be transferred to the final cost, but you don't know anything about it. And, of course, to continue in the task undertaken in 2008 and continued in these twelve years of frenetic work... because you worked very hard from 2009 to 2021, using the Land Bank, supported the territorial base demand and facilitated that palpable support so that "our livestock and livestock do not spend so much on concentrates and forage from outside." Or wasn't it? Or was it a bank of lands that reformed in 2011 to put on a jersey and leave it so useless? Or were twelve years of complicit silence, injecting money into industry and distribution, and while gaining it, with consolation grants to swallow the devil slowly? The state's best milk in quality and quantity, yes, the lowest prices, the harassment of the boar, and the story of the wolf. Because the wolf's a story in his mouth; the wolf's a great story in his mouth, as long as they don't do anything for the gain, while they don't contemplate the loss of profit, while all that we've talked about up to satiety and that you don't understand... because now they come well, the problems are from Madrid, since Mr. Rajoy left. They certainly used these twelve years as a well-deserved rest after the tremendous effort with that of the Bipartite, and now they are sleepy. I guess they start again, again and again, a new "Chinese account" with the land recovery law. And with that new energy, they also ask us for support for the constitution of the Galego Milky Way Observatory. In addition to malicious, out of memory. Do you remember who put it on? Remember what it was for? Those of us who did brokerage, approved contracts and the Milk Bureau were going to serve and serve us to calculate the objective production costs. Do you believe it? It was already created! He lived from 2006 to 2011! And they stop publishing the economic technical results of the dairy farms in 2012! What are they talking about? Do they suffer from intentional amnesia? It's pure health! Pure quality bad health! Yours is a guard trial, really. There is only one useful and solid point in this LNP: they recovered the Government in Madrid; that is, they used the milk conflict to shake their fleas and beat Sánchez. And so, with that motivation of the supreme company, of recovering the lost empire, it went out a round point; with it fulfilling two purposes. One: to wear out the so-called government against nature -- which is a government against nature, according to you -- and another: to justify sleep asleep since that glorious 2009. The other purpose is going, yes, to destroy or denaturalize the union representation of the gangsters and the gangsters. Here they work again for industry and distribution. Then, in the elections, where they get these dubious majority, there's enough money, there's enough money for campaigns and willful purchases. Yes, it's true, you have to say it here, you have to say it here, and you have to say it from the countryside! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u129	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u130	You have to say it here, from the countryside! We know what we're talking about. From rural to rural! Seventy years of suffering from your policies endorse the words I'm saying! What the hell! Man, of course it is! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, how it hurts! Because it will be. Look... they're lost because the union unit will resist, the unions will resist, because it's logical. [[Murmurs.]] Sure, yes, sir, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u131	Silence! Silence! Quiet, please! I've stopped timing. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u132	Fuck! In this discussion forum, from the BNG we want to make a call to the sector unit, with minimums to be conquered, under the premise that if production costs rise -- and this nobody discusses it -- you should raise the final price and reverse at least 60% of the rise on the first link: production. And there's no more to say. Defending them, they defend the country, the future of rural life and its viability. "In the best development of the strategy of dynamizing the Galician dairy sector, a firm commitment to consolidate the balanced relationship" -- balanced -- "between farmers, industry and distribution." That's what the milk strategy says. This is overwhelming. Who wears sticks? Do you know who he reminds me of? And I know he'll say the romantic: to his grandmother. Yes, but I lived the vertical union, and this is the exact definition of the fascist vertical union! That's what you propose in the milk strategy! Man, please! [[Applause]] Please! Yes, yes; it's true what I'm saying. [[Murmurs.]] Look, look, look, look, "a balanced relationship between...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u133	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u134	...traders, industry and distribution." The family, the municipality and the union, this was the representation of or-ga-ni-ca democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u135	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u136	Anyway, if you want two simple, quick and clear points, they have our amendment. Our amendment has already been passed in some county with your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u137	Thank you, Mr. Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u138	Silence! You'll have the turn that suits you. Interventions are... and then the counterreplication will come. That's every member's right. I'm not going in on it. Interventions can be... Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u139	Thank you, President. The People's Party today presents an initiative for the situation that is experiencing the dairy farms in our country. A situation arising from the structural problems generated during the thirty-three of the 40 years of right-wing government since the adoption of the Autonomy Statute. But now it turns out that in the PP nothing has to do with this situation, and they focus on the problems of the state government sector on an initiative that, by the way, amends the entire politics of its party in the Union for decades, Mrs Candia. From the PSdEG we ask them to stop dwindling and take action within the competences of the German Government to address the problems of our owners. PP's gentlemen, they're not part of the problem as when they give up making policies that fight against the serious deindustrialization process that our country has. We ask them to assume that they are Government, and to assist in the development of our rural primary activities. Regardless of whether there are problems in the implementation of the Food Chain Act -- a law that has been positively modified since Royal Decree 5/2020, which states that the prices agreed in contracts must cover at least the production costs --, the mechanisms for their control are established and are within the competence of AICA and the competent authorities of the autonomous communities, who also have an obligation to develop them. From the Ministry of Agriculture they strengthened the operation of this agency in the budgets of both 2021 and 2022, and while the Government of Greece is unable to demand solutions from the State. With regard to the so-called Milk Account, we socialists positively value it as an aid to producers to calculate their production costs and we know that the Ministry studies can be regarded as an accreditation formula; another thing is that it can be introduced into the Food Chain Law itself. In Galicia the prices that our milk farmers receive are up to three cents below what other communities get, for example, Asturias, and that's not the government's fault, because, as far as I know, Asturias is also part of Spain. So we must look at our home to reverse a situation that makes the yellow gainers the least charge from Spain and Europe for their cattle's milk. In this month of March, your group, Mrs Candia, presented here in Parliament an initiative calling on the Galician Union to take the necessary measures to promote the investment of dairy products in products of greater added value. And our group, understanding that this is one of the major problems in our sector, has tabled an amendment to demand that all support measures to the industries to which they guarantee fair contracts for their producers have been conditional. Do you know what the People's Party did, being aware of what a part of our country's industry was doing in negotiating contracts with our producers? He did not accept the amendment, and he refused to lay down measures to link the aid offered by our administration to the condition that industries comply with the Prison Law and pay producers above production costs. Are they credible, Mrs Candia, or are they just looking for a headline to blame others for their inability to support our producers and to maintain their commitment to some industry that mistreats our owners? The PP, just eight months ago, defended that there was an increase in the profitability of our livestock and livestock by 7%; some claims that agricultural organizations had put their hands to the head, because these data are not because dairy farms have a higher yield of their production, are unique and exclusively because they produce more milk and, as is easily understandable, the highest production, the highest billing, but not because of that greater profit by litre produced. The agribusiness with their governments, Mrs. Candia, is declining. Over the past five years it has grown only 0.6 % annually and has lost 6 % of its workers, with numerous farms in difficulty due to the prices received and limitations on available land. The Greek Government is committed to generating legislation, but it serves little if it does not comply, doing what they do, drawing up plans without targets with a single propaganda rush. There is a need for an active policy of structures and land management to support the increase in the territorial base of farms in respect of land abandonment and the limitation of eucalyptus plantations on agricultural land. After decades of the right-wing Government, more than two-thirds of our territory is in a state of abandonment, we have less than 25% of our useful agricultural land, while Spain has twice as much, and every year in Galicia, about six hundred farms are closed. They're kind of like taking their heads off. We have whole regions dismantled, and in the meantime, more than fourteen million euros are invested in creating "the Gaiás of the Rural Mirror" in Sergude. There is neither a real commitment nor a definite objective to promote political measures that will make Galicia occupy its rightful place in the dairy sector. The proof of this is the fact that it reaches the end of subcontracting by the Rural Middle Council the definition of the strategic lines and the priorities of the Galician Union for the dairy sector. Galicia received large amounts of money from the European Union. They managed about 600 million euros of European RDP funds in the last 12 years, being of the five regions of Spain that received the most. But the dismantling of the instruments of support for the productive agricultural sectors was absolute; from internationally recognized prestigious centres such as the Mabegondo Agricultural Research Centre (CIM) or the Lourizán Faba Interpretation Centre (CIF) -- they report themselves -- going through abandoned agricultural training centres or the farm extension network, which now say they will recover. Galicia has a weight in the dairy industry which is not equal to its weight in the producer sector. Of the ten main milk groups in Spain there are only four with presence in Galicia: Lactalis, Capsa, TGT and Lactogal. Other major Spanish groups lack factories in Galicia, such as Danone, the Pascual Group, García Bacero Group, etc. To find the first German capital industry, you have to go to the ranking 16th place, where you can find Leite Río, Mrs. Candia. That stage of weakness in the dairy industry reflects the fact that more than 48 % of the milk produced in Galicia is going out unprocessed. The milk processed in Galicia, in addition, is dedicated to its packaging as liquid milk, which generally brings lower added value than its transformation into other dairy products. A clarification example is how the two lactalis factories in Galicia are exclusively devoted to the milk packaging, when the same group in Spain devotes 50 % of their milk to the beverage packaging and the other 50 % to dairy products of the highest added value, such as cheeses, yogurts or butter. In global figures, in Spain, only 32% of milk is packed, while another identical percentage of 32% is devoted to cheese. The German percentage for cheese is only 15% of milk. If we analyze the milk destined in the community for designations of origin, the percentage is only 1.8 %, with an evolution that is also negative, because over the last decade, five thousand nine hundred tons of cheese with designation of origin have been produced in 2010 to five thousand four hundred in the 2018 data. In this context, the Greek Government presents its 2020-2025 Strategic Plan with 125 measures, and in it they say that they want to turn 51% of milk to 75% in the coming years, and they say that to achieve it they will support all industrial projects that want to be developed in Galicia. They say they want to bet on support for research, training and advice on agriculture, but the reality is that they've been leaving education and public research for 12 years. They're trying to strengthen the services of the 68 comarcal agricultural offices, which say they're going to complete with a mobile office for small municipalities, but the reality is they've been dismantled. First of all, agricultural organizations -- with all the reason in the world, by the way -- say that the strategic plan for the milk sector that presented the Galician Union will be credible if the measures it envisages are accompanied by the necessary budgetary tools to carry them out. As the Secretary-General of Agricultural Unions himself said, the mere statement of expectations is not enough, because if the measures always apply, the results will always be achieved. It's funny that the plan didn't tell the so-called agricultural organizations, as they themselves denounced, because, after a year of work, the Rural Council came to some conclusions that the organizations didn't know, Mrs. Candia. These organizations helped define the problems, but they didn't allow them to participate in the proposals to solve them, and unfortunately they say that this document does not come up with any new measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I ask your Government to, apart from calling for others to do their job so that they can cover the costs of production, put measures to really improve the territorial base of farms, push back the partial mergers, which have paralyzed them, boost training and public research, which have dismantled them, enhance cooperativeism and make industries transform their raw material into higher-cost products, and put this in addition as a condition to help them. I mean, in the end, what they have to do is political and really be the engine that moves the agricultural sector and not just see what others do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u140	Thank you, Mr. Seco García. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, the author of the non-law motion, Mrs. Candia López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u141	Mr. Rivas, I think your group had to go and consider changing it from the rural spokesperson, because this level of intensity and aggressiveness that you put in the intervention will affect your health. You said you were seventy years old and, even though you don't look like them, tranquility is vital to your quality of life. Don't get angry, don't get angry. You quoted my grandmother, and you don't know what I appreciate. You don't know what I appreciate, because I would like you to be present at this plenary meeting by chance today. Look, look. See? [[Mrs. Candia López shows Mr. Rivas Cruz a picture.]] He was carrying milk, four kilometers with this. This is the rural you keep seeing. You're still there. And look, we're in this countryside today. Carmen, from the Neifra Glandery, in Lindin, this morning, mugging, applying a robot. These are words and photos, but this is a reality. This is not the merit of the People's Party, nor of the Socialist Party, and much less of the Galego Nationalist Block; it is the merit of the Greeks and the Greeks, and of the gangsters, who are great professionals. That's the reality. [[Applause]] The one from the wolf reached my soul because, if we weren't talking about serious things, I would tell you that probably any day it brings a proposal in which the fault that in the story of Red Carapuccina the wolf was the bad one from the People's Party. Because every day he's protecting animals, like the wolf, against animals like our cows. Oh, my God! In Galicia! that these days we saw in Vila de Cruces a whole town saving a cow that fell into the river, who slept with it. Those are our Greeks, that's the sensitivity they have in our Galicia. They don't know Galicia. [[Applause]] And when the result doesn't like it, it says "twice most," that it does have a crime, gentlemen. When he rules the PP, he doesn't win, he rattles, he has to have an absolute majority. And when you're co-governing, and I'm setting the example of Muras... because that's also our responsibility: to take out their face, because they already know that in showman and performance, you move well, but then, when they hit the button and decide on the destination of public resources that are likely to be used alternatively and make decisions, because they make stunts like those of Muras. [[Applause]] By the way, that's very little democratic, going back to a point of order when it's over. That's you, and look at me as I have character, but I tell you without being angry, because when we talk about serious things and reason comes to us, there's no need to shout, they hear us much better talking slowly and quietly. [[Applause]] He failed to say what proposals you had, because the Milky Way Observatory likes it, alas! But it was our thing; the Land Bank likes it, but alas! He didn't like it because he adapted or improved... and he didn't like it. Of course, she went to the Vertical Union and didn't get her ten minutes when she had to make decisions about what she had to vote on. Mr. Seco, I thank you very much for your tone, and it always shows me a true respect for the interventions. But I forgot to tell you something. The law of the food chain -- which I think was a historical milestone for our farmers and livestock -- signed it, as Mr. Rivas would say, "M point Rajoy." That might be more like us or less like us, but it was in 2013. Now a reform has been proposed, which we understand is insufficient. [[Strong murmurers.]] So, by focusing on what we vote here today, do you agree to strengthen the negotiating position of our owners and urge that the Milk Account -- or, if you don't like it, another that validates it -- can it be an instrument that can be used in the negotiation?, yes or no? Do you agree with these awareness campaigns? Because, gentlemen, when you do them, it's investment; and when you do the others, it's propaganda. To promote that our moneywinners produce one of the best milks in the world isn't for me, believe me or not, propaganda, it's a reality and it's an act of justice. And that is what we are going to put to the vote. Do you agree and support strengthening the expansion of the territorial base to affect the reduction of production costs? Do you agree on all that? Well, look, if you agree, you vote for it; and if you do not agree, you vote for it. But anyway, I would appreciate it if they could explain it. Because I think that in all this, once I've heard them -- even though they didn't talk much -- they coincide in the diagnosis. And I believe that the farms and landowners of Galicia and Spain, in the autonomous communities that govern the People's Party and in which they do not, are at present at a difficult time. And even if it's all for that, and as far as your work is concerned, they deserve a little seriousness in our interventions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been completed, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u143	We started by voting for G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela. The amendment of the G.P. of Galician Socialists is accepted -- which is a self-amendment, of course -- and one of the Galician Nationalist Block. And the amendment of G.P. Popular is not accepted. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela and two other Members, on the actions that must be carried out by the Galician Union to fight urgently against gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u144	We now vote for G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. There's a transaction proposal. [[Mrs. García Vidal asks for the floor.]] Yeah? What do you want the word for, Mrs. Garcia? Give your voice to the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u145	Thank you, President. In order to reach an agreement, we would like to vote in favour of point 2 and point 3 and that is why I call for a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u146	Do you accept a point-by-point vote? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They do not accept the vote by separating those points. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the actions to be taken by Junta de Galicia, in collaboration with the municipalities, on information services and attention to women in situations of violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u147	We now vote for G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and the Mercedes Complaints Zas. There's an amendment by the People's G.P. of Galicia, which has not been accepted. Voting of the non-law proposition by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the management to be carried out by the Galician Union for the protection of the Deo's brañas, along the municipalities of Aranga, Oza-Cesuras and Curtis, and their inclusion in the Natura Network. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u148	We now vote for G.P. Popular of Galicia at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago. G.P.'s amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block is not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members, on the need to open a residential centre for the care of minors in a situation of social difficulty and with problems of conduct. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u149	We are now voting on the initiative of Mrs Maria Leticia Gallego of G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in the field of internal trade. The amendment of the People's G.P. of Galicia is not accepted and a three-point separate vote is requested. So we are voting first of all on points 2, 3 and 4 of the proposal. Voting of points 2, 3 and 4 of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in the field of internal trade. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These three points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u150	And now we are voting on point number one. Voting of point 1 of the Non-Law Proposal of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in the field of internal trade. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u151	And finally, we voted for G.P. Popular of Galicia at the initiative of Mrs Maria Elena Candia. I understand that the amendment of the G.P. to the Nationalist Block in Galicia is not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Elena Candia López and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the dairy sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 37; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u152	The votes of the non-law proposals have been put to an end here. And we continue with the agenda, with the question mark. Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the German Government on the beef sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u153	Mr. Seco García has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, we have just talked about the situation in the Greek dairy sector, with producers who are in a difficult situation, but we must not forget an area that is going through much worse than the dairy sector. We're talking about the meat sector, which is launching an emergency message in the face of the possibility of the disappearance of many farms and which does not seem to silence that message in the German Government. In the last seventeen years, the price that the yellow gloves receive for the meat they produce has increased by only 12 %. On the other hand, during that period the CPI experienced an increase of 33 % and the production costs of the holdings increased by 38 %. This cocktail is putting at high risk the economic viability of farms that not only produce high-quality, low-quality meat parameters of animal welfare but also play an indispensable role from the point of view of land management, the fight against the abandonment of rural areas and forest fires. Among the rising thoughts, fertilizers and energy, producing one kilogram of meat is today between 50 cents and one euro more expensive than before the cod, depending on the conditions of each holding. And, on the other hand, the drop in landfills in slaughterhouses is a negative differential in the environment of forty cents with regard to the precarious situation. It is a totally unbearable and unsustainable context for traditional Greek gloveries. Counselor, the sector is sending a SOS and since the Galician Union they're following up on their propaganda party. The future of nothing more and nothing less than 11,000 traditional lands throughout Galicia is at stake, small farms located in the more demographically sensitive areas and with greater problems of aging and depopulation; and with them, the future of our rural society. Each of these farms is now entering 200 euros less than before the pandemic for every calf they sell, which is a clear violation of the law of the current food chain, which establishes -- as we said earlier -- that the prices agreed in contracts must cover at least the costs of production. And the mechanisms for their control are established and fall within the competence of both the AICA and the competent authorities of the autonomous communities. According to a study produced by an agricultural organization, producing a kilogram of meat costs around €5.50/kilo/channel, while liquidations in no case exceed 4.80. The sector needs to put in place without delay a public price observatory in order to be able to have clear references, as well as to promote contracts approved at a specified price and above these costs. The meat sector needs to have the Galician Union reactivate in an exceptional way a line of aid that was behind the vault, a line that we said was clearly insufficient but helped to offset partly the losses of farms in the first year of the pandemic. Because if the pandemic hit a sector that had gone off with previous problems, the passivity of its Government, Mr González, can end the closure of many farms by not putting all the resources needed to save a strategic sector for all of Galicia. Agricultural organizations valued a drop in income in the sector of some 18 million euros before the start of the pandemic. And when we talk about this sector, we refer globally to 22,000 farms, of which 11,000 -- as I said before -- are professional and generate about 200,000 returns. If we continue to lose part of the 20,000 professional jobs offered by this sector -- 20,000 jobs!, then we are told by certain industries -- between producers, slaughterhouses, decommissioning rooms and veterinarians, it will bring with it, in addition to a terrible economic effect, also a social, environmental and territorial effect in that Galicia which depends on meat holdings as an essential basis against abandonment by being much of these farms in the territory of the Galician mountain. The long crisis of the coward caused a significant fall in meat consumption, resulting from the closures in the restoration channels, the fall in tourism and changes in certain areas of consumption. The temporary closures of the markets and fairs made all the weight fall on the food chains, which resulted in a sharp drop in the prices paid to the producers while consumers did not see that decrease in the shopping basket. The Galician Union must monitor and put on instruments to make effective compliance with the Food Chain Law in all food sectors and, of course, also in the different sectors of the meat to ensure the survival of our owners, who are charging under these costs -- having to spend their savings or turn to bank loans that in many cases cannot support --. It is necessary to set up a price observatory in order to stabilize markets, and the Administration must ensure, as stated above, that contracts are complied with and prices approved at the negotiating tables. The Galician Union should now complement the insufficient direct aid to the sector it has given on its day with the PDR that has allowed Europe, and of those that have not used the total allowable count for this sector, which was about 24 million euros and of which it only used about 7 million euros. The rest derived it from other sectors that could have been covered with Igape funds. And these aids are clearly insufficient. The Greek administration could now supplement this amount with its own funds and study in the next RDP how to put formulas to help this important sector more. The strategy of the Galician Union, in our opinion, must be based on an extensive quality glove, by encouraging public research with milk -- as we said earlier -- to increase the quality of our product and also its food, by modernizing the packaging channels and regardless of consumer products, using the means of negotiation to ensure the presence of our meat in the food chains of our territory and to wager for the expansion of the foreign market with high quality products under the stamps that guarantee certification in all those possible materials: health, environment and others. They must put in place a reference agricultural range which works professionally and which allows to refer to their prices the contracts necessary to comply with the Prison Law. Mr. González Vázquez, they can't stand behind so many families in Galicia. We have been presenting several initiatives for months to support this sector, and you remain behind. They only have as an answer the supposed development of a strategic plan for meat, but the sector can no longer wait for that plan. By all means, Counsellor González Vázquez, I ask you, why do they not urgently call for an exceptional aid line for the continuation of the beef beef sector? They could do it and we've asked them on two occasions, and also this time in the amendments we tabled to the budgets. Why don't they put in place a specific two-dimensional plan for beef cattle holdings within the framework of the new extension period of rural development aid from 2023 to 2027? I think it is very necessary to come precisely to be able to give greater dimension to these holdings. Why don't they implement with haste a digital cattle range as a tool that gives transparency to the sale of the cattle, which we know is another of your problems? Why not create without delay a price observatory for the calculation of production costs appropriate to Galicia's productive reality? These are questions we ask ourselves and we want to ask him. And, please -- since the topic was out earlier --, they ask the Environment Council to control wildlife populations urgently, in areas where the reached level threatens extensive gain, with the establishment of a new wolf management plan for Galicia fruit, as we say many times, of a consensus between wolf-defense associations, representatives of agricultural organizations and representatives of the veterinary sector, updating population censuses and developing a new map of wolf presence in Galicia. It's very nice to talk about the state, but they do their duties, which they forgot during the twelve years of government that they have been ruling with Nuñez Feijóo. In calling for such aid for the prevention and compensation of damage to the so-called wild fauna, they make the budget share have a proper allocation according to a fair valuation that takes into account the market price and loss of profits, and the agile processing and perception of aid. I believe that these are measures that you must put in place precisely by speaking to the State in order to develop the new planning that emerges after the new inclusion of the wolf as a protected species. They have in their hand the choice to take action against that message of SOS that is spreading the sector or following with cross arms watching as it sinks into an essential sector for Galicia and with the greatest risk of aging and abandonment. By all means, Mr. Counsellor, I would like, after so many initiatives, to ask you about the measures you will take to address the serious crisis in the Galician meat sector. And you don't just talk to me about a strategic plan, as they do absolutely on every subject. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The truth is, when I was preparing this interpellation and my appearance, and I read your statements, Mr. Seco, and those of your fellows, I did find something we could agree with. Of course, we agree with the importance of the meat sector -- specifically the beef cow -- for the territorial balance of our community. It represents about 33 % of the value of the final agricultural production. In the case of beef beef, Galicia is the third largest producer region in the state, with more than 14 % of total national production. We're also referents, ladies and gentlemen -- and this is not what you say, but I say --, as far as quality beef is concerned. With the protected geographical indication Tenreira Galicia -- cow and ox -- bill more than 100 million euros and is the main indication of meat quality in Spain. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, it is data for which it is worth promoting the consumption of Greek meat and not the contrary. And although I'm the defendant, this leads me, Mr. Seco, to ask you a first question and all the members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. Do you agree with the statement made by Minister Garzón about the need to reduce meat consumption? Do you agree? I would ask you in your next intervention here, Mr. Seco, to take advantage of these statements to disallow publicly. [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, that's what concerns our gloves and geese. And to be able to talk about what concerns our gloves and gloves, Mr. Seco, we have to talk to them, don't touch them. I was gathered yesterday with 120 beef cattle farmers in Montederramo, an area in which we can especially proudly affirm that we have an extraordinary beef beef herd, with young people, people who do that large gain, people who make the supreme meat of Tenreira Gaga, with an extraordinary quality, and people to listen to so that we can also collaborate with them in the development of their sector. And you -- and I'm going to ask your questions -- talk to me about your interpellation -- in two questions -- about direct help. Do you think that's what our beef cattlemen are asking for? Are you helping directly? Look, ladies and gentlemen, what they ask for -- and we talk to them to know -- is that they recognize their role in the custody of the territory; what they ask is that they recognize the sustainable character and the animal welfare they have in their farms; what they ask is that they recognize the role they have in avoiding the depopulation of the countryside, in order to avoid abandonment and in order to avoid forest fires; what they ask, gentlemen, is that they value their product. And that's the question we had to be here discussing: how we all work to value a product as extraordinary as Greek meat. And what they're asking, too, Mr. Seco -- miss me, in addition, to talk about this here -- it's clearly the law of the food chain -- or for the prohibition to be met too -- to prevent the sale from losing. Although this is a question I'm going to talk about later in the Bloc interrogation -- since today I'm double-crossed -- I'm going to talk about what the prison law and the work it's doing to the Greek Government so that the ban on sales to losses, Mr. Seco -- you know it well -- it's not wet paper. We ask the Central Government to be brave in regulating the ban on loss of sales. But, look, the key to all this -- and yes, of course, I'm going to talk about strategies towards the future in the medium and long term, although also in the short term -- is planning to achieve that goal of valuing the product of our owners. For you the solution -- they're in that lately -- they're almost always for direct help. They've already done it in the vineyard stone. Let's get some help with baseless injections that incinerate and dissipate like a balloon in a sector. But the Junta plans, and that's why, as we've already done in the milk sector strategy, by the way -- and they have read it, sure, but they also read it from our livestock and livestock and they can ask their opinion -- we're working on the dynamizing strategy of the Galician meat sector. Another strategy, along with milk and wine, is made from the sector to the sector. For just two months now, we've been meeting with livestock, industry representatives, distribution chains and agricultural associations and professional organizations to start this process -- more than 50 participants --. I encourage parliamentary groups that also participate in the development of these strategies, to improve or to try to improve the value chain. These agents and not us, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones who really know what situation the sector is in, what weaknesses are and what strengths are. And they are the ones who give us the needs that we can meet from the German Government, an effort in which, in addition, we will invest to value, as we always do, the quality of our products. Galicia is food quality, now and always. At this point, Mr Seco, I would like to be the most powerful one to allow me and to move the total disapproval of the small sensitivity that the central government has shown to the situation of the livestock sector in the primary sector in general. I mean, as you know, the legislative process of the Food Chain Law. I do not want to fail to point out the dissatisfaction on the part of the Union with regard to the neglect, abandonment and indifference of the State Government. And I won't miss the opportunity to ask them, before they see for the political benefit, to see, as the Greek Government does, for the benefit of our livestock and sheep. That said, the meat strategy comes to consolidate the sector and ensure the generational rebound against profitable holdings, to improve the level of transformation of the meat industry and for the generation of value added throughout the chain. And in this line it is essential to bet on sustainable production, which takes account of animal welfare criteria and respectful systems, such as extensive production. By the way, I have to tell you to get into the same bag the whole stock doesn't make much sense. Galicia is -- mainly in the meat and beef sector -- extensive glove. We have to achieve a really profitable meat industry, too, where each and every one of the seals that make up the chain is able to sustain the previous one and generate benefits. And for that we will establish actions aimed at recognizing their work and promoting the properties of the flesh, as well as encouraging them, against those who disqualify meat consumption, meat production. Even so, and without any doubt, we are committed to training to deepen the professionalization of all those involved, as is the case with so many courses that are already taking place related to the improvement of the beef industry or to the efficiency of farm management, further promoting research and innovation. Of course, we are at a stage of study, of dialogue with the sector. But, ladies and gentlemen, all planning and subsequent decisions are preceded by an analysis. Because, in order to be able to make the most appropriate decisions, more conscious and thought solely for the benefit of Galician meat sector, we have to have all the data and information available on the table. In this sense, we believe -- I believe -- in transversal planning, and of course I can't talk about planning in this area without talking about the Law on Recovery of Galician Land, which comes to cover another important area of our farms, such as the territorial base allocation. And I also want to point out, within what we're doing -- although the strategy is not yet underway -- the Galician Pasture Plan. It's EUR 9.5 million to make investments in neighboring mountains in common hands in seventy municipalities of Galicia to reach 2,400 hectares of pastry for our livestock. The area of pasture available to feed the cattle is increased and the cost is avoided due to cereals other than the exploitation -- which determines the rise in the price of raw materials -- is avoided. I would also like to finish this first round by talking about the manifestation of interest to the agri-food sector that this board presented. We ask the gainees to believe, to determine us, that basic territorial need. And we received about a thousand initiatives demanding 21,000 hectares. It's evidence, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia has a future, that this sector is demanding that territorial base. What is the most interesting thing about that demand that we were able to see through the manifestation of interest? Which, of all the requested hectares, 13,200 were geolocalized for gainful productive orientation. This says a lot about the effort we all have to make to give that land, that territorial base, to our farms. I'm done. We work, gentlemen, according to transversal planning, we work for this productive and primary sector in general. We work, as usual, with care, doing rural Galicia. Nothing else, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u157	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Martín Seco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. It would be much more beneficial for the yellow gainers who cared less about Minister Garzón and were more concerned than our meat producers in Galicia charge. Surely they didn't ask you by Minister Garzón about the measures you have to take your Government to try to put mechanisms on the table to comply with the Prison Law. [[Applause]] By the way, it's a law that certainly created the People's Party, but that proposition was indeed wet paper. We just need to talk to agrarian organizations to know that there are important improvements in the development of this change that is under way. Obviously, you haven't done it and you're not enjoying it, but there are very important improvements and now what you need is precisely to establish mechanisms to make it meet and to investigate precisely in places where it's not being met. You're talking about planning. You always talk about planning. When they don't want to do something, they plan. They've been planning the Greek mountain for 40 years. That's right, the forest plan that was approved had absolutely no diagnosis, but they're planning. They do it for the interests of certain people but you're planning; the same as in the milk -- as I explained earlier -- with a plan that they give to agricultural organizations that participate in to capture what the problems of the sector are but that they don't call them to take the appropriate measures precisely to solve what they said. It's a plan that doesn't provide a single new measure. And now we're talking about the strategic plan of the meat they'll be studying. And surely when our children are Members -- or when the children are Members -- you will continue to study the forest, the meat, the milk, or absolutely all the matters, just when they should be acting. You're saying that we don't value the quality of our products. Of course, and not only the quality, of course, of our products -- as I said before -- but also the effect that the gain has on the environment, which is beneficial to the environment. Of course, the PSdeg will put this matter into focus! What you would have to explain is why for so many years of the People's Party's government has fallen so much, absolutely, the commercial balance that Galicia has in its food products. Look, look, look, you're talking about it's not the time to apply direct tips. Obviously, it's not the structural solution that our primary sectors have right now, but we're talking about SOS, a SOS that did, in addition, that you used part of the RDP after the cod to put seven million euros in the sector in direct aid. It wasn't me, it was you, Counselor. But then we already told him that it was completely insufficient and that it used the whole count, because wine cellars could use the forms of loans that Igape can use. But you didn't want to try to save a sector that's in SOS. It's not the structural measure that will give the solution, of course not. The structural measure is that they are paid to the livestock, for the meat they produce, above what it costs them to produce. But this is a measure to try to save a drowning sector, which in 2020 had a billing -- as Galician Agricultural Central said -- 30% less than in 2019. You're all going to make strategic plans, legislative reforms. Now they'll start with others, with mechanisms to do what they do. That's what you really like, a lot of publicity, a lot of photos, a lot of Gaiás and a lot of media advertising to say they're very worried about the sector. But everyone knows that, when you don't want to do anything at all, you announce a plan to let time pass, trying to confuse public opinion. Mr. González Vázquez, the problem of our field is precisely in the lack of definition and guidance of the policies that the public administration must exercise to guide our sector. How can you sell as a success that, after forty years of autonomy, sectors that should be part of the structural core of our economy, such as forest and milk -- that I tell you so many times -- have so little impact on the Greek economy? If we produce, or we have 40% or 50% of Spain's production in these sectors, why do they only contribute 13% or 11% of state income, or employment levels even below this? How can you talk about commitment to rural and combat the abandonment of more than 85% of our territory and then see how those meat farms that are essential in the territorial development of the most depressed areas in Galicia die? You know exactly what I'm telling you when I tell you there's a lack of guidance -- and I've exposed you here on many occasions --. In the 1990s, Galicia dropped 25% in agricultural income and Andalusia doubled this income. I'm not saying Galicia must be Andalusia. We have, of course, another territory. But there was a certain orientation that would lead the productive sectors to increase the economy of their autonomy, and we just dedicated ourselves to abandoning all our productive sectors. I repeat to you that we need a specific plan for the size of beef cattle holdings within the framework of the period of rural development aid. I don't know if they're going to take action in that way, because you ask me but you don't answer anything at all. Are they going to start that digital strip that much of what you talk about? Will they launch the price observatory to refer to the sector and drive approved contracts at specified prices? The sector needs courage, Counselor, not so much announcement, not so much meeting to sell ads. The future isn't in direct aid, but right now we must not let some farms that structure our territory die and they're sending a SOS message that goes far beyond a strategic plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u159	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Close the interrogation, Counsellor of the Rural Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We note that Mr. Seco is not interested in disauthorizing what Minister Garzón said. It's okay, Mr. Seco. Look, when you tell me that you're going to wait for our children to be deputies for the strategies... well, I'm just going to quote the 2021 Forest Plan -- 40 over the last three years -- the strategy of the dairy sector, the strategy of dynamizing wine regions and now also the strategy of the meat sector. If there's any difficulty or ear that we could criticize, it's just that we probably had to start with something in advance. Mr. Seco, governing is planning. I would like to have a debate where we went beyond saying that I want to take over the area of Galician beef, because that can put us in a situation even a little tense. And you know perfectly well that's not the goal. I don't know what you have to plan, I don't know if you have to put on your shoes or socks first. Of course, we try to be ordered and try to follow a plan to achieve our goals. And, in that sense, the process of dialogue in which we find ourselves in the development of the strategy of the meat sector in Galicia is absolutely necessary. I also tell you that it was done the same with the Law of Recovery of the Land of Galicia, and I would like to point out that the other day, at a forum of debate I had, because there were people who made it manifest that, by entering into the operation of that legislation, there should be no hurry, but they should be able to succeed. And, of course, they weren't people of my party's ideology, but they were totally right. We're going to do our job. Let's make model villages. Yesterday we left a polygon for livestock, for pastizal, precisely in Montederramo -- where, by the way, we also have a pastizal of the Meal Plan --. And that's what we have to do. It'll take more or less time, but we're opening up a path that I'm absolutely sure is necessary for the future development of our primary sector in the short, medium and long term. Of course, in the strategy, we have to count on the sector. I hear your ideas and I say they bring them into the strategy, there's no problem. But we're going to listen to the sector. The strategy will bring you -- of course yes -- the necessary mechanisms. In fact, the digital range -- and you know it -- is in the budgets of the year 2022, but if we have to come here to get rid of everything we do... well, I don't think that's what the livestock want. And I'm going to make one thing clear to everyone who's listening to me: the counselor didn't say they didn't need direct help, the counselor said, talking to 120 livestock -- like before, I've been talking to the milk cow -- who told me that their priority isn't the direct aid, that their priority is the valuation of their product by the way of price. And for that, Mr. Seco, we must be brave in regulating the ban on loss of sales. I'd like to remind you, as I told you, that we're working with the sector, asking where that territorial base wants it and so you want it -- "manifestation of interest" to the Council --. We work with the sector again when, through the Land Recovery Act, we are mobilizing land to give it to those farms. We're not going to come out of this land, we're going to give priority, without any doubt, to our farmers and farmers in the recovery of the land. They're the mechanisms we'll talk about -- sure -- in this legislation and we'll see their interest and their potential. But, look, speaking of direct aids, how much do our winners charge each year in the direct aids of the first and second piar of the CAP? They cover 210 million euros, from which almost half goes to our beef beef cattle, that is, almost 100 million euros. But we are also the autonomous community that first made the advance of the CAP for the year 2021, which now means an injection of 160 million euros. In addition to the seven million euros -- you have transferred -- at a time of maximum urgency, as it was for the coward-19, I also want to transfer to you other direct aids that you are receiving from Galician beef: aid for gainful health defence groups -- more than two million euros -- ; aid for the replacement of additional livestock and compensation -- that add up to almost 300,000 euros -- ; compensation for compulsory sacrifices -- EUR 700,000 -- ; aid for the promotion of indigenous breeds and for the realization of cow livestock poxs for their marketing -- more than 200,000 euros -- ; or subsidy for the insurance premiums of our farmers at 40 percent. I think we're talking, of course, about direct help. I think, actually -- and we should be talking about this -- there's a situation where the price isn't covering production costs. We have to work so that -- in the period that is necessary -- we achieve the goal that a meat of extraordinary quality, like Galician, is properly paid on the market, because that's the only future that the sector has. And I finish by asking you, in response to your inquiry, to join the Councillory and the sector in the work of the strategy to ensure the future of our livestock holdings, a livestock that produces, ladies and gentlemen, meat of a recognized quality in the market, excellent meat and which, in addition, is a guarantor and guardian of our territory, working with your efforts to keep our rural life alive. I was visiting a farm yesterday in Montederramo with 122 cows serving 90 hectares. If they hadn't worked for them, there'd only be abandonment and fires. So, with all this, with all this joint work -- I repeat -- let's do rural Galicia, let's do Galicia for the future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u161	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the economic situation of the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u162	Mr. Rivas has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u163	Thank you very much, President. Counselor. He said at the beginning of the position of the non-law proposal that presented the spokesperson of the People's Group here in this House that in 2015 the increase in European milk production, the extension of the Russian embargo, the alleged decline in exports to China and the end of the dairy quotas conditioned and motivated a great mobilization in which you had a clear role. Their silence in the conflict, the inaction, the introduction of distorting elements of the unity of producers in that mobilization, leads them to deduce that the People's Party has positioned itself on the side of industry and distribution, doing the work of weakening agricultural trade union organizations. When this work was done, the apology was served in Madrid and "M dot Rajoy" and Minister Tejerina set up in the capital of the empire a healthy with the signature of a dairy agreement that contained only phrases that solved nothing, nothing linked, that were not even intentions, that almost no one signed and that did not comply. It was a stab in the back, demobilization and all pissed off -- with the excuse of the word -- and disappointed in the house. In whose hands is the transformation of the milk product, of Spain's best milk, of the best milk in Europe? Can the Councillor of such a continued government sleep in the long term that he has a major capital sector and that he is being extortioned by transnational companies that represent precisely the competition in milk production? And here, Counselor, you have to define yourself. What's the country of reference? Is there the German country? Is it the Council of Galicia the legitimate government of the German country? Is it legitimate in political terms for the Union to push for an intervention of Italian capital in the transformation and distribution of its star product, milk? Because, otherwise, if there is no country and its government is not, I don't know what we paint here seventy-five Members and Members elected by the people of the Greeks and the Greeks. And if, on the other hand, if there is a country, you will have to explain to us why this opposition from that right-wing race that represents against the possibility of a group of Greek majority capital milk. Because a large part of the transformation industry that operates in this territory has been under French control for decades now, because the Spanish state is milk-deficit, consumes about 10 million liters a year and only produces 7. And now someone tells me this: the industry exports -- these 7 -- 1.5, one third of milk and one third of butter. And the distribution imports 3 million pounds of milk, 2 of them in the form of cheese. Who's the distribution? "You'll know them by their works" -- says an old book that at one time was wisdom. The distribution is those investment funds and oligopolies that sell milk to the consumer as a claim product and that they are not willing to comply with that first market law that I told them before. If production costs increase, the final price should be increased at the same or higher. But no, these full bandul corporations are able to extort and wreak death into a whole sector of what thousands of families and mouths depend on. And they sell losses. It's forbidden by law, yes. But they're above the law, or they think so because some governments don't have enough value to get them cut. And so they have the will of man and of the divine. By the way, which side are you on? The sector. The story is serious, because the rise in raw materials, such as soy, rapeseed or cornmeal -- which rose by 50% in the last year --, the synthesis subsidies, the agricultural gas oil -- that went from 55 to 85 cents -- or the receipt of light -- with increases of more than 50 % -- are reducing the low margin with which some -- not all -- dairy farms. In serious calculation, these elements condition 60 % of production costs. And these move in a fork of 30 to 40 cents, so, with an increase of 30% of these costs, we have the liter of milk between 5 and 8 cents more expensive. And let's not forget that we're talking about a strategic sector for the whole of Galicia, which is currently threatened by its viability. And now what? How are we going to overcome the disunity and discouragement that you provoked and fed in that attempt to cancel agricultural trade union organizations? What therapy is indicated? And don't deny us that evidence. The contempt they feel for them is demonstrated in the eighteen years without renewing the Agrarian Council. What representativeness can it have? Didn't anything change at that time in the country? Eighteen years! Because you have no responsibility in the critical situation of the sector. You just have been ruling with full competence the rural environment of this rural... how many years? How many? And, of course, the policies of premeditated destruction and abandonment are not their responsibility. The world began -- everything else -- in the Bipartite. And it won't be. That was an honorable parenthesis of three and a half years. [[Applause]] And from whom, then, is the responsibility of landless holdings that have now been discovered?, from whom do the 200,000 hectares abandoned or underused?; from whom is the absence of the capital transformation industry?, from whom are the 704 masses of partial concentration, 23,000 hectares, abandoned to their fate?Of whom are the 50,000 hectares of high-capacity agricultural land illegally planted and allowed by their government?; from whom is the difference of 3 cents/litre from one side of the river Navia paid by the same industry? You're guilty of the unstoppable path towards the intensive and the macro-grindes. That's right, praising the small and medium-sized family farms in a camouflage operation that no longer fits. Increases the size of farms and decreases the number of producers. Where are the protection policies for small and medium-sized farms and the territorial base? Do you want to justify us, with the Land Recovery Act, that they are now ready -- again -- to do what they do? What have they done in these last 12 years with the Land Bank -- a tool that they could use and that they've been tied up --? And now you're going to tell us that you have no responsibility in the small situation that crosses the dairy sector in its weaker link in production. Before the law of the food chain -- that in the propaganda of recovery the right branch believes that it belongs to it by divine assignment -- before that law -- that goes for God that law! -- before 2009, we left enough tools to balance the situation. Do you remember what business management groups are? AXE? Remember what they used to do? Do you remember the approved contracts? Do you know anything about the Milky Way Observatory? Because it really seems here that the Milky Way Observatory is something that you invent now. But that was, that worked until 2012. What's the matter is that you, suddenly... pum!, disappeared! It's gone by magic art. Everything disappears here and appears by magic. And there was the Milk Bureau as a forum for debate and negotiation. It was such rage that you brought that they blew everything up and spent twelve empty years in silence, resting from the effort of eucalypt development. Political disgust! But now we enter a new era, the Sánchez era, and they were encouraged to justify their failure. And in Madrid, very familiar to them of the reality of the primary sector, of this northwest yard, they drew the Law from the food chain, which, as a new constitution, establishes the resounding precept: "In contracts you cannot pay below the costs of production". And who's gonna put the trigger on the cat? Where is the cost of production? How do you figure it out? Of course! It's just that we're -- as I said -- in a new constitution, a very nice precept, but it doesn't work, either for the milk or for the meat or for the rabbit or for nothing. It doesn't work for anything. And so, at first, a first Ministry study set production costs at 36 cents/litre. They started the relevant pressures there, which bend those who are not firm, those who have no clear who they serve and those who owe them loyalty, and resulted in a second study. This one, yes, already marked a fork from 30 to 45 cents. So it was something else, a minimum of 30 cents was already acceptable. And yet it didn't -- because the milk is paid lower in some cases --. And here we are, in a debate -- let's say -- technical in what neither Madrid nor San Caetano decide to solve. The multinationals are very heavy, Counselor. They're sold, both of them. Tell me, Counselor, what will they do, what is your position in the face of this conflict. Because something they're gonna do, or? We have two proposals which are contained in the amendment we made to the GNP which they presented in their group. They reactivate an intermediation mechanism where you are legitimately the arbitrators, but feel the distribution. Because the industry here is guilty, but who marks the path and who marks the pattern is the distribution. Feel the distribution and make us look at each other and talk to each other. Then press, because you have politics, you have a majority. This is the majority group of the House. They use that majority that gives them enough power to tell whoever sits on that table: hey!, you have to plow, because the sector is all one, or should be all one, according to all that they say producers, entrepreneurs... that of the municipality, of the union, that reminded me of the Vertical Union and that you want to use to replace trade union organizations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u164	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u165	Well, that's the first point. And the second point, at which we agree, is to press the central government to pull out a mechanism, so that it validates a mechanism, that is, yes, binding and conditioning. Because if not, it's not worth anything. If not, the dairy agreement -- I have it here, I have it underlined --, which has been signed -- I repeat -- as a final trapping stab, neither has it been accomplished nor even if it is done would be worth nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u166	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're here again, as I said, double-crossed. And after the long night of stone that came after what brought the Bipartite that enlightened us all, it always costs me a lot to return to the past. And Mr. Rivas always brings us the collation. And you count, with extraordinary words and with that tone you have, a number of issues that are difficult to albiscate in Galician territory. I have some written words here, but it's just that you've talked about so many things and moved so many questions, that I'd like, at least, to move something too -- and if Mr. Seco was there, I could tell him too --. In this case, in the strategy of the dairy sector, ladies and gentlemen, we did not have to wait for our children to be deputies to have the strategy, because it is approved and launched this year 2021. The strategy, as it cannot be otherwise, has been spoken to the sector, also those agricultural organizations that Mr. Rivas says do not exist, or that we have not considered them. By the way, there are the two that exist on the Agrarian Council. Then Mr. Rivas will tell me that some of them are missing in relation to the Galician Nationalist Block, but they are the ones who have representativeness in the sector. In particular, Agricultural Unions and the Galician Labour Union participated in the strategy. And we talk to each other and we define a number of issues. I'd like to know what force it is that gives you a capital of a transformation company that is exclusively Greek. And I'm not saying that it can't be German. But what's the strength? What are you doing? What does it make? In something extraordinary, in something magical that solves all the problems? Because, look, I'm sure you've read the strategy, Mr. Rivas. What does the strategy say about this? What do we want to support? You tell me, the members of the Galician Nationalist Block, in turn, if they don't like it. We want there to be transformation industries with shareholding, social capital, livestock associations. What do you think? I don't care if they come from North America, the Netherlands or wherever they are, but if they have a share in the capital, the Germans, who negotiate long-term contracts with them, and from there, when there are benefits in transformation, those benefits also go, through the distribution of dividends, to our owners. I know, when we talk about these terms of glove, it's the same as someone who's apologizing. Because I'm talking about entrepreneurs, I want them to be in transformation companies. That's what I'm interested in, not the nationality of who's making the transformation. Because, among other things, do you know why they come here? Because here's an extraordinary, high-quality milk. And, therefore, they have to come here to do the business. We have to try to keep added value in the territory; therefore, we bet on the shareholding of the owners. Moreover, in our own order of processing and marketing, we're going to collect a credit reserve to favour the processing industries with the participation of the owners. Mr. Rivas was also talking about taking a little bit of the debate he spoke to on the topic of the Land Bank. I have to tell you that you know I share the instrument, but I don't share it as the bipartite was legislate. We think that it can be improved, as in fact it is much improved in the Law of Recovery of Galician Land. It's about macro-grandes and that we support macro-grandes and multinationals, which is one of the mantras. I thought we wiped out the mantras in the budget debate -- we talked about it, that no mantra came out --. But they come to us again with the macrograndes. And what are macro-grindes, Mr. Rivas? You define them. Because half of the cows in Galicia are in 42. It's half the rest of the state. I spoke to Agrimuralla last week, Mr. Rivas, and I was also gathered with a milk cow. And there we debate long and held on which should be the ideal size of the Galician farm. In fact, we've already started a study to determine that size. Well, we'll have to determine where the profitability of our farms is so that, when people are in the territory, they live decently. Or do we want him to live in misery? So I say, there's going to be, of course, a possible growth in the number of cows, but we're not going to talk about macrograndes. Of course, if you define me macrograndes and you tell me that a farm of 60 mugid cows is a macrogrande -- which is a point 5, half, from Galicia -- then I already tell you that I support those macrograndes, just to keep it in mind. And we have to go a little bit to the interrogation. You've raised more issues, and it's good to discuss. I'd like to see you, in turn, be able to discuss matters without paying attention to the default scripts. But by going a little to his interpellation, you speak in your own writing that the State Government washes its hands after making a mockery of the so-called Food Chain Law. Man, I agree with you. In this mockery of law -- especially in the prohibition of selling to losses -- it didn't serve any of the proposals that the Galician Union made. And I have to tell you, Mr. Rivas, that you can no longer put back a vote that has just been carried out. But to say that the Milky Account does not serve to believe the cost of production means to ignore the Milky Account. I also offer to talk, when you want, about the Milk Account, because I had a lot to do with your technical configuration in the field of strict respect for accounting, Spanish accounting legislation, and that, as a mechanism, precisely, you could use legally -- and I explained it to you too -- in case you had to go to discussion with the distribution. But in addition, the Milky Account makes another important issue -- in my opinion -- because it's a homogeneous application with equal rules for all the owners. And, therefore, we also defend that in Galicia we have homogeneous mechanisms and mechanisms adapted to national accounting regulations so that we can believe production costs. The law says "production costs can be trusted by any means of evidence valid in law." And we're asking the Central Government through an amendment in the Senate -- and we're also asking your spokesman to support it -- it was that we were allowed to explicitly collect the Milky Account. Can it get better? If you have any news of a defect because some alderman is telling you that the Milky Account doesn't work well, I'm grateful to you for your transfer. Because we want to succeed and, of course, use the Milk Account precisely as a mechanism to believe production costs. Because I'm going to tell you one thing: this one you're talking about here strongly believes in the prohibition of selling to losses and firmly believes in the need to implement controls through the Food Quality Control Agency to check that these requirements are being met. What do we have to do if we want to support the sector? We talk to agricultural organizations, we talk to associations, we ask everyone to start putting the data right into the Milky Account. In the meantime, we are working on other features of the Milky Account; for example, where it can also be used for tax returns from our owners. Last week I was in Castela-Leon watching precisely the mechanisms that the rural council of that autonomous community has to, through the data coming from that computer application, be able to even tell the owners where they're working wrong from the cost point of view, whether they have a bad electrical power contract or if they have any other issues that might help them in terms of the efficiency of management. Because, Mr. Rivas -- and this is probably a question that clearly distinguishes us from an ideological point of view in relation to the Galician Nationalist Block -- we believe our netizens are entrepreneurs and they have to have that business capacity. And we'll have to talk to them, as I tell them -- at least so I'll do it while I'm a counselor -- of added value, of profitability, of production costs and of being able to have a market that allows them to have -- as I say -- that profitability to live in rural areas. So I move it to you that I like the position of the Block in the sense that the law of food quality, in the prohibition of selling to losses, is wet paper. But I asked him to help us precisely to defend ourselves from Galicia that we could try to prevent that wet paper. And I'm also moving you -- responding to your demand with the Milky Way Observatory -- that I would like -- even though I don't think they're coming to the Government and, of course, I don't want you to rule -- to see you, if you're rural Middle East advisor, meeting with distribution, with industry and livestock in the Milky Way Observatory, with that pressure that you say you have and that ability that you have to convince them that they pay the milk at their corresponding price. Among other things, because you might be reminded of some of the demonstrations you're doing right now in these interventions. But, look, in addition to moving him that we have the Milky Way Observatory right now in decree, I don't know why it feels bad that, even if you did, now we want to get him back. Is that bad? We're recovering him. While we're processing the Milky Way Observatory, I can be right to the entire Galician Parliament that we've been in the last three months for more than thirty meetings with distribution, industry and gloves. And we're moving them, especially to the distribution, that we have to raise the awareness of the final consumer that milk is a product of extraordinary quality, that the tetra brick collects much more than a liquid, collects custody of the territory, collects animal welfare, collects food security, collects fights against depopulation and collects, of course, prevention against forest fires. And that awareness work we have to get it then impact all the links in the value chain, which goes the value added down to the weakest link in the chain, which is the winner. And for that the fundamental tool -- and that's why I ask you again for support in that sense and that we continue to touch on those who really have the ability to legislate and transpose the directive, which is the central government -- is the prohibition of sales on losses. It's the tool that our moneywinners have. And I continue to commit myself to, through computer tools like the one that we put on the table and the reinforcement of the controls, we are able to prevent the ban on loss of sales from becoming wet paper. So I ask you to support our livestock sector on that line. Nothing else and thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u168	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Rivas' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, it's a lot of things. Look, it's not wrong to recover from the Observatory. What's wrong with it is to claim it by means of a future decree as if nothing happened in the previous one. The problem with you is that. The problem with you is that you are responsible for the policies that have been implemented in this country, except for three and a half years of parenthesis and another three, or two -- it seems to me that you were -- with the government of González Laxe. The rest are responsible for you, the policies and the state where the sector is and where the rural environment is. And they can't help it, or they shouldn't. Look, it makes it essential that they be serious and go ahead, and call things by their name. If you're in favour of the Greek dairy sector, show it using that majority of what they so presume. Intermediate, press, feel the distribution and conditioning to make the necessary bids at the final price. The loss sale is forbidden, as I told you and as you said so. Look, why don't we know any of the industry's transfer prices to distribution? You don't know anything about that! As long as we don't know the structure of these prices, as if to comply with the final price and all of their process, we cannot shed light on the matter. We must not forget that milk is a dietary element of difficult substitution for human nutrition because it is an easy-to-absorption calcium source -- of the few --. So here we have a secure future if you are firm; that is, if you see why milk production is logical. What is a production of logical milk? Well, it's the opposite of macrograndes. Of course, a macro-grind is a machine that operates and produces milk, meat or other without territorial basis, without counting on the environment and without counting on its own production. And that in Galicia was easy to do, what happens is -- as I told you before -- the policies that you've operated are going for macrograndes, for intensification. And that's a macrogrande. There could be a macro-grind of 60 cows in a place that only has two hectares of land to work on, and there could be a macro-grind of 400 cows with 400 hectares. And a 300 acres equal is not a macrogrande. Got it? What we are talking about here is the insertion of these farms into the territory and above all the ability to create jobs, life, economic dynamism and to create added value. And that's what we should talk about at once. The industries come here, of course, because there's an extraordinary milk, that extraordinary milk, both in fat and protein. Yeah, how do they treat us? Well, and also extraordinary in bacteriological quality and in health. How do they treat us? As if we were Kenya. Of course! Why? Because they say the price to pay. And they also pay us the lowest price of the whole state, the whole state! The lowest price save honorable exceptions. Of course, there are a lot of things I've touched, because, Counsellor, you know that the dairy and rural sectors are a complex issue. I know it's not in the papers, I know we're out there because it doesn't matter. Society evolves differently. But we're there, and we should be the basis of food sovereignty, which you deny because the word "sovereignty" produces shocks for them. Look at Ireland. Shall we talk about a little bit of Ireland? The secret that Ireland today has the highest income in Europe lies in good governance. You have a right-wing government -- continued right-wing --. Of course, but with a country concept -- and then I'll come back again --. Government for the country, first invested heavily in training -- with a lot of social responses, eh!, "Where are these going?" --. He invested heavily in training, made rural pride of country, and around the milk they created industry. But they took it as a whole: production of milk and industry. And today they have high value added products, like breast milk for children. And that's where the money from Europe went. What is not allowed in politics is not to be responsible for the measures applied in the past and its consequences. Counsellor, you will always have the BNG next to you if you take the relevant measures seriously, the relevant measures to raise the milk sector in this country, to deal with it as it should be, not for policies that are against you; or that they should be dumb and not present where they have to be, pressing and playing, of course, the re-election. Possibly, yes, of course, if these big industries and these big groups draw financial and moral support from them, because maybe you won't, but you would have contributed to the country's well-being and you would have that which you don't like, that patriotism that is no more than to watch the people around...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u171	...for which they are of the same condition as us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u172	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation by the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I shall begin at the end of your intervention. The rest of us listen to him here many times, we listen to our fellow People's Party. He says, "They'll always have BNG to do country politics." Then tell me why I voted against the Law of Recovery of Galician Land. Tell me! And today, in this LNP, why have they abstained? Why do you have a milk account defect? Well, let's work so I don't have them. But isn't it a good thing for the yellow cattle, Mr Rivas -- and the Galician Nationalist Block says it's a country policy -- that from Galicia there's an instrument that believes production costs so that they can effectively put the ban on loss of sales into operation? Is it good or not good? Then we vote in favour! Can't we take them all and present these motions, and make them strong, and also convince the Socialist Party -- as I asked their voices in a letter -- to make that change? What else is there for me to present the amendment of the People's Party in the Senate? If you presented it, we would support that amendment, because it would be good for the country. Yes, Mrs. Rodil, I also hear those good words many times, but then, when you have to do country politics, if you come from the PP, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the only criterion. Ladies and gentlemen, if it comes from the PP, no. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I really do make an effort to understand it, apart from what I like to hear, Mr. Rivas -- you know --. But I do my best to find that desire to reach agreements on important issues for our rural community. I, when I hear in a parliament -- if I may, Mr. Puy, since you also have to do with this competition -- that using the majority of parliament we can press and impose prices on industry and distribution, is that I get my hair on top of what I'm taking them. And I would tell you, Mr Rivas, that at least they need a majority in Galicia enough to change Community competition rules -- because this doesn't even go from the Spanish state --. And I know you don't have a lot of worry about whether it's the Spanish State or the European Government, because they're going to say you have to leave Europe. By the way, before, when I told you that of the 200 million euros in direct aid -- 210 that we have from the CAP -- you know where they come from. So it doesn't seem very good to you that we're talking about these things. I ask you to measure those statements, man! Above all, I ask you to be aware of where you can get to. We can't impose prices on anyone by competition rules. We can meet and transfer the need for the product to be valued. You were also talking about a sector with the secure future. Yeah, that's where we totally agreed. We have an extraordinary milk and we can assume it anywhere, not only by amount but also by quality. And do you think you're not securing the future that people from Guadalajara are coming to make milk here with InLeit? Yes, let's ask the gentlemen if they're changing to InLeit if they have a price problem, Mr. Rivas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here is the need to raise awareness of the distribution or the end consumer that milk is an extraordinary product, and that distribution can lead to industry that higher price and that industry, of course, brings it closer to the livestock. And I repeat again, to make my position clear, that the fundamental tool -- and it wasn't easy to put it into the Food Chain Law -- is the prohibition of selling to losses if it actually applies. Because, as I told you, and as we've explained, it's put there to stay on wet paper. That's why we wanted to strengthen the mechanisms that would allow the ban on sales to be met. But I also tell you that something we're going to do in Galicia, that we're already working that way. We wanted there to be sensitivity. We went on land, sea and air, because we went with phone calls, we went with letters, we went with motions, we went with proposals to the voices so they could help us. But even if they didn't pick up our requests, we're working. Because, as I say to the minister, we will be small in other things, but in milk we are 40% of the national territory and therefore some attention must be paid to Galicia. I like it very much, ladies and gentlemen, that of the macrogrande. Maybe one in sixty is macro-grange and one in four hundred, no. We will have to continue, in future debates, drawing up this definition of macro-grange. But there are no farms here without a territorial base, Mr. Rivas. Where are they? In a milk cow? You bring me the examples. Here are farms that need more territorial base. Of course!, it is fully defined in the strategy of the dairy sector and in the Law of Recovery of Galician Land, which in its own explanatory statement says that its priority is to regain a territorial base around the facilities of our farms. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can follow with the mantra that the Recovery Law is for eucalyptus Galicia and that it is for great multinationals, Mr Rivas. The Recovery Act, do you know who's buying it? The people of the villages -- I told them the other day in the budget debate -- when we're going to talk to them about model villages and agricultural polygons and explain what we want to do, when we tell them that we give legal security to the owner, that we want him to sell or rent -- better than rent to have an additional income for his land -- when we tell them that they have to give the use mainly to our farmers and farmers who demand that territorial base -- that we know it because we did a "management of interest" -- do you know what they tell us?"Where I have to sign, I want this to get to work as soon as possible." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u174	Thank you, Counselor. It was an interesting debate. And I also wanted to say that two or three daily dairy rations and dairy products are what nutritionists recommend, especially ours. Yeah, yeah, that's what they recommend. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you and until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u175	Good afternoon. Agenda change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u176	We continue the session with a change in the agenda. We are forwarding the formulation of a question to the Government, the question of Mrs. Patricia Otero Rodríguez. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the new waste plant planned to install in the municipality of Riotorto
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u177	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u178	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. Today, from this parliamentary group, we are obliged to ask you this question about the lack of transparency and opacity with which your advisor, with which Sogama and also with which the Riotorto Town Hall are dealing with the location of the new waste plant that would have to serve not only to Riotorto Town Hall but also, in principle, to the municipalities of Pol, Meira, The Pontenova, The Pastory and Ribeira de Piquin. Since you don't talk to these municipalities and neither to the neighborhood of the surrounding area, that's why we're going to try to find out what the reasons are for the efforts of the Galician Council to install this waste plant in Riotorto City despite the social opposition and also the institution shown. This neighborhood, as you well know, was manifested last September 27 when you presented this project yourself in the parish of Aldurfe. These neighbors and neighbors pushed you back in your decision to install this waste plant in this parish, because the project affected their livestock farms -- because they wanted to place it in the heart of this parish of Aldurfe -- and they also affected their homes, but you keep insisting on their placement in Riotorto Town Hall. The mayors of the surrounding area, who must also serve this new waste plant, have also shown their rejection, since this placement would greatly exacerbate the costs of this new appropriation. They sent you a letter, Counselor, to find out why the Galician Council considers this to be the best location. But what did they get? The silence by answer. The mayors of Meira, Pol, The Pastory, the Riverside of Beijing and Pontenova offer a more viable alternative to locate this new waste plant, and this is the clean point of Meira Serra, in Juncas, The Pastory, which already has infrastructure, -- water, light and access -- and therefore would not start from zero, as in the case you insist, in Riotorto municipality. We'd have to expand these facilities, not start from scratch, nor affect the livestock farms, nor will the neighborhood of the surrounding area. So the location in Riotorto has much more economic cost, also higher travel costs for these municipalities -- because, as you know, there is a greater distance and that would also exacerbate the displacement with waste -- and therefore these mayors offer them another installation, to which you, again, give the silence in response. So we insist today. What or what are the reasons why the Galician Union would like to install this new waste plant in Riotorto Town Hall? For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u180	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Otero, we better contextualize and then go to the concrete, if you like. We've been, and you know, for years, optimizing all resources through urban waste collection services and thus boosting a circular economy. And optimizing resources means mapping the territory and, from there on, acquiring what no autonomous community has yet achieved, which is to have it totally vertebrate so that in 2022 we have the necessary bioresidue plants so that the municipalities can implement their fifth container and therefore make the treatment of bioresidue. And for that, we are working and helping the municipalities, to all the municipalities, Mrs. Otero. There's no color or anything like it. To all the municipalities! We have a goal ahead, a goal that marks us the European Union, but also an objective that is impossible to achieve -- and of what you and your team should be very concerned about -- which is that they want to force all the Greek municipalities, those of the PSOE, but also those of the rest of the acronyms, to have the fifth container installed. And that's really worrying. What are we doing since the Environmental Council? Well, the best solutions -- technical, social, economic and environmental solutions --. And that's why we designed the Welsh Bioresidue Strategy 2022-2023, a strategy that we cofinanced and that we arrived at the 60 million dollar dollar. As you know, on December 31st, the municipalities must have implanted the brown container, something that, of course, we are going to achieve, always and when the central government, the corresponding ministry, rebounds, gives it back -- as you have just done now with the wolf strategy -- and therefore the deadlines are able to fulfill the councils. It's, as you know, a competition of the municipalities -- that of the collection of waste and biowaste --. Even so, the Galician Union is next to it, because this is to be next to the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] We conducted a technical study to design an infrastructure network. No municipality will be more than 50 kilometers away from a transfer plant or a bioresidue plant. And what we want to achieve, the goal we're marking is to have a certified quality composite. So we design four plants of bioresidue, one per province. And I say it so that you can see the political sign and see whether we talk to the municipalities or not. Cerceda, Vilanova de Arousa, Verín and Cervo are bidden, others are already adjudicated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u181	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u182	...and there are 13 transfer plants, from which I now give you the location.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Otero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u184	Thank you, President. Well, we're also going without that answer. We were trying, again, to know what were the reasons why the Galician Union is starting to implant that new waste plant in Riotorto Town Hall when there are other more viable options, but you again give the silence in response. By the way, since we're already used to it, it's all about throwing balloons out and talking about the central government. But, Counselor, step back, you retreated to the social pressure of the neighbors and the neighbors of Aldurfe, who said to him, "We don't want this waste plant there." Because he was next to his gainful farms and also next to his houses. [[Applause]] Therefore, retreat, retreated to Galician Union. As you said, we'd better contextualize and then go to the most concrete. Yeah, look, we contextualized. Many, many, many, criticisms of Sogama's waste management model. And this -- going to concrete -- is one more -- this criticism that neighbors and neighbors make for installing that waste plant where they wanted to install it --. Of course, we regret the lack of dialogue of his counseling on such an important subject as the management of our waste. Where there are, in principle, six municipalities affected, since the usual political sectarianism of the People's Party regrettably only listen to the only council where their party governs. All they hear is the county of Riotorto. I ask you from this bench, Counsellor, is that you listen, that you listen to the neighborhood, that you also listen to the mayors of the surrounding area and that you all talk about -- because it's time to talk and that you also listen and don't make decisions back to the neighbors, which then the result is what is --. Talk to the neighbors, talk to the mayors, find the best place for this new waste plant, and don't keep doing things for yourself and as they like. Then there are those results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u186	...with that neighborly opposition you know so much. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u187	Thank you. Close the question by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the neighbours, there was consensus and dialogue, both on the part of the Town Hall and on the part of this council. I was present and you were not, with which I will know a little more than there happened to you. [[Applause]] But I'm going to give you names of the 13 transfer plants we have now, that you have to modernize them and some are new: Pontiff, Cee, Vigo, The Porriño, Lugo, Ourense, Silleda, Narón... we can keep talking. I say it because of what you want to mask that things don't happen technically. Yeah, they're technically done. It equals color. All we want is the good service for Galicia. So that's where we're going to go. And from the thirteen transfer plants, five are microplants that need to be improved to accommodate bioresidues -- for example Ponticeso or Curtis, who were able to follow on the same site -- and there are others that cannot follow on the same site simply because technically it is unfeasible -- The Blade, for example, or The Cañiza, for more than the same --. And in Riotorto, the plant that has to serve doesn't have enough dimensions to fit that expansion, and so you have to look for another location. And that's what we are. Don't worry about what we're doing here. We'll do it right. No municipality will be more than 50 kilometers away from a plant. And it's all the opposite of what you say. Not increasing costs, what we're doing is lowering costs. Because if you hadn't implanted that improvement on this plant, you'd have to come, for example, to Cerceda, or you'd have to go to Place -- where we're also going to expand it --. So don't distort speech. We're here to lower the costs and, on the other hand, to be able to get that matter that has to go to a fifth container to be able to implement it. Be sure that dialogue exists, that it talks to the municipalities -- with which to talk --. And from there the implantation will be real and we will have both bioresidue plants and transfer plants, all of them, to start its operation at the end of the year 2022. And that's what we get is a lower price for our neighbors to pay and, most importantly, less taxes. And I would ask you to be concerned about how the taxes of all the Greeks and the Greeks will be recorded, because not only with that catastrophe, which is also good for you to go to the rural nuclei, but with the implantation of a new tax on the ton of waste, which will not pay even one or two, but will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u189	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u190	...all the neighbors of Riotorto and the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u191	Your time is up. Thank you. Let's resume the agenda and get back to the interrogations. Question by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the policy of the German Government in relation to the situation of the Greek language in education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u192	Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u193	"The school acts like a disengagement agent. It's a hostile environment, it doesn't provide the boys and girls who speak English with the right environment to develop their skills in their own language, but it causes their retraction." -- Enrique Monteagudo, secretary and coordinator of the Royal Galaga Academy Sociolinguistic Seminar --. [[Applause]] One in four children under 15 years of age, 23.9 percent, says they don't know Greek. And more than 50 percent of high school students say they don't feel comfortable expressing themselves in English. Reports from the Royal Gallega Academy : "The German Government is failing to implement the European Charter of minority and regional languages. This is something that all socio-linguistic studies show, that the use of Greek falls significantly." -- Davyth Hicks, Secretary-General of the European Network for Language Equality (ELEN) --. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, President. Counsellor, you know how we today could devote all this intervention to bringing statements like these, but our intention, what we wanted, is to make it clear that the language consensus that we are trying to propose for teaching with this intervention today is not the need for a new normative framework for Greek, it is not something that brings only the BNG to this Parliament today; it is something that they have endorsed -- still in very recent statements these days -- for example, bodies such as the Royal Galician Academy, Greek public universities, UNESCO, the Council of Europe, the European Network for the Equality of Languages, the Galician Culture Council, the Institute of Galician Language...; that is, the entire academic and educational socio-linguistic community. Basic proposals included today are, Counsellor, in a linguistic consensus that is supported on three main pillars: first, linguistic rights for the student of Greece; second, standardization of the language itself; and third, Counsellor, derogation from the "Decree of Shame". [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So what we want to see here is whether the Board, if the Administration, which has been mandated by law to protect and encourage the language of Galicia, and if you come here to clarify whether you're going to be next to science, if you're going to be next to the university, whether you're going to be with the Council of Galician Culture and whether you're going to be with UNESCO, or whether you're going to remain alienated and aligned with negationism, supremacism and Galicianism. [[Applause]] And this, if it was a BNG member who came to tell you, because I understand that it would be of relative importance to you, but the problem is that this is something that comes to tell someone like the president of the Royal Galaga Academy these days, when he pointed out that, in a reference to the President of the Board, Mr. Feijóo, he said, "That's what you did because you're pleased with some of them, isn't it?" --referred to the decree of shame-- Counselor, you know who those "some" are, don't you? The question I ask you is whether it is worth putting against the strings a millennium-old language to please those "some" by a poor little boy electoral interest. Is it worth being profiled at the worst blood of speakers in our history to please those "some" who are nothing but negationism, supremacism and ultra-rightness? [[Applause]] So, we think about it as a very simple thing, we look at it: "Social psychology" -- in O'Shea terminology -- "define negationism as the refusal to accept an empirically verifiable reality and to escape scientific consensus for interested, unfounded or controversial ideas." We don't even put on a coma, Counselor; what we put on is the mirror, Mr. Rodríguez. Let's see what science says, let's see what the academic world says, and see what the People's Party's response is. Let's start, if you like. Reports from the Royal Galaga Academy -- the most recent, but also some --: School sociolinguistic map and Report on the evaluation of language competition. What do you call these reports? Today we have a loss of 11.5% of initial speakers in the first contact with the school environment; 1 out of every 10 children entering the school being a Galician no longer a child education. Secondary -- I don't say so, I say to the Royal Galaga Academy, because there is some kind of doubt -- in urban and peri-urban areas, only 11% of the student is Gallo-speaking, another 11%, bilingual, compared to 77% of the usual Spanish speakers, mostly monolingual. Translated, Counselor: of every 10 children in the towns and cities of this country, one speaks Greek, another is bilingual and eight speak Spanish. Thirdly, since these reports are coming up, Counsellor: 40% of the city's child centres never use the English language and almost 80 percent mostly use Spanish. And before that, Mr. Rodríguez, in view of this analysis of the Royal Galaga Academy -- the main linguistic authority of a country, which we understand should be a reflection by your advisor -- what is the response of the Education Council? "Teaching is fulfilling its function with the Greek language." Román Rodríguez, Education Counsellor, April 2021. And the question we ask you, Counselor, in the light of the data from the Royal Galaga Academy, in the data from the Board, is: is it or is it not your negationism, Mr. Rodríguez? Are you in a kind of linguistic terraplanism or are you with science and academia? And, look, it's not something we say, it's something that says, once again, the president of the Royal Galaga Academy himself. It's like, "From the RAG we've come to a deep understanding of the situation of language, based on rigorous data and analysis, but the data they handle" -- this "they" are you, gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Galician Union -- "I don't know where they get them." This is what the president of the Royal Galician Academy is saying: "Our studies are endorsed by the three Greek universities: Vigo, La Coruña and Santiago de Compostela, the Institute of Galician Language and the Council of Galician Culture. We all say the same thing; everyone except the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy." [[Applause]] Mr. Rodríguez, isn't it embarrassing for the President of the Royal Galaga Academy to have to make these statements? But one more thing happens if we go to what the Council of Europe says: "The presence of the Greek is insufficient in teaching. The limitations on the teaching of Greek must be removed and the decree must be repealed." What does Galician Union say?"The problem is not school. This problem occurs in school as it can happen in a summer camp." Román Rodríguez, November 2021. [[Applause]] I will no longer enter the frivolity of these statements, but to me what I would rather be clarified, Mr. Rodríguez, gentlemen of the People's Party, is whether it happened to you as to Mr. Pablo Casado, who went, without realizing, into a Frankish homily. [[Applause]] Let's continue with the data, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: IGE, Galego Institute of Statistics, because, in addition, it's a reference that you normally use. What is the IGE telling us? That 24 percent of children under the age of 15 can't speak German -- the Galego Institute of Statistics -- I keep wondering where they'd be listening to the screams on the right if this situation were reversed. IGE data: "Today, only 2 out of 10 children learn to speak English in their childhood." These, Mr. Rodríguez, are the data being transferred from the Galego Institute of Statistics itself. And what you, in terraplanist language, call it "the Greek is reinforcing itself as the majority language of Galicia" -- Román Rodríguez, November 2021 -- in sociolinguistics, I have to tell you, Mr. Rodríguez, has a very clear, scientific and academic name, it's called "language substitution process," and that's what you and your government are contributing to our language. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Rodríguez, what we want to bring with this plea -- after that, in the reply, we will have an opportunity to evaluate and to deepen, if you lend yourself, to some of these data -- is whether you will continue to be installed in negationism, in autonomial and in submission to Madrid's orders, which show with absolute clarity that if Mr. Pablo Casado or Mrs. Ayuso told you to jump as massis, you would jump as massis, and if that means that a thousand-year-old language will be taken and that it will be held up to the strings, they will not even have the least repair. That's why I wanted to take advantage of this first intervention to end with some of the memories that were made, with a fragment of a text by Darío Xoán Cabana, because I'm convinced that I would share much of the valuations that are being made about the Greek language. And the poem is "The Wolf," which is musicated, in addition, by one of the fellows that we have here. He said, "And the rivers sang the chorus/a song never sung/ the horizon opened in song/ by a clear razor,/ and the sky was again/ a blue and whiter sky". In those walks, Darío Juan, with the tongue, and looking for this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u194	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u195	...before then, recover that blue and whiter sky.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u196	Thank you, Mr. Lorenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, Mr. Lourenzo, who begins the afternoon with a lot of energy. It looks very energetic, really. But there is a truth that is also true: his arguments have been heard in this House a hundred times. They're absolutely repetitive. The only novelty you introduce today is to make references to Mrs Ayuso. I think it's the great novelty that you're considering, because, no doubt, the subject of language, the intended politicization of the language that you make, is one of the most recurrent themes of the BNG. You were talking -- which is always curious -- about trying to promote a linguistic consensus. Coming from the BNG, that's like putting a pyroman in the counter-indemnity service, absolutely the same. I have been in this House for some time as a Member and as Counsellor and I remember that in 2013, when a linguistic consensus was offered, at a time of tension, the response of the BNG was: anything, less consensus. [[Applause]] With which, really, I recognize that you are persevering, that you have constancy, that you have the ability to listen to society, that you realize that society, the Greeks, we are absolutely obsessed with monolingualism, as you are, absolutely, and I believe that your obsession in this House gives rise to a lot of applause from its bench, generates a lot of cohesion within its political formation, but you have to say that in the street normality prevails, cordiality prevails and predominates the spirit of our culture and of what we are the Greeks: people we speak mostly in Greek, with absolute normality, and in Spanish, because we have two languages. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we use them in absolute freedom, and we don't use them with negationism or we're alienated... I don't know where you get that from; from your imagination, from your particular political catechism. No, that's not it. Not long ago, in this House itself, I think it was in May, a few months ago, you presented a virtually similar interpellation, so I insist that your record is highly laudable. But from those to today that happened? From those to today you're talking about a talk of widening up, getting to the bases, correcting, correcting the concerns of citizenship, education, health, employment, all that. But you have to recognize, however, that what really cohesions them is the absolutely monolithic themes. That's, let's say, his double gun: they say one thing, but then the facts let us stand out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have two lay weapons -- if I may -- one, that of the general discourse; but then, in practice and in fact, they really follow with an absolutely monolithic, closed, and that of all time. The truth is, by considering the use of languages as a key to conflict or as an absolutely political key, they're really not going to agree with what citizens think, which is what you say they want to do. His speech, which is always waved, is basically based on the need to suppress the decree of multilingualism and use the school with an absolutely monolingual perspective, thinking that school has the ability to modify everyday behaviors and issues as intimate as people as it is to use one language or another in absolute freedom. I understand that it is legitimate; it is legitimate for you to defend your ideology, absolutely legitimate. What is most questionable is that they try to hide it or disguise it under a kind of supposed restraint. We also ask you to have the same respect for this political formation and this government towards you, and to understand that it is legitimate to our proposal, the proposal of the Government of Greece, which has had it for many years -- by the way, referred to in the polls -- by maintaining a policy that is based on respect, which is based on balance and, above all -- and most importantly -- which results. [[Murmurs.]] And I'll give you data that I'm sure you're going to deny -- that that's a real negationism -- but it's the data of reality. Ladies and gentlemen, you look like those Swiss explorers who wanted to reach Mount Olympus at the beginning of the century, but who, through the fog, arrived at a mountain that was not the Olympus and thought they had arrived. They think they're coming to Mount Olympus, which have success in front of them, and that's why they resort to the messages of all time, but they're a little confused with the fog and they're not in the Olympus yet, they haven't reached the Olympus. And if they follow this line, their fog will confuse them completely. [[Applause]] You also asked us who we are, who the Government of the Union is, and who this party is. For the answer is very easy: we are next to the vast majority of the Greeks, but the vast majority of the Greeks who, following the electoral process, support us and who recognize in this support that the use of languages has to be an absolute use of freedom, at all costs and in absolute normality. What's normal in the street has to be normal in school and it has to be normal in Parliament too, and don't try to impose, with a monolithic vision -- from our perspective, absolutely wrong; from its not, and it's respectable -- its view of the country and, in this case too, its view of the language. You were talking about data. Man, I'm gonna give it to you, I suppose you won't go in and deny it -- although everything is possible --. Well, look, your model -- you have it said in this House hundreds of times -- is just to use it as a language to vehicle in the teaching of Greek, thinking that that's why they're going to get students, children and girls, to speak more in English. His model is the Basque Country. Part of the Basque Country, 70%, makes the model that you say, but we see this situation, that use of the language in the Basque country -- we've seen it a few days ago in a national newspaper -- has led to a loss of reading skills and understandings and has led to a non-increase of students, of Thursdays, in the management of the two languages. [[Murmurs.]] That's the official data, I suppose they won't deny it. What I was saying, about negationism, is that according to reports -- reports as well as the Pisa Report --, in Galicia we're going to be bad, you know, but we're the bilingual autonomous community where the student speaks the two co-official languages more easily -- data from the Pisa Report -- The same data from the Pisa Report also tells us that the student in English is the most competent in both languages. As I said, you have a respectable model. Another significant fact is that 96% -- data from the IGE -- of the student, almost 100% of the students in Greece, declare that they speak well or quite well in Greek, and they have full oral and written skills. It's the highest data, if we compare it, with all the autonomous bilingual communities in Spain. And also, a very important fact that sometimes escapes, a comparative fact, is that Galicia and the young Greeks are at the head of Spain regarding tolerance with other cultures. And it is curious that in those territories where the monolingual linguistic model is being implemented, with a single vehicle language as its own, are the last of the escalafon regarding tolerance with other cultures. Well, look, Galicia is not so bad, when we are, first, the most proficiency, skills and facilities we have to use both languages; and secondly, when we are the most tolerant compared to other autonomous communities. And that was achieved with a model that has been implemented for a long time and has not caused any problem -- beyond that, in linguistics, if it is at one end or another -- and with a model that has gradually adapted and that has enabled us to have the best results in knowledge of Spain. It's true that there are weaknesses, for example, in the use of Thursdays, but it's also true that you quote RAG. Well, I'm going to quote RAG, too. What do you tell RAG? RAG tells us that what matters is to promote Greek in the areas of socialization. And in that sense, we can't just transfer to school the responsibilities of greater or less use. One thing is knowledge -- which is the responsibility of the education system -- and another is use. Now, with monolytic languages like yours, by that line, you really won't get Thursdays to speak more Greek. We have to try, in some way, to encourage and convince from kindness, from social uses, to the young people who speak Greek, but don't spend more hours in teaching. That, simply, we've already achieved it, we know that our students have language and socio-linguistic skills in class without any problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u199	And to you, who also made appointments, I'm also going to tell you an appointment from a very relevant person, Ramón Villares, who was president of the Galaga Culture Council. Obviously, when something is said to you, it always seems bad, also with that sort of intellectual negationism: "If the language is still a cause of political conflict, it is lost." [[Murmurs.]] You're absolutely on that line... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u201	...and really, if they want to succeed and if they want to interpret correctly what's going on in society, they do, they assume and they understand that language is everyone's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u202	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u203	...and that we have a way of defending her, promoting her and arguing her, at least as good as hers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u204	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u205	Mr. Rodríguez, data, little or nothing. But it's funny that you come here and, in your first intervention, tell us that we have constantly been talking, from time immemorial, about the same data. I just don't know if you or you haven't read the reports or you know them or you don't talk to the Royal Galaga Academy. But the studies we referred to one were published in April 2021 and the other few weeks ago. So, either you have the crystal ball and you know what those studies are or -- what we're very afraid of -- is that they obey language planning that has as its sole objective that the Greek disappears from this country and contributes to the language substitution process. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But we're going too far. He doesn't speak to me for any of the IGE's data, he doesn't mention a single mention of the Council of Europe reports, a single mention of the references that the ELEEN experts have just given, a single mention of the data he was putting on the table at the Royal Galaga Academy, and they take out the Pisa reports. Look, I'm not going to enter intellectual barbarity anymore, which is to extrapolate data from a reading understanding exercise and sociolinguistic values. That's a barbarity, it's an insult to intelligence, it's absolutely inappropriate for an education counselor. But it is because it is the People's Party itself that is saying in many other places that this exercise, that extrapolation of socio-linguistic data on the Pisa Report, cannot be done. [[Applause]] But, I'm telling you, what if it looks like immorality to me -- I'm telling you with all due respect, Counsellor -- is that you make this time a correlation between what tolerance is and what it is to defend the linguistic normalization of this country. What's the matter, that people we believe that Greek should be a normal language in this society, that people we believe that Greek should regain use, are we intolerant? Are you making that correlation? [[Applause]] Because if what you try to put on the table with that exercise is that correlation, we are neither before negationism nor before terraplanism; we are, Mr Rodríguez, before an exercise of xenophobia of book which is inappropriate in this Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, of course, when it comes to matters like the linguistic model, look, we brought you here is an interpellation to sit down and talk. Give us a day and a hour. You say: we meet with social agents based on criteria that are establishing the Royal Galician Academy, the Galician Council of Culture, the Galician Language Institute, the public universities of Greece, the Council of Europe, the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, and let's sit down and talk. And from there, from that moment on, you'll tell us what situation we're in. Because if in something we agree -- with legitimate nuances that might probably be between the different positions -- if in something that matches all those organizations, it is in which this decree of shame should be repealed because it is tremendously harmful to the future of the Greek language. And you have two options: to say that here the representativeness of this country is the majority of the People's Party, alienated and aligned with the positions of Vox and ultra-right; or to think that in this country the Galician Academy has something to say, to think that in this country the Galega Council of Culture has something to say... is that the Royal Galician Academy -- I feel you don't like -- it's who you're saying day after day... I understand that when you talk... about language and education, what is shown is that language, very long, but education, little. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] In any case, we are going to questions relating to the data you did not want to enter, Mr Counsellor: social networks, 73% mostly in Spanish; Internet navigation, 96% mostly in Spanish; reading preferences, 24% mostly in Spanish; television, 83% mostly in Spanish. It's data from the Royal Galician Academy. See if you're right to speak with the slightest rigour expected from a counselor and bring data here. English is the only language in the state that loses speakers. And what does Galician Union say about this situation? "The Union will continue to work and engage in cordial bilingualism," Alberto Núñez Feijóo, president of the Galician Union. This is the picture that brings us, Counselor, this is the situation that you are drawing, and so much so you have what science tells you, as much as you have what the academic world tells you, as much as you have what universities tell you, as much as you have what the reports tell you, that it seems you haven't read, that you don't know, or that you don't want to read, but that reality is there. And they believe that reality represents, at least, as much as it can represent its choice for the future and language of this country. What do we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u207	...we propose, Mr Counsellor, that we sit down, with the support of all these organizations, of science, that they get away from negationism, that they get away from supremacism and, above all, that they get away from the ultra-right and the FAES and start thinking a little more about the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u208	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u209	...this language and in the future of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u210	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the interpellation, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u211	Mr. Lorenzo, the Galician People's Party is so in line with Vox... - Lourenzo, I'm sorry... [[A Mrs: Lorenzo, no!]] The Galician People's Party is so aligned with Vox that Vox has zero councillors in Galicia. [[Laughter]] Look how easy it was for me to say that you're much more in line with Bildu! It was so easy to say! They're going weekend with them! [[Applause]] They're going from weekend to weekend! [[Murmurs.]] But, look, does that contribute anything? No, that gives an easy applause, like yours. But he doesn't give us anything, he doesn't give us anything. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'd ask you to watch an important Galician newspaper on October 23, 2020. Here you will see news about the levels of coexistence and tolerance of Spanish Thursdays by autonomous communities -- October 23, 2020 -- You interpret what you want, you interpret it, but a fact: you, who talks about science, data and numbers, you interpret what you want. [[Murmurs.]] Just look at the data and then do it and think about it. The truth is, you, as I said before, are persevering, have your monolithic vision and keep it. They've been -- years old! -- saying that the decree of plurilingualism must be repealed. And I'd ask you a very simple question. Why? And I'd say another simple question: what's wrong with our Thursdays learning Greek? [[Laughter]] They are the first in Spain in official languages, managing the two official languages. What's wrong with learning English, if they're fully competent in English, in Spanish and progressively in a foreign language, like English? Galicia is, within the autonomous communities of Spain, the third by the level, with a marked increase in recent years. Is that bad? Perhaps, for the monolithic and apparently open vision that you have -- but it's very closed -- it's bad, because, perhaps, as I said earlier, on the path of the Olympus, they confuse themselves. Maybe on the way to the Olympus they're confused. And I would also tell you that, coming back to the data -- that you always ask for data -- that Greek is the language mostly spoken by all the Greeks -- it came out a few days ago in a media -- and the vast majority -- with the data, with the latest survey of 2018, which is absolutely generic data from Galicia, not from a specific council, as you told me here -- most of it was in eight of Galicia's councils. [[Murmurs.]] And look, too -- according to data from the IGE -- today, more people speak Greek than five years ago. Liar? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, negationism. Today the Greek language is the majority, we have the largest number of speakers -- IGE data-- Deny them, you can deny them, there's no problem. And I'd also tell him that during the last decade, the decree has been assumed with great normality in teaching. And beyond the two extremes of the linguistic spectrum -- those who want only English or those who want only Spanish -- the vast majority of the Greeks are in line with a system that enables -- in balance, in respect and in equality -- to manage our two official languages, being the best in Spain doing it. They are official data, absolutely official data from the Spanish ensemble -- comparing autonomous communities with others -- and with an almost 100 percent full knowledge of reading and oral understanding, something they cannot say in other autonomous communities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As I already tell you, we have a model of coexistence, and they live both languages in school, just as they live absolutely on the street, except -- I insist -- in those absolutely monolithic visions that want to use the language with other uses to Galeguize; to Galeguize, obviously, and try to get the Thursdays to be nationalists and vote for you. It'll be what they think, it'll really be what they think. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, there's a lot of ways to promote and promote Greek, many ways. We've proven it. For example, we put in place a plan for the dynamization of the Greek in the economic fabric, we put in place a plan for the dynamization of the Greek in youth, we put in place a plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in sport, in the fields of socialization... because you think that the Greek is only learned in class and are certainly wrong. We have one of the major projects, the most strategic ones and those that have a greater future for our language, which is the "We" Project, which is to mix artificial intelligence with language technology. That's a vital project -- vital!-- for the future of our language. Because you're talking about social media. Well, you won't want the government to tell the Thursdays what they have to write on social networks and in the language they have to do it. I understand you won't get to those levels, will you? I understand you won't get to those levels. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I insist, in Galicia language is not a problem, it is not, except in the spectra, in the corners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u213	...of the linguistic spectrum. We are an example of coexistence. If you see some news going on in other autonomous communities, it's really a lack of freedom that reminds you of the period between wars in some country -- really, it's a tremendously serious thing, it's something to take it seriously. [[Murmurs.]] The results support our language policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u215	We still have the highest competition rates in all autonomous communities in co-official languages, and I don't think you can consider...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u216	Ask him, ask him... ask him what happened. Sorry, uh, to get in here in the debate. And end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u217	I'll be in a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u218	But he also spent a minute. You're going to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u219	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. I insist, we are very proud of our language. It's a language that identifies us, gives us cohesion, makes us different and gives us pride...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u221	...but he doesn't stand up to anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u223	And we never used it to separate ourselves or ever to confront...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u225	...and never to use it politically either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u226	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue, now yes, with the seventh point of the agenda, which are the questions to the Government. Question by Da Paloma Castro Rey and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the problems in the judges of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u227	Whenever you want, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u228	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Organic Law 1/2004, of 28 December, of measures to protect against gender-based violence, put forward a step forward of enormous silence and great social and legal transcendence in the fight against gender-based violence, giving a comprehensive and multidisciplinary response to this scourge. One of the most important measures of this law was the creation of a specialized justice system to know a problem as specific and serious as gender violence. These judges with exclusive and exclusive competence in criminal and civil disputes concerning gender-based violence have come to provide a judicial response to a constant increase in this type of violence, or, rather, to a steady increase in these complaints, since, unfortunately, this violence has always been there. But for these qualitatively specialized judicial bodies to be effective and effective, they must be sufficient in number and staff. In Galicia there are two specific cases of violence, in the Coruña and Vigo, and in the rest of the cities of Greece they are assigned to an instructional trial to process these matters on a priority basis, but not exclusively. Well, with these members, we have to deal with this data: 1,649 complaints for gender-based violence in the second quarter of this year, which is going to be 10.4% more than in the same period last year, but, taking into account the data for the confinement by the coward-19, perhaps the situation objectively varies. So we prefer to refer to 2019 data, but it's 2.6% more than in the second quarter of 2019. These data are drawn from a report by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which says that it increases the number of victims to 1,636, that the agreed protection orders have increased to 434 and that 606 judgments have been issued, of which 77,5% have been convicted. And this is a total collapse situation in these trials. The example is the Judgado de Violencia da Coruña, which has 265 criminal proceedings pending at the moment. I understand, Counselor, that for you it is a brown. It's a brown thing to have to come wash their faces to other advisors because of their shortcomings, because I imagine you already have enough to solve employment issues or the inequalities that exist in our territory. But, as you are here today, I have to ask you whether you intend to do something from the Vice-Presidentship, you intend to take action on this problem, and whether you have planned to prepare a diagnostic report through the Joint Committee on the current situation of gender-based violence judges in our territory and if you have planned to look for solutions, because we can no longer stand this situation. Because that's how the victims in this situation... well, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u230	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I'm not here to wash anybody's face. I come on behalf of the Government and I'm sure I'll give, in my words, the same answer that I would give here the vice president first. So the first thing I think you have to know is who's responsible for what you're asking for and, of course, it's not the responsibility of the Government of Galicia or the Vice President or this council. It is the competence of the Ministry of Justice, which, by the way, is in the hands of the Socialist Party. So maybe they need to talk to each other. This article 43 that you refer to organic law 1/2004 determines, precisely, that it is the General Council of the Judiciary... Well, first of all, of course, determines the creation of these judgments of violence against women and then points out that it will be the General Council of the Judiciary which will decide, in your case, to accumulate these functions in the first instance or instructional courts. This on the one hand. And secondly, according to the Law of demarcation and judicial plant, in Spain it is the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the nation that creates the judges, with which nothing can do to the Council of Galicia in this sense. What the Council of Galicia can do -- of course, and it's doing it -- is to participate in that Joint Committee of which you were talking, where the Government of the United States is found and the High Court of Justice is found, and also to establish support and reinforcement measures. These measures are being established today in the trials of gender-based violence in the seven major cities, and there are a total of eight reinforcements and thirteen extensions of days. Even so, at the meeting of the Joint Commission on 8 November, which took place with the representatives of the Council and the TSX of Galicia, they dealt precisely with a report on the situation of those judges and proposed a comprehensive plan of reinforcement for judges with powers in gender violence in the cities; a proposal that the TSX of Galicia now has in their hands and that it will have to transfer to the Ministry of Justice. If I would like to highlight, as I say, the competences of the self-government, another series of measures that we are implementing to protect access to justice for victims of gender-based violence at police headquarters. First of all, the very character of the Galician Union. Since 2013 13 criminal proceedings in the event of death due to gender violence have taken place. We expanded in 2020 with 7 social workers plus the seven crime victim care offices, located at the judicial headquarters. Since 2015 they know that we have the cooperation agreement with the Ministry of the Interior to integrate the point of coordination of protection orders with the Viogen system, the comprehensive system in cases of gender violence. In 2020 there were 3,761 cases active in Galicia. And then I would also like to highlight, on the one hand, free legal assistance through the agreement between this councillor and the Councillory of Justice and Tourism, and also the agreement with the Federation of Associations of Germans of Galicia, to provide an interpreter in the language of signs to the victims at police and judicial headquarters. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u231	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u232	Thank you, President. You have exclusive staff competence. They protect staff, workers and workers from these judicial bodies, which are subject to uncontrolled hours and which affect their personal and family lives. I was talking to him before he collapsed. This collapse, when we speak of victims, of women victims, is terrible and gives rise to undesirable situations such as penance for months of a process considered in the paper -- and I refer to the law -- as urgent, and to the economic and psychological consequences that this has for a victim. But, on the other hand, as I said, it's also inhuman for the workers of these judges, who, except in the two specifics, have to combine this with the rest of the daily work. When a judge enters a case of gender-based violence, the staff must devote the entire morning to this case of violence: to make a statement to the victim, to the aggressor, to dictate the corresponding order of departure or even to prosecute the pretrial detention in his case. This requires almost exclusive addiction and, with existing means, it's not viable. Therefore, I insist, it is necessary to provide the existing judges with more personal, and besides that which form these staff in the field of gender, which is necessary the perspective of gender in the judiciary, and we are seeing and suffering it every day. The global response to violence against women must be effective. Data tell us that 80 percent of women killed by gender-based violence didn't report before. This is terrible and indicates that there is no trust in the judicial system. We have an obligation to improve this. When a woman takes the difficult step of denouncing, she finds herself in a hard process where she has to relive these horrors suffered, facing the bully. For we cannot allow the prejudices of a time-dilated procedure to be added to this because of the collapse in the judges that are going to solve. Or even worse, that this collapse concerns your right to an effective judicial guardianship, saying a resolution hastily according to sufficient instruction or investigation that prevents you from clarifying all aspects of this abuse, or worse, an acquittal of the batterer. Listen to the judicial officers, who have been alerting this situation for months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. To close the question, the Employment and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u234	Thank you. You come here to talk about the problems that exist in the courts of gender-based violence in Galicia, and I'll tell you again that I think you're forgetting the direct responsibility the Socialist Party has on this subject. The Ministry of Justice is in the hands of the Socialist Party, and I'm going to read to you textually some of the investment agreement of the current Government of the nation, between the Socialist Party and the BNG, which signed on January 3, 2020. It was literally said: "Enlarge the number of judges of gender-based violence in Galicia and, in particular, urgently, in Santiago, Lugo and Ourense, in collaboration with the General Council of the Judiciary." Which is exactly what I just explained to you, because that's how it's regulated in legislation. So where is the materialization of that promise that you made of that investment agreement with BNG? Is it in the general budgets of the year 2022? Because I think on November 17, they rejected an amendment from the BNG that was going, precisely, on this line. [[Murmurs.]] So, two years later, they still fail to fulfill the promise and come and ask the Board to do what you don't do and that we have no competence to do. So we're doing what we can do, which is to strengthen the judges that already exist, but we can't create new judges or determine that if you create a specific woman's protection trial and you don't accumulate your powers in an instructional or first instance trial. In any case, if I want to take the opportunity, sit this down, because I think it's more productive to remember the resources that if you're starting up in Galicia, which are many and those that I spoke about in the first part of the intervention, for the protection of victims in judicial headquarters, and also to highlight free justice, but also the different ways that if you have the victims to have information both in the Legal Care and Advice Service that you have on-line as well as on the telephone, of course, from information centres to women and also in the care that you pay through the agreements we make with the College of Psychology and Social Work in Galicia. So, I really think today is a day to commemorate that November 25, so that you too may think of the responsibility of the Socialist Party in Madrid on the issue you are raising and to call together all the public powers of all parties and of all society to eradicate gender violence. Of course, what I can talk about here is the unequivocal commitment that the Galician Union has. There remains, of course, a way to go, but we will continue to add up and take note of the contributions of all and also of theirs, as long as they seek to fight and continue saying no to gender violence. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Daniel Castro García and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the implementation of an industrialization and employment plan for the region of the Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u236	Mr. Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u237	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Just a week ago we watched two memorable acts, the truth, although with a great difference between them. The first was an immense display of the dignity of the people, of the treasure of a region, in the face of promises not fulfilled by two governments, Spanish and Greek; a region where more than fifteen thousand people were gathered, in Burela, claiming that the Navy can and must have a future. It is a comarca, in addition, that completely closed all trade in support of this historic strike, and all despite the fact that the People's Party did not want this strike to succeed, because, if not, they do not explain those minimal abusive services that they have carried out and that they imposed on health, transport or education. But, as you can say perfectly, in spite of you, in the Navy, we prove that we are a worthy people. [[Applause]] And in view of that dignity that we clearly showed, on the opposite side was the People's Party, which also gave him a new level, a new meaning to the term hypocrisy; a People's Party that while denying him the right to strike many workers and workers of the Navy, came in mass to make God know that the Burela. A People's Party that was supposedly supporting marine workers at 12 o'clock and that at 6 o'clock in the afternoon voted against what we've been asking for and claiming the entire region for over a year and a half, which is that there's more industry. And what better way to give industry and employment than with an industrial plan? And so, in this disunity between the worthy and the unworthy, we're already on November 24, 2021 and we're following with an upcoming Galician board, that none of the problems that happen in the country have to do with them and that continues to ignore that Vestas and Alcoa are not the only problem, unfortunately, because there are already more than a thousand jobs in industry lost only in the Feijóo Government and because the problem is also, for example, health, as it has been demonstrated on November 17th, or the problem is also infrastructure, which we don't have and those that don't provide. I mean, the problem is general, and the main problem of all is that the Greek Government is the problem and it's not part of the solution. And so, even though I know they don't like it very much, we ask again today and the times it takes: why don't they go ahead with an industrialization and employment plan of the Navy? why do they vote every time they don't? Why do they still prefer companies to send more than you do? Why do they prefer as advisor to send more from Pittsburgh or Denmark than you do, who is the Industry Advisor? In short, why do they want a Navy and therefore a Galician, more gray, as you always say, and a little bit smaller? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u238	Thank you, Mr. Castro. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Castro, as always, the Galego Nationalist Block intends to come to this House to patrimonialize the values of all the Greeks, which are not values of the Galego Nationalist Block or its head union. The dignity of work is a value of all Greeks. [[Applause]] From that point on, Mr Castro, we can actually talk about the industrial situation of the Navy. And I see that just as the Government didn't understand anything about last week's strike, the Galician Nationalist Block is still in the same attitude. And, unfortunately, the Galego Nationalist Block is still against everything, not in addition to the initiatives that this government is actually moving to support the future of the marine industry. I'm sorry that the Galician Nationalist Block continues in inconcretions. We're being very clear, Mr. Castro. We've been defending the same from the very first moment. The future of Alcoa goes through a competitive electric price and, if you need a temporary intervention by SEPI, this government is supporting it from the very first moment. What is true is that you supported and signed an agreement with the Socialist Party that was supposed to guarantee that electric price. That was signed by the Galician Nationalist Block. And the truth is, neither the Socialist Party nor the Galician Nationalist Block are fulfilling their commitment and their word, which is to have a competitive electric price so that primary aluminium can continue to be produced in the Navy. You're just as responsible as the Socialist Party that Alcoa has no solution at the moment. From there on, we can keep talking. Since the Galician Summit we will continue to defend the same, we are doing so in all the amendments tabled in the Congress of Deputies, which defend the temporary intervention of SEPI, at all. And we'll do it tomorrow too, voting not for lack of commitment to Galicia, to the Navy, to its government partners. You look like you're going to abstain now. Mr. Castro, you have signed an agreement that is being breached. Political coherence would stand against these budgets, and you, unfortunately, will continue to support and govern an alliance with the Socialist Party, which is denying a future for the Navy and which is denying a future for the Alcoa workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u240	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u241	Thank you again, President. Counselor, as it was quite expectable this kind of answer, I come here to bring a little hemerothec. You keep saying it's BNG's fault. Well, go on, I'm not gonna tell them what they have to do. But, you see, maybe those who privatized the factory in 1997 were the PP -- and it's not his fault -- and maybe those who voted against being part of this intervention in the Galician Union were the PP -- and it's not his fault; maybe those who created the energy frame in 1996 and who reformed it in 2013, giving it even more instability was the PP -- and it won't be his fault; maybe -- and it's bad that we weigh -- it's been more than three decades ruling this country -- but it's not about-- but it's nothing to see; maybe it's not even about years and years -- it's not -- it's about governmenting the state -- but it's about nothing to see -- but maybe it's about you who vote against the Industrial Plan -- but maybe it's nothing to see -- and maybe it's about who created the work reform -- but it would probably help something that the ERE of Vesta has to be illegal -- it was also created. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And then the apotheosis of another level of hypocrisy is that today, in the morning of today, they vote against Alcoa's temporary intervention in amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block. Today we were talking about the "jetometer" here. Well, they broke the levels today. And that's because there's a vital difference between the People's Party -- no matter how much Galician, Galician and Galician -- and the Galician Nationalist Block, which is that we're always going to vote the same thing, whether it's in Cervo, whether it's in Lugo, whether it's in Santiago or in Conchinchina. On the other hand, you are conditioned your vote from what they say to you from Genoa or from what they say to you in these philophascist churches that they so much support. [[Applause]] Because you're Galicia in gray, Galicia in small, that says your government can't do anything. [[Murmurs.]] We believe in a big galiza with power and in which the government sends more than any company in Pittsburgh, Denmark or anywhere in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u242	Thank you, Mr. Castro. To close this question, Mr. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Castro, if the future of all the families of the Alcoa workers were not at stake, your intervention would simply say that it moves between comic and falsehood. And I deeply regret that the Galego Nationalist Block permanently brings to this Parliament occurrences or even moves in ambiguity. Look, Mr. Castro, let's make it clear. We've been defending temporary intervention from the very first moment, from the very first moment. And you do it in the amendment you just talked about -- I hope you have the opportunity to rectify, if you consider it appropriate -- because this morning they tabled an amendment requesting temporary intervention. - Language of the Galego Nationalist Block. [[Murmurs.]] In conclusion, that is what his amendment says: "The solution can come from the hand of political action" -- he said -- "from the government that initiates the effective intervention of Alcoa.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Effective! And in the exposition of motives they talk about capitalization. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Castro, if you mean your proposal is to nationalize Alcoa, tell him. And if what they want is to defend what the workers are defending and the Galician Union, which is Alcoa's temporary intervention, tell them so simply. [[Interruptions.]] [[Applause]] While you're in ambiguity, unfortunately... what if I asked you is that you don't come here to lie. If you defend "effective intervention" in Madrid -- and say it in Spanish -- for effective intervention, and if you mean temporary intervention, you can also write it in Spanish, perfectly, and the amendment would also be perfectly understood by everyone. [[Interruptions.]] But you just want to fool people, and that's all right, Mr. Castro. It's good enough to fool people and try to confuse them. If they want to be with the workers, they add up to their proposal: competitive electric price and, in their case, Alcoa's temporary intervention. And as they continue to play ambiguities, unfortunately, the Galician Nationalist Block will continue to have Galicia black, and we will not allow it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u244	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Maria do Carme González Iglesias and two other Members, from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, about the forecasts of the German Government regarding the increase in budgetary credit in the year 2022 for subsidies to non-profit trader associations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u245	You have the floor to Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u246	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. Count. We're going to talk -- I've said textually so that we can make it clear -- from subsidies to non-profit trade associations for the dynamisation of open shopping centres and outposts and subsidies to non-profit trade associations over municipal or federations for the revitalization of proximity trade and the encouragement of consumption through the commercial dynamisation ticket. Well, these subsidies, as the order of the DOG, are aimed at contributing to a more competitive and dynamic business sector. Let us hope, at least, that the commercial sector is much more dynamic than the Directorate-General for Trade, because otherwise they are caught. The summoning of these grants was -- it's being -- a real shame, Mr. Conde. They called late, resolved late and today -- even today! -- they started paying for it. We don't want to think of BNG as a coincidence that matches this question of BNG in the plenary. They were summoned on 28 July and 10 August respectively, when they should have been summoned, as late as January 2021, so that activities can be carried out in time, taking into account that the period in which they can be justified goes from 1 January to 30 October. About October 19th the call was communicated to the entities. And the expense has to be done before October 30 in one case and October 15 in another. I mean, in one of the cases you've been told why they're awarded the grant and how much after the date they have to make the payment. A scandal! Some federations have already announced that they're going to spend part of this year's grant to buy a glass bowl in case the next year is going to be able to go ahead and give you the money. You're going to tell me the deadline has been extended. The deadline for justification has been extended, not for payments or for carrying out activities. As I told you, today, some of the grants have been paid off by the associations, and a month ago, the deadline for these activities has been over. Shame on you, Counselor! At least they should learn from mistakes and call these tips in the next month of December to be resolved in time. Do you think about it? And besides, as the associations say well, this budget split is totally scarce. Are you going to expand, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u247	Thank you, Mrs. González. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. González, the truth is that I thank you for bringing to the situation the aid that the Galician Union is developing in support of the dynamization of open malls and spacious squares. In his intervention I thought I would congratulate this government because in an uninterrupted manner we have summoned this order of help over the past few years. It's a recurring order. The sector knows that there is a clear and explicit commitment on the part of the Government to continue to support open shopping centres and outpost squares, and therefore to continue to develop these activities linked to sales campaigns, with the maintenance of markets and other digital initiatives as well as to develop centralized delivery and home delivery systems. I'll give you a date. You should know that we are from the autonomous communities that we have greater support for precisely these types of associations. In the last six years alone, we have called for aid for more than twelve million euros, above all always of the two million euros a year, and supporting around eighty associations. You should know -- and you should also transfer it in your intervention -- as in 2021 we raised the budget for this aid by 9%, up to 2,250,000 euros. We have increased by five points to a subsidisable percentage in all sections, up to a maximum of 80 %, for centres located in municipalities with a commercial network that necessarily needs to gain in strength. Data is true, data is always data. Indeed, after the end of the warrant period last November 15, almost 60 % of the files are already reviewed in just one week and one third of the total is already paid. That's the data, Mrs. González. And just to have all the information and for this Parliament to have all the information, you should also know and transfer that the Directorate-General for Trade agreed with the sector the priorities of the various orders of the year 2021. I should know. And you should know that it was the sector itself that set these priorities, and that we called not only the aid for digitisation and modernization of trade, but also -- we should know -- we gave priority to the activation of the Active Trade bonds, which were not proposed in the budgets, precisely to help the open commercial centres, the range squares and, therefore, to be in proximity trade. We're setting up these aids and we're going to continue with the proximity trade, despite, as far as I can see, the misunderstanding of the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u249	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u250	Thank you very much, President. I was worried you wouldn't name us, Mr. Conde. Look, I'll tell you something. I want to congratulate you because your sovereignty exceeds everything... what you should be here -- you're listening to the sector -- asking for forgiveness for the processing of aids that are a copy and grabs, as you say, year after year; and yet you're paying for them at the end of November. I don't know if you know, but they already have bills that they can put in next year's aids. They're spending the money they should be receiving from the Directorate General of Commerce next year. And you're here to say that we have to congratulate him? I think he'd come down a little bit from the pedestal where he's probably looking a little good for you, Mr. Conde. [[Applause]] I repeat to you that you have the opportunity to apologize to them, because they are listening to you, and to assure you that the subsidies for the coming year will come out at the beginning of the year, at the latest, and that they will increase that budget. Because look, I don't know if you know it, but a lot of associations and federations couldn't develop their activities, because they didn't have the money to do it, because even if they wanted to ask for the money, so they could ask for a policy -- and you know -- they have to have the grant resolution; if they don't have it, bank institutions don't give them the money so for the good ones. And we're talking about non-profit associations and federations that, in the current crisis of trade, are not backed up by cash. They've had unpaid workers for almost a year -- yes, yes, Mr. Count; they're listening, think what they're going to say --, and in full crisis they've been abandoned to their luck by the board of Galicia; you, who fill your mouth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u251	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u252	...saying they support trade. You have a chance to apologize, Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u253	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. To close the question, the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs González, in fact, we are one of the most supportive governments that moves to open malls and outposts throughout Spain. That's an objective data. But it's more, even if they don't like it, we're constantly consensing all the measures with the sector itself. And that meant in the year 2021 consensualizing with the sector the priorities in the various aid orders and thus also giving them the assurance that, indeed, that aid order would be called up and that they would therefore be able to provide such aid for the different activities. [[Murmurs.]] So, Mrs. González, I think what should move the Nationalist Block of Galicia is whether it's really with small trade or not. I'll tell you that, of course, you now come here to say that you are the party of itself to the proximity trade, and that's what you intend to move out, but I, as you're listening to the proximity trade, remind you that in this Parliament the Nationalist Block Galego voted not to the proximity trade and I remind you of the resolution voted in this Parliament that said textually, "You can develop a plan for the digital reactivation and adaptation of the small and medium-sized trade with the aim of improving your competitiveness and maintaining your employment." [[Mrs. González Iglesias speaks words that are not perceived.]] You want to tell me you don't agree? Because they voted no, Mrs González. So, this is about moving that you're with the little trade outside and here voting that's not the political hypocrisy of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] From that point on, Mrs González, what I can move you to the proximity trade is that, in fact, we will continue to collaborate with the associations of the Greek traders and complement your resources for the actions of promoting the Greek trade, fulfilling the regulations and the Grants Act, which, as you should know, must logically assume in the development of these aid orders. And the sector knows it perfectly well. Therefore, attempting to bear the responsibility for paying the payrolls of the associations to the Galician Union is simply another political hypocrisy on the part of the Galician Nationalist Block. Next year, Mrs González, we will maintain support for the association movement, we will maintain support for the Galician Trade Federation, the trade dynamisation ticket and, of course, we will maintain support, Mrs González, and the aid for open shopping centres and outposts, despite the vote not from the Galician Nationalist Block to the proximity trade. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u255	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Diego Calvo Pouso and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the claim of the Central Government to establish the payment for use of highways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u256	Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u257	President. Counsellor. This parliamentary group is concerned about the news in relation to the customs on the highways. We were aware that the Socialist Party has committed itself to the European Union to carry out a series of reforms that are collected in the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience so that we can be recipients of the European funds. In particular, on page 127, he prayed: "It is necessary to develop a payment system for the use of the high-capacity rail network to cover maintenance costs and integrate the negative externalities of road transport." It is therefore clear -- meridianly clear -- that it was not a balloon probe of the Socialist Party, it is clear that it is a firm decision of the Government of the Socialist Party and that that commitment of the former Minister Ababa them to be able to reach an agreement with all communities was in smoke. This parliamentary group wishes to express its strong opposition to this unilateral decision by the Government of the Socialist Party. It's not time to introduce fees. That V recovery I was talking about wasn't like that, and the economic forecasts are getting worse every day. If the State needs budgets for road conservation, we propose other kinds of solutions, for example, to reduce the number of ministries or to reduce the number of high positions; in both cases it is a new record in democracy: twenty-three, and over two hundred. In addition, the car sector is a sector that, apart from generating many jobs in Spain and Galicia, is already deeply recorded. In 2019, for example, through the registration tax, there are 616 million euros; through the VAT, there are 4,877 million euros; through the mechanical traction vehicle tax -- in this case for the municipalities -- there are 2,800 million euros; through the fuels, 50% of the fuel price; through the special fuel tax and also the IVE, 21,515 million; through the ITV, VAT is also collected for the car sector. And in addition to this year, the Government wants to raise the tax on insurance premiums from 6% to 8%, which means an increase of 450 million euros. Don't you think there's enough charges already on the car sector to get into the high-capacity pathways again? Once again, it becomes apparent that the Government of Sanchez had it meridically clear. But there's also another reasoning, and that's that we're on the periphery, we're in one of the communities that's on the outskirts of Spain, and this right now, what's going to complicate even more recovery, make sectors less competitive and discriminate Spaniards depending on where they live. Of course, this parliamentary group is not in favour of this commitment by the Socialist Party to Europe and we wanted to know what the position of the Government of Galicia was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u258	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u259	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the German Government, of course, is very concerned by the claim of the General Administration of the State and the Ministry of Transport to seek to impose a payment for the use of buses, a rate per kilometre traveled, because that rate per kilometre traveled by the State highways of course is a price for the economy, a price for competitiveness, and above all at a time when we are focused on the fight against the pandemic and on that economic recovery as a result of the pandemic. We're worried, of course, about the ways. We're talking about a measure through the back door, unilaterally, without dialogue and without transparency, without addressing it or commenting on it with the autonomous communities. The fact is that we are very surprised that the Government of Spain has committed firmly to the European Union this payment for the use of buses to obtain reconstruction funds without informing the Spanish and not telling the autonomous communities anything. We're also concerned about the absence of a heel. The autonomous communities have no information at all and, of course, there is a lack of talent. I think it would be the least -- from institutional loyalty, which is a basic principle -- at least report on a measure of so quiet, when we have these sectoral transport conferences to deal with matters with the Ministry of Transport, because they address other matters that are less important than these. No proposal has been put forward that we can debate, speak or address. And, of course, we're also worried about the background. The fund is an aggravating to Galicia, to our peripheral situation, also because of the dependence we have on infrastructures; infrastructures such as highways, which have arrived much later than in other territories. Therefore, the impact is much higher in Galicia than in other territories, and that rate per kilometre has passed since it makes us more peripheral, makes us much more distant from the rest of the territories and condemns us virtually to disappear from European markets. I think anyone can understand that. This euro/kilometre tariff makes Galicia condemned to European markets and favour territories such as Catalonia or the Basque Country, which are much closer to the European Union. Maybe that's what the Government of Spain wants. I should clarify. We're also concerned about that impact. We have some more expensive highways with rates, AP-9 and AP-53, and the latter without any bonus. So it's a situation that has a lot of impact. And they worry about inopportunity, they worry about us, because it's not the right time when the light is on the clouds and when the fuel is fired. Of course, we are concerned about the ways, the lack of a heel, the aggravation and the impact of this measure that the Government of Spain wants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u260	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u261	The truth is, Counselor, there's enough significant data. You see that for a person who buys a car in the urban category, a Seat Ibiza, 100 horses, gasoline, with an estimated cost of 20 thousand euros, if we calculate a useful life of ten years, we'll see that over these ten years the vehicle owner will pay four thousand five hundred euros in taxes, and this without taking into account the fuels. I mean, because of having the car just stopped in the garage, it's going to pay four thousand five hundred euros for ten years. Once again we saw that the measures I had planned to carry out the Government of the Socialist Party were hidden. They were hidden and, if it doesn't get to be because you're getting to know that plan a little bit, we wouldn't know exactly what they want to do. And it is important that we know that this is also not an imposition of the European Union, but it is a commitment by the Government of the State to receive the funds. You could have committed yourself to any other measure, but you thought it was appropriate to commit yourself to getting paid for traveling by the highways. And it is also important, Counsellor, to know what the position of the rest of the parties is, because it is really curious that, in this situation that is taking place with this warning we have before, it seems that the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Party are totally silent and that this issue does not affect them. It's funny, God knows why. [[Murmurs.]] They seem to value saddles much more in institutions than other things. But, well, it doesn't surprise us because we're used to the Nationalist Block Galego saying one thing in the morning and another in the afternoon. For example, today your Member at the Congress of Deputies, Mr. Rego, has already said that "Galiza will be sooner than later a free and sovereign republic." Welcome to the block of all time! [[Murmurs.]] Welcome to the block of all time! [[Applause]] You can be sure that both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party will not ask about the fees, Counsellor, and will not ask about the fees because at the bottom they agree with that state government agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u263	...so that we all pay for traveling by the highways.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u264	Thank you, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u265	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u266	Thank you. For the closure of this question, the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u267	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. If it were the PP, it would be the second knife, surely. But in any case, I will go to the honourable Member's question. Mr. Calvo, of course, Galicia cannot accept any formula that increases its trouble. Galicia cannot accept formulas that make us more peripheral, that draw us closer to the rest of Spain, that bring us closer to the European Union and that make us more aware of this situation in the corner of Spain. Of course, it's a very quiet measure. I wonder if the Government of Spain has made certain reflections. What is the situation in which the German milk sector will remain with this measure of payment per kilometre for the use of highways? Multipliering that to transport costs will certainly not be competitive and we will condemn it to disappear from European markets. And it's very different from Bilbao than Viveiro. So it's a measure that we cannot accept, and above all that is sold to us as a measure of territorial balance. And others shut up. The truth is that this payment for euro/kilometre use by state highways, which is intended to sell to us as a measure of territorial balance, seems incomprehensible and unacceptable to us. Another occurrence we saw yesterday is that the Government of Spain also wants or has the idea of deploying urban beaches to enter the cities. Of course we're surprised too. It's another perfect excuse to lower the taxpayer's wallet and also to have more income in the Spanish Government. We're talking, in any case, about the imposition of charges on the buses, which is detrimental to Galicia and, of course, disincentives the settlement of industries and companies in our territory. It is a way of discouraging business and industrial activity in Galicia, which we cannot afford, and especially at this moment. It must also be borne in mind that imposing such taxes on the use of the maintenance of buses is, of course, amplifying the tax burden. And there's the data, too, of what's already been done by the transport sector, as you said, and that will also affect road safety. It must be borne in mind that this is a measure that will affect road safety because it will force traffic on conventional roads. Secretism surprises us, and lack of transparency and lack of dialogue is also highly worrying and above all unjustifiable. Of course, there is a lack of an important heel, and of loyalty. And that they are based on criteria of equity and equality to sell us this measure of course seems unacceptable to us. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u268	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the work and programmes being carried out in the Greek school libraries
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u269	Mr Ovidio Rodero Tato, of the People's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. The libraries keep books and facts, as they will guard today's speedy farewell to the moderation promoted by Ana Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] In the morning Mr. Néstor Rego said that "Galiza will be sooner than later" -- as Mr. Diego Calvo said -- "a free and sovereign republic." And the first proposal we had in the afternoon, this afternoon, is the one that I also proposed the imposition of the Welsh for that republic. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] In fact, libraries are educational tools that contribute to promoting reading and the students' access to information and other resources for learning other areas and subjects with the objective that students can be trained to develop a true critical spirit -- I insist, that they can be trained, because with the new decree it seems to be equal training -- and to develop a true critical spirit, indeed, such training is needed. Because training, the culture of effort and work are the key to a true critical spirit. Without knowledge, even if you have a lot of critical spirit, the only thing we can have will be a good charlatan but never a free student. Therefore, for this parliamentary group, school libraries have contributed to awakening in the student the interest in knowledge, the interest in discovering new things, the interest in encouraging participation in new activities and initiatives; initiatives such as the School Library Improvement Plan, reading clubs, the inclusive library or travelling backpacks, among other measures grouped into the LIA Plan, which helped school communities take advantage of these spaces as educational and pedagogical innovation resources. The Council of Culture has been investing in these educational resources for years and promoting its implementation in educational centres throughout the territory of Galicia, especially in rural areas. This parliamentary group understands that the school library plays an interesting role in the pedagogical process, but it also contributes to revitalizing educational practices and the cultural life of schools. And it also contributes, in some ways, to providing new opportunities for the use of these multiple resources and also to improving progressive autonomy in learning. All the above, Counselor, we want to ask you what jobs and programs are being developed in these Greek school libraries. Nothing else, thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u271	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, within the multiple links that make up the value chain of the education system, one of the most significant and one of which I personally am most proud, but I believe that the whole educational community, too, is that of the school libraries. And that's for a basic reason that you could sum up on a comparison of what libraries were when some of us were younger, when we were at school and we were going to schools, schools -- a large majority of Members have similar ages -- and at that time libraries were simple book containers, they were places where we were just going to study at a table and sometimes they were places of punishment; they punished us at libraries. Today it's just the other way around. Today they are the heart of many educational centers, of many schools, of many institutes. They are real accelerators to educational innovation, to work on projects, to make it available to families, parents, mothers, society. And all of this materializes into a tremendously positive result in everything that has to do with the activities associated with the library, mainly reading. From there we also have in recent years increasing indices of variables that are linked to reading, to reading comprehension. And every year through the PISA reports we see how they're growing up in Galicia at a rate I think very positive. Every year, there's a series of libraries that exchange experiences. Some 60 people are involved. Last Saturday we had the opportunity to repeat it in person, last year was digitally, virtually. And it shows itself, with the experiences and exchanges of information that the professionals of the education system who work in libraries, the importance they have and the positive dynamics they've been performing in recent years. Clearly progressive success is not the result of chance, it is the fruit of the work of the professionals and it is the fruit of a number of lines of work, a series of plans that over time have been strengthened and generated a line of work assumed by educational centers and teachers. Maybe the two main plans are, on the one hand, the Plambe and, on the other hand, the LIA. The Plambe, which is the school library improvement plan, is a reality that year by year. We're almost in 730 crowded centers, increasing 27 this year. And the LIA Plan basically what it does is to equip materials and convert into creative laboratories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u273	Thank you. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u274	...in laboratories for innovation these centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u275	There's another shift after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u276	Finally, we have a very positive dynamic and in the next answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u277	Thank you. Next, next.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u278	...I'll just specify the data. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u279	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor, for transferring to us information that we consider relevant to this parliamentary group of important work that is developing the education community of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is Spain's third community in reading competition. The Greek girls are the Fridays worldwide in reading competition, since they are shared with Denmark, Slovenia and Korea. Ladies and gentlemen, the English girls are also the first in Spain in reading competition. These are data from the PISA report, which is the largest and most influential international educational evidence, which measures the knowledge of mathematics, science and reading of students at the age of 15, a comparative X-ray involving the most important 79 countries in the world. It's data that once again ratifys the quality and equity of the German education system. But every time the more rigorous studies that exist speak well of our educational system, there are parliamentary groups who are particularly disturbed and do everything possible to discredit them. They're the same ones that only give credibility to the surveys that they're responsible for their union friends. The truth is it's a lamentable maneuver to try to discredit the PISA tests when they don't favor their results. Mr Counsellor, this parliamentary group wants to bring a congratulations to the entire educational community for these excellent results. We want animals that you continue to implement new measures and initiatives in favour and to promote reading, because the education system must be constantly evolving, which requires new measures and activities to be implemented. So, to finish, we'd like you to expand a little more information on the work being done under the LIA Plan. Nothing else, President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u281	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I was saying, school libraries today are a cause for pride for the schools themselves and for the educational administration. The last few years have been characterized by a progressive collective improvement of the libraries themselves, which have become one of the drivers of educational innovation, collaborative work, research and collaboration. And obviously, behind it -- I was saying -- there's a great job for all school library officials, but there's also a proper planning behind it. I've already given the data from the Plambe and now I'd like to talk about the LIA Plan. The LIA Plan is a plan that began in 2010. In this first LIA Plan, from 2010 to 2015, what we did was to integrate all the actions that existed by the board, or other departments of the Public Administration, in the field of libraries, into a vector with an orientation, which was to improve the skills of reading, writing and linguistic skills. You have just given tremendously significant data, of which you are to be proud as Greeks. This LÍA Plan also had a continuation in 2016-2020 with a second phase, which led to an investment of fourteen million euros, where it is also considered as a basic tool for collaborative work and where it began to talk about a series of specific projects aimed at overcoming families, the collectives of the boundaries of the educational centers with the library. There's the travelling backpacks, there's the reading clubs, there's a tremendously interesting project like Radio in the library, which for students is a great experience as far as learning is concerned, breaking certain taboos; creative libraries. Finally, a series of projects that turned libraries into a lab of ideas where the student learns to do. And it's a tremendously significant thing because, in addition, curriculum development is materialized in different actions in this field. We have now, about to finish, the third phase of the LIA Plan. This third phase of the LIA Plan is going to give rise to a project, the LIA Plan 2022-2025, where we're going to update the basic projects in libraries -- that is, everything that has to do with the improvement of the library in rural centers, the creative library, the inclusive libraries. Finally, to improve the presence of school libraries in those centres that are not yet within the Plambe -- we want to reach 100% within the school libraries -- and also open them up to society, in the sense that the school library is a point of convergence, be a meeting point between families, teachers, children, children, and they can develop collaborative projects around them, and they can contribute all of this, within the current pedagogical methods, to consolidate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u283	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u284	...this change of perception that I said at first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u286	That they cease to be places of punishment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u287	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u288	...to be places of educational innovation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the measures of the Union to redress the discrimination of deaf people in their access to inclusive education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u289	You have the floor, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u290	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counselor, this question we have transferred to you requires your utmost attention and also empathy. As this course progresses, since last September, it has been increasing the evidence of a discriminatory reality with deaf people in the Greek educational centers. Day after day we've been seeing the spread of complaints from families caused by the lack of sufficient resources in schools and our institutes, which is depriving their children of the necessary educational inclusion as deaf people who are. Yesterday we had the opportunity to escort them to the gates of this parliament. Families and groups of deaf people denounce how every new course begins a exhausting and unfair hatred: that of claiming the educational accompaniment of sign-language interpreters throughout the entire educational day, a resource that -- we don't escape anyone -- is fundamental to ensuring, on the one hand, the learning and acquisition of competences and, on the other hand, something fundamental like the socialization of deaf children in their educational environment, between their partners and teachers. A demand for educational attention submitted to an unjustified repetitive process, for nothing can solve the deafness. That is, a student or a deaf student who joins an educational center will maintain this situation throughout their entire schooling, after-school course. We do not understand why it can explain the inability of the People's Party to understand it and to act accordingly by programming an organization and forecast plan adapted to this reality. The limitation of support time by a sign-language interpreter, along with the limited presence of a professor of therapeutic teaching and hearing and language with language knowledge of signs, is causing suffering in students and families -- not forgetting that many of these families are family units with all their deaf members -- is generating problems of conduct, lack of care, school failure and, consequently, exclusion of the deaf student from their fundamental right to education. In the face of the persistence and repetition of this demand by families and the lack of response to them, even to letters addressed to the Government's counsellorship, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego have moved to you, Counsellor, this question: what measures do you plan to implement urgently and programmed the Government of the People's Party to redress the serious discrimination of deaf people in their access to a quality and inclusive education?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. To answer this question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u292	Thank you very much, Madam President. I appreciate the tone of the honourable Member, but I cannot share such an interesting and disproportionate speech. I think in matters like this, you have to have, as you said, maximum empathy, maximum sensitivity and maximum respect, whatever order you want. And look, if for some reason this administration has highlighted in recent years, it's to put as one of its flags support for diversity and support for students with special educational needs. In Galicia we have -- and I think it's a pride and we must be proud of it -- the most inclusive educational system in Spain. That's not what a politician says. That's the reports that assess this reality at the interautonomic level. We have 93.6%, almost 94% of students with special educational needs integrated into ordinary centres; the average of Spain is just over 80%; almost fifteen points more. We don't share, we can't share, whatever you think of as discrimination or serious discrimination. We can understand that some families, some specific cases, may feel some frustration, some confusion or that the administration's response does not satisfy the idea that these families may have. Now, I think it's a great irresponsibility to take everything on one side or question the work of thousands, thousands of professionals (PT, AL, caregivers, sign interpreters -- more than fifty -- ) who play their role with a high delivery within the Greek education system. As far as you're concerned, this administration is very clear on how to proceed. First, with protocols. In this case, we have an education protocol for deaf people. Second, with specific agreements with the collectives, in this case of deaf people, and with the federation itself, to get to where the administration does not arrive. And thirdly, with resources. All of this with a clear and comprehensive vision, where the most important is the attention that those students who need it most. We're talking -- as I said -- 50 sign interpreters. All reports, which are positive by professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u293	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u294	...to provide human resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u295	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u296	...including cases of deaf people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u297	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u298	Thank you, President. Counselor, your Galicia is so limited, so narrow and so small that it prevents them from seeing the whole of a much larger Galicia that exists and is real. [[Applause]] The problem is not the resources or the professionals who are there, the problem is the ones who are not in the centers and who prevent socializing and communicating deaf children. That's the reality. Let, please, you turn deaf ears, listen -- you who can, like me -- and talk to families. Give them answers to their families, because they're waiting. [[Applause]] And, above all, they govern, please, for diversity, because that's the real and different Galicia where we have to put the resources to meet in its entirety. Look, Olalla's a four-year-old girl. He started this course at a 5th School of Child Education, and he could communicate with a sign language interpreter eight hours a week ago at his educational center. Thanks to family pressure and social pressure and mobilization, the board decided that the attention could be extended to 19 hours. Olalla follows six incommunicado hours of twenty-five teaching hours. That's the answer or that's the merit that Mr. Counsellor has just said it belongs to Olalla. What's your concern, Counselor? Guaranteeing the right to a truly inclusive education or simply matching the balance of their accounts? What is the preference as advisor and this government? We ask for rights, not privileges. The deafness is not an intellectual diversity, but a functional diversity, and there is the language of signs to communicate with us. That's what families demand. They don't demand privileges or much less, always conditioned, they demand a basic right. They have to change this usual practice that characterizes the People's Party of working for linguistic deprivation, which is how experts qualify it, when the communication of deaf people is not facilitated; they deny the existence of interpreters in health care. We have already seen how blatantly a parliamentary agreement on 25 February this year fails. It follows a course of course the attention schedule with sign-language interpreters for children and deaf children. [[Applause]] They have a serious language problem -- we've already confirmed it here today -- beyond the only hegemonic in their head and in their little Galician. On the one hand, they deprive themselves of learning German, and on the other, they deprive themselves of learning through the language of signs. It's a long time for them to abandon their policy of exclusion from public school and engage in truly equal education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. To reply, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u300	Mrs. Complaints, after listening to you, I don't know if you insinuate that decisions in this area are arbitrary decisions, whether they are made by the counsellor or by the deputy politician, and that you don't take into account, in all cases, the reports of the counsellors to make the necessary and necessary decisions. If you say that, I'd only talk to these professionals and tell them, look, they have to do something, because you don't believe them. As far as I was concerned, there are no arbitrary decisions here. Here are protocols, which set educational response frameworks, there are agreements with federations, with collectives from different fields of attention to diversity, and there is a resource allocation, which is done on the basis of reports -- let's say -- specialized provincial units of specific orientation. They're not arbitrary. Perhaps, in some cases, that report to the family doesn't like it, it could be, or that the family has a different perception than the experts suggest, it might be. Now, let us say here that we are insensitive, as a People's Party and as a Government, to this situation almost leads to immorality, because we have the same sensitivity as you, don't doubt that. [[Murmurs.]] And you raise everything more, more and more. It's not having any more, more and more. What we have to have is what we need and what the technical reports tell us that it's necessary to put it in place. [[Applause]] We have made it very clear that educational attention to students who need it most, to students with special educational needs, is an absolute priority; I have already told you the human strengths that work in this field. You, within Spain and within the most advanced regions of Europe, look for an educational system that has such a high number of professionals dedicated to integration and attention to diversity. Find him, because he'd probably take a surprise. We, as Administration, have to respond to these needs. The way to give it to them is very different, and sometimes it doesn't match what families want, or what families want, with reality. But, in this particular case, apart from sign interpreters, the Administration provides the educational centers of FM station, magnetic loop amplifiers, professors specialists in hearing and language, PT, sign interpreters... and this is always done on the basis of needs. There are nearly five hundred deaf students in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u301	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u302	...that they receive the attention that the advisor's technicians receive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u303	Thank you, your time is up. You got it. Thank you. We made a mistake and went back to the previous question. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the situation of vocational training in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u304	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u305	Thank you, President. The Galician Council of Education, through the Council of Education, has accredited a clear commitment for vocational training, as can be contrasted through the various initiatives that have been developed throughout the years of President Feijóo's Government. The offer of professional training qualifications in Galicia has earned prestige and has also won and improved the job integration expectations of the student. Today we can say that, thanks to this effort, the growth trend of the enrolled student could be reversed, to the extent that the FP enrolments exceed those of the bachelor's degree, as is believed in the survey on the current situation of education in Spain, developed by Educa 2020 and the AXA Foundation. This survey shows that most families in Spain have a negative image of FP. More than half of the parents and mothers of Andalusia, Aragon, Castela-León, Madrid, Valencia and Basque Country do not welcome vocational training. In other words, the mean of autonomous communities with the worst image of the FP is 57,5 %. Faced with this situation, they are Extremadura and Galicia, where most of them have positive opinions about vocational training. In the case of Galicia, 53% of families consider that these studies provide good work opportunities for students. This study also shows that 44.6% of participating parents considered that vocational training offers greater job stability, compared to 26% of the rest of the autonomous communities analyzed. This data attests to the good image and a greater social consideration of Welsh vocational training, which effectively contrasts with the number of students enrolled. In the past, the central government has announced the development of a new state law on vocational training, and the productive sectors and society themselves are focusing on the need to modernise and further develop the supply of cycles and modalities of these teachings based on the labour needs and on the new profiles demanded. This parliamentary group believes that it is necessary to know the current situation of vocational training and the work it is developing in order to further enhance these teachings. So we'd like to ask what is the situation of vocational training in Galicia to deepen on the path of boosting these lessons in the next courses. Nothing else, President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u306	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, just as Galicia has been able to change the perception of the usefulness of school libraries in recent years, it has also been able to change the perception and usefulness of vocational training. I like to say that in recent years vocational training has experienced a true silent revolution, a radical change in social perception. Today, to talk about vocational training is to talk about an education of absolute prestige, connected with the productive sectors, with a great social demand, with a great capacity for employability and with a constant ability to promote innovation, with possibilities for high employment inclusion. This progressive and growing prestige also prevails with growing confidence on the part of families and students who are undergoing vocational training, who understand that learning at the different levels of vocational training (basic, higher and medium) or the so-called masters will be useful to their working life and their full inclusion in the world of work, as well as in this case for the productive sectors, for companies, who see that vocational training has the capacity to train well future professionals, who can provide to the world of business, the world of work, their knowledge and their knowledge. I think, in this sense, there's data that makes it clear and certify what we're saying. Perhaps the most significant indicator is the increase in the enrolment of vocational training since the 2008-2009 course, since the current government began working in this field. From that moment on, we've increased by almost 70 percent or the student. We have passed from thirty-four thousand eight hundred to about sixty thousand students; that is, we almost doubled the number of students. But if this data is a solid, tremendously solid data, it's more solid employability, where we spent about 50 percent at that time to almost 85 percent, in general, and if we talk about dual FP, we're talking about high percentages of work insertion. There is also information about the progressive prestige of vocational training. One of them is the center where it is held. We provide vocational training in 216 centres, 25 basic FP titles -- fundamental to basic FPs for the integration of students with more educational needs -- 47 of the middle grade, 77 of the highest grade and 13 courses of specialization or master. We have a lot of indicators that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u308	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u309	...speak of an unprecedented quantitative and qualitative leap -- as I said -- in trust...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u310	Thank you. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u311	...and in the growing prestige of vocational training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u312	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. This People's Parliamentary Group also believes in the many possibilities offered by vocational training in our Community. We are aware of the effort made by the Galician Union in recent years to increase -- as it was saying -- the cycles and the number of students following this type of educational offer. And, in addition, I would like to value a data that you just gave here today: that increase of almost 70% of the number of students enrolled in vocational training. The truth is that this determined commitment to vocational training makes the Greeks today view this training offer as a guarantee of employment, both in the future and in quality, with training that adapts to the characteristics of each region's productive fabric and ensures the realization of professional practices that bring the student closer to the reality of the company. A vocational training -- as you also announced -- that opened a new line of work a few years ago by implementing dual vocational training, which is developing in our community in collaboration with the active participation of the Galician business fabric. So, counselor, to finish now, I'd like to know if we can expand the information on this new mode of dual vocational training in our community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u314	Thank you, Mr. Roder. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u315	Thank you very much. He finished the previous intervention by talking about the offer in cycles, of the different titles that have vocational training. There is also another series of data that I believe are very significant to understand the growing social prestige and the progressive confidence of families and businesses in the field of vocational training. Obviously, it is not a result of the fact that almost in a decade pupils are doubled, nearly double job insertion and this prestige is generated, drawing a stigma from the past, and the confidence of the whole productive world and families. Behind it is a serious, ambitious and very rigorous work that has allowed us to create and have a series of tremendously positive indicators in Galicia. For example, we have twenty-three integrated vocational training centres. I remember in this House how it questioned the creation of integrated vocational training centres. We have twenty-six business nursery, almost sixty-five multilingual cycles in FP, and we are of the first autonomous communities that we made multilingual cycles in FP, which now the power state, but we were the pioneers to do it. As for your offer of dual FP, today is one of the most solid strategies of short- and medium-term vocational training. We're talking about a very remarkable increase in recent years that has led us to talk about 163 cycles in which about 2,000 students are formed, with an employability almost 100 percent. I also remember how the initial experiences of dual FP by the Galician Union were bitterly criticized in this House. prestigiousness, quality and work integration are synonymous with dual FP. As I said, we're talking about a very high level of integration, a growing interest on the part of the business fabric and a training that combines, on the one hand, education in the school, in the classroom, with training in the company itself, where the student comes into contact with the world of work. From the point of view of employability, this has a capacity to move on high. Evolution has been tremendously positive -- I've already said it -- 163 cycles, a great implication, in this case, of the business world, and there are 571 companies working in the field of dual vocational training. Some of them, the larger ones, are able to have a single cycle or to give out and train the twelve, fifteen or sixteen students who may be in this cycle, and in other cases, it is a cycle that is formed by the aggregation of microenterprises or smaller companies that can take one, two or three students to train in this field. And besides, we can say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u317	...that dual vocational training is a real training...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u318	Yes, I'll explain. Sorry, it took me a minute to set the watch. It was my fault.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u319	I'm done. If you let me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u320	No, it was my fault, I put it a minute late.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u321	If you leave me five seconds, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u322	Finish when you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u323	I also want to say that this is an authentic dual vocational training, because the involvement of the company is absolutely real. The student has an economic contribution and no government subsidizes the companies to have these students.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u324	Thank you, I think you understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u325	I think the double interest is clear, and, of course, it's more of a serious and rigorous work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u326	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u327	...that has been developing in recent years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u328	I apologize, but it was my fault. I put the clock running when I'd been talking for a minute, but the thing was more or less balanced. Nothing happened. Question by Da Noelia Otero Lago and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the conviction to the Galego Health Service for the denial of health benefits
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u329	Whenever you want, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u330	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We got to the last question. We think it's a capital matter, and it's also important to know what the Government of Galicia makes of a court sentence that condemns Sergas not to comply with and not to guarantee the rights of transsexual persons in our community; to know what the assessment is, in particular, of that sentence and how they also value a Greek, or any citizen, any Greek, if you see the obligation to appeal to a court, to justice, so that they are recognized and met those fundamental rights; rights which, without going further, are covered in that Law 2/2014 of 14 April, by equality of treatment and non-discrimination of lesbian, gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual persons in Galicia. That judgment takes the case, in particular, of Sara Romero. We say his name because, without claim, with his struggle, he has already become an activist with two rulings that come to sit law in this country. And, in this particular case, it is in this sentence in which Sergas, the Galego Health Service is condemned, for the sake of waiting, the delays and the nightmare this woman had to live. After a long wait, following all the steps and all the channels, there came such a delicate moment that their well-being, their health, both physical and psychological, was at risk. So much so that, after waiting and failing to get those answers in Sergas, the endocrine she usually treated Sara recommends to go to private health. Sara, even if she doesn't have the money, decides to borrow a loan to undergo that operation, mammoplasty and a private-health vaxinoplasty. Sara continues with all the channels before she goes to justice and addresses the Galician board to ask her to pay her the amount of €22,500 that changed her life and those who were entitled, in addition, to the catalogue -- as we say -- of public health. After so many years of silence, he first receives the negative from the Galician Union and is already when he resorts to justice. The judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia is very clear: it condemns Sergas to pay that amount to Sara, but it is also important to take into account the content and argumentary of the judgment, which says that it is neither a whimsical nor a capricious decision, but rather that it has waited long enough. And it also reminds the Government, reminds Sergas, that there is a need to comply with the law and that, in the case of transsexual people, in addition, we have to do so in time, because that silence is not an answer and those delays bring directly to people and put their lives at risk. We want to know what the valuation of this sentence is and, above all,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u332	...which they're going to do to comply with that Welsh law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u334	Good afternoon. Mrs. Otero, for the Health Council it is essential to provide the best health care to all Welsh and Welsh people and, if allowed, in particular, to trans people. That's why we assume this sentence, as we do, obviously, with any judicial resolution. But the matter of what we're talking about today, derived from an administrative question -- I want to start by highlighting this -- makes us focus on the need to ensure that these cases don't happen again in our health system. Although it's an obligation to maintain patients' privacy and privacy rights, in addition to meeting data protection regulations, the judgment -- I would say anonymously, but you yourself used the name -- it's public, so we think we can offer some explanation about the content. First of all, I would like to point out that the period of what we are talking about coincides in time with a transition that occurs in the Spanish public health system when the public hospital Carlos Haya of Malaga, the public reference center for the whole system, stops welcoming patients from other regions. At that time, the derivation of these patients to other public and private centers had to be addressed. In this context, the case arose that resulted in this judgment of what we are talking about, in which the reinstatement of the expenditure originated by an intervention in a private centre in Catalonia is recognized; only the reintegration of expenditure is recognized and not another matter. Secondly, I would like to point out that, at all times from the outset, the will of the Health Council was to give this patient the assistance that corresponds to him according to -- as you well say -- the portfolio of services of the National Health System. And that's exactly what she was working on when she decides to intervene at the beginning of January 2017. I want to make it clear -- as I said -- that we took the sentence because that was the will of the Health Council: to give it the health care that specialists had determined for the patient, assuming by Sergas the consequent economic cost. On 31 October 2016, two months before that intervention, it is carried out from the Coruña health area to the corresponding request. A little longer than a month from Health Care, supplementary information is required for the area to continue processing of the file, as set out in Instruction 6/2012, which is based on Decree 1030/2016. The patient adds -- as we said -- to the intervention on January 10, while -- reitero -- if expected to complete the documentation process for the derivation process. A procedure, by the way, twice as extraordinary, for it is, on the one hand, a derivation from a private center and, on the other, from our autonomous community. I mean by this, at all times, the goal has been and it is to guarantee attention to people who require an intervention of these characteristics, because it is also regulated by law. Right now all cases of derivation have been processed and none are waiting for the health care resolution. Thus, 29 people were derived from external private centers in the last five years, and in the Coruña health area a surgical committee of gender dysphoria was established, thanks to which improvements were introduced into the organization. All the interventions that take place, both in the CHUAC itself and those that are derived, go through this commission, which has already valued more than sixty people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u335	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u336	We welcome the tone in which I share that, of course, these rights must be guaranteed in any case. We could simply not be at this point when Sara, after having to undergo that operation in private health, who values not only her endocrine at the medical level but also later, in that judgment, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, when she comes to the Galician Council, to the Greek Government, to claim that amount, these 22,000 euros, receives that response in which it is valued that does not entail an emergency or any kind of risk. There they're making an assessment that we don't share. In any case, to finish, we gave the name not only because the sentence is public but because Sara Romero -- as she said -- became an entire activist. We, the comrade Iria of the BNG and me, had the opportunity to be sharing an afternoon with her and we want to invite this government to know her story and talk directly to her, and even we want to invite educators and educators to know Sara's story, which is the story, at the end, that the laws are about the role. And Sara is fighting at administrative, labor, education, family and health levels so that those rights in practice can be recognized. And finally, I want to say that the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia reminds us that Sara came, acting in good faith -- because that also put herself in doubt at first within the Government of Galicia-- being the only way she could go to get a benefit to which she has the right and which should not be denied by the argument that she did not wait to finish her management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. To close the question, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u338	Thank you very much. I want to insist on what I said earlier. It wasn't a question of indication or support for that intervention. In fact, this patient was to operate at exactly the same center where we were processing the derivation. So there is no problem in that sense, as it has been shown in the following cases. We know this patient. Well, not me, but the people who work with her directly and the people who interacted with her in the derivation process. As I say, it was a matter of not making the procedure that is contemplated, not for her but for all the Greeks and the Greeks when they are derived from a foreign center. That's the point. But, in any case -- I repeat --, if we have to rectify some process, we are in that, and -- as I said -- that commission that was created in the Coruña hospital for this kind of situation thus guarantees it. We will continue with our objective of caring for the health of all patients and, in particular, the health of trans patients. In that sense, we hold meetings with the collective entities to meet constantly the needs and requests. For example, we expect their approach and their participation in training, with regard to health care, sexual diversity, a training that is already being given to Sergas staff and which is very well received. We also work to collect the identity felt in the systems that are used within Sergas, as the entities demand, and also -- as you know -- if you created, at the end of 2017, a specific unit of attention to transsexuality for minors, in this case in the CHUS, which, although it is not mandatory for all patients, is available to those people, patients and families, who want to have multidisciplinary attention. As I said, this unit is intended to be a unit of accompaniment and support rather than derivation of all cases. We believe it was an important step towards homogenizing care throughout the community. And on that line, we will continue to work and, of course, care for all people who require a surgical intervention, both those that can be performed within the Greek health system and those who, by their high specificity, as was the case with this intervention, must be derived from other centers. The best results are, of course, when working as a team, where we continue to work with entities and professionals in improving health care protocols and the trans collective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-24-DSPG059.u339	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. Finish the full here. Good afternoon.
